ParlaMint-DK_20200421130023	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. 171 (Proposal for a law amending the Social Security Code. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 172 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy and the Act on Natural Gas Supply. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 175 (Proposal for a law on interest-free loans corresponding to declared VAT and payroll tax and accelerated payment of tax credits, etc.) in the case of covid-19). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130104	The items listed as No. 2 and 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider this to be a given. The consent is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130115	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130121	Thank you. Tomorrow it is 6 weeks since we at home took the first big steps in the fight against corona, but it feels to everyone as if it was much longer ago. A lot has changed, and the corona is pulling tracks all over the world. We are still standing in an untravelled country, but every day that passes, we are also becoming wiser. We can now see that it was right to act quickly and forcefully when the disease hit and it has saved human lives. The health system has not collapsed, and we have jointly held hands under both Danish employees and companies with historically large aid packages. Where other countries have been forced to shut down all the shops and factories, in some places even a curfew, it is estimated that more than half of private employees in Denmark are still physically at work. A lot of people are making a huge effort to get us through this difficult time, and you in this Chamber gave the government the opportunity to react quickly, as it was most necessary. Thank you! And thank you to everyone in the quite Danish country for lifting a heavy and crucial responsibility. We have now taken ourselves together where we are among the first countries to open up society more. It gets more complicated, and it's more complicated than shutting down, and nobody's done it before. If we lose patience and open up too quickly, there is a risk of a setback, including economic ones, and that is why we must open up controlled and securely. The smallest are now back in many places in the institution and school, and there are some practical problems, but we have to find solutions to that. And in agreement with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, a number of small companies have opened the doors again yesterday, and I think that is something that can be seen in some of those present in the Chamber. In this week we are going ahead with the negotiations on phase 2 of the reopening, and I would like to stress in this connection that Denmark is still in the middle of a health crisis. No one knows when and how it ends. There is nothing I would rather than open up the whole of Denmark again and not least give a hug to all those I miss myself. But here is neither Denmark nor the world yet. We still need to control the spread of the disease and it remains a responsibility for each and every one of us to protect the vulnerable groups. Therefore, we need to test more, both for covid-19, but also for antibodies, so that infected people do not infect, and so that we can again visit the elderly and the sick. Today the Danish Health Authority has changed its guidelines so that more can be tested. Yesterday I had a meeting with all the regions of the country, and they are now ready to test thousands of Danes. We also need a longer-term strategy for, among other things. In Denmark and Europe as well as in Denmark, there is a great deal of work to be done in this area. I think the Corona has reminded us that we need to have more control over critical products and technologies, including protective equipment. We need to be much more self-sufficient so that we can protect both citizens and employees and so that we can be better prepared if we are hit again by this disease in the autumn. I will bring this up as a Danish initiative at the European Council meeting on Thursday. We must also have a plan for the economy that looks further ahead, and we must support production at a time when exports can get cramped. Such a plan must, of course, be seen in stages and actively used to resolve another serious crisis, which we must not forget: the climate crisis. The reopening of Denmark must take place as soon as possible and as slowly as necessary. It is not only about mathematical scenarios, it is also about darering to assume responsibility, because the prerequisite for reopening, no matter what it looks like, is that we Danes keep taking care of ourselves and each other by spritting hands, washing hands, avoiding assembling, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that no one leaves the impression that the danger has been driven over. In other words, hope rests on responsibility, and progress continues to build on the community. But of course everything we do must now be about getting everyday life back as much as possible. It will take time, and it will take patience, and it is not certain that everything will be the same as before, but we will succeed, and I am confident that we will be able to do so in Denmark as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130606	Thank you to the Prime Minister in the first place. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. There is first a question of 2 minutes and then two questions in 1 minute. It's first, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130617	Thank you for that, President. It's nice to be back in here again, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I would like to start by repeating that the resolute and robust decommissioning of Denmark was handled well by the government. There was a clear direction in the government's actions, and there was clear support from a united Parliament and so it must be. On the other hand, I am a little short of this clear direction now that Denmark is still in a very serious situation. There are people who have lost their lives. A lot of people are seriously ill. Thousands of Danes have lost their jobs, and self-employed people have seen their life's work crumble under their noses. Everyday life is turned upside down for most of us, and so the social distance and physical distance are drawing big bills on all of us. There should be no doubt in this that the Left's ambition is as fast as it is at all healthy to get Denmark back to the everyday life we knew before decommissioning. This is where I miss a plan from the government. This is where the lack of plan from the government can create some confusion and doubts and perhaps in the longer term some insecurity. After all, the Prime Minister has said that we are not going to return to the Denmark we knew before corona, and, in line with that or following on from it, the director of the Statens Serum Institute yesterday said that the Danes must count on keeping social distance for at least another year. Therefore, I would like to start by asking the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister agrees that the Danes will keep their distance for at least another year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130812	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421130813	First of all, thank you for the receipt in relation to the decommissioning and, by the way, thank you for a much better cooperation than what is reflected in the public debate on the reopening of Denmark. I would like to thank you for the broad agreement that was made last week, and we are already looking at the next stages together. And it suits us to put aside ordinary political controversy and to do the job. In relation to the statements by the Statens Serum Institut, Kår Mølbak says just as clearly that no one knows what the temporal range of this disease will be. We can do the maximum. look a few months into the future. No one in Denmark or in other countries knows what the consequences will be. What we know in return is that it is a disease that is contagious. It's contagious a lot, and it's contagious the closer we're on each other. And it is clear that until there is a vaccine, we will continue to have to look after each other and show the social mind that lies in it. But I would like to say that if what we are looking into is that there is time before the vaccine is in place and the corona is still gone, then I would urge that we here in the Danish Parliament spend much more energy talking to each other about how we can be together, because there is no one who can endure if we do not hug our father who is sick for a year or the great-grandparents who have grown really old or something else. So if the disease continues to be here and it continues to be aggressive, my very, very clear call will be for us to use our energy together to find ways that we can work and be together without challenging the health issue. In fact, that work has been set in motion, it can be said, here and now, in relation to some of the vulnerable groups. There are negotiations in the Ministry of Social Affairs tonight, and I very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131011	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131012	Thank you. I don't think anyone disagrees with that, and I think it's a wise consideration too. I just didn't get that much smarter about the perspective, and I actually think there are many children, there are many older ones, there are many parents, there are many employees, there are many who sit alone who are insecure, and I think that applies to everyone. But then I think there are many who are confused about what is going to happen. After a very clear, very cash shutdown where no one was in doubt about what was going to happen it was very clear then the government and the authorities come a little with some reports in the east and saw some reports in the west. On one day, we are making an absolutely necessary package of help. We did so on Saturday to extend the aid packages by 1 month. The next day, we can hear that we have to go around at least a year before we get back to normal. This morning there will be a announcement that we will soon be able to reunite 500 people. It was then adjusted to be able to do so at some point, but no more than that. So there's such a zigzag course that I think people get a little confused. I think a lot of people like me are looking for a perspective. So to come to the question: does the Prime Minister have a long-term plan that the Danes can gain insight into, about how we open society and get Denmark back on its feet, or does the government have no plan for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131147	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131148	We are pursuing the plan that we have had all along: 1) to save human lives; 2) to ensure that our health services can handle an outsider really, really intruder and difficult guest; and 3) to make sure with everything we have, to get Danish economy, Danish employees, employment and Danish companies as well through this crisis as possible. In my view, that objective remains unchanged. In my view, we have done very well in Denmark for the first time so well that we are now faced with the task of gradually opening up our society. I have great understanding that people really want to set a date for when we're going through this. No one can give that date! For Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen knows just as well as I do that what is now the responsibility of all the parties in the Folketing is to keep an eye on the pressure of infection, the spread of infection, who is being infected, how many inmates there are in Denmark, how many need intensive treatment, our behavioural changes out there, and how it is practical to reopen. When all these pieces lie ahead of us, we can jointly decide what can be included in a phase two, but of course the goal is to get back as normal a Denmark as possible, but that is without compromising everything we have won, and I hope we will continue to agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131312	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131315	We are in complete agreement on that, and I do not think I have challenged it at any time. I agree with the objectives of the government, and that is also why I miss the plan to achieve the objectives, because it is not there. It is an absolutely crucial task to create greater security, to create greater security, to create a greater perspective for the Danes in an uncertain situation, and right now we are experiencing a little the opposite. That is why I have been calling for weeks for the government to put forward such a plan; for the whole of the official apparatus of people who are good at health and people who are good at economics to be put together and thus to come up with a long-term plan. No one is asking for concrete dates, concrete dates because, as the Prime Minister says, no one can give it but everyone needs a direction. Where are we going? And what is the order in which we have to open up society so that we can get Denmark back on its feet again; so that we can deal with that disease? So I don't want dates. I'm calling for a plan and a sequence. Will the government present its bid on this plan before we meet for negotiations on Thursday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131435	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131436	I would much rather live up to what I have agreed with the parties of the Folketing, including the Left, namely that we do it together. And with all due respect, after all, we are preparing for what we have been asked of the parties, what we have agreed on, namely that we can now, as one of the few countries, allow ourselves to open up. I can hardly repeat enough that the danger has not passed over in Denmark, because it sounds as if it is. We've just done so well here in the first chop that we can afford to open up. What we have agreed with all the parties of the Folketing and thanks for that is that we are now not only looking into a phase two, but also further ahead, so that all Danes, whether it is sports organisations; whether it is business; or whether it is people who have planned a summer wedding, myself included, and other outstandings, can start to look at how things are going. And if things go as we would like them to go, then we first look into one opening, then into the other opening etc. We agreed to do that together. The negotiations will continue on Thursday, and when the parties are ready for this and the work is done, we can present it to the Danes. And by the way, I think a lot of people are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131540	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131547	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introductory comments. I am of the opinion that it was very good that we were able to deal with things in haste when the corona crisis was really realized and settled, and it did, of course, that this Parliament in a very short space of time took a 24-hour stay, in fact, gave the government some new opportunities to act in the situation. It was good that we as Parliament could do it, and it was good that the government handled things well at the time. On the other hand, now that we are standing here in the Parliamentary Chamber, it is no secret that it is important for us in the Danish People's Party that democracy works and is not put out of effect, as it was in fact in various ways at the beginning in relation to the way we normally work. We also think it is important for the government to put up with journalists, as well, when it comes to holding press meetings, not only to speak exclusively and to answer questions that journalists cannot follow up and so on.; then everything must be able to function in our democracy and the rule of the people again, and we, as politicians in parliament, must be able to do our job. That also means that we must be able to hold the government responsible for what it does. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister during this Question Time to explain why she will not run once a week for the use and discussion of the Danish Parliament so that we can have a direct talk about things. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to consider whether the ministers are prepared, at a few days' notice, to stand for consultation and the like. Because we are in a special situation, a special time, and we need, when citizens turn to us as their elected representatives, that we can quickly go to the government and ask: what is this about? Why is this happening or why isn't it happening? What are the guidelines, etc.? It takes a completely different form of opportunity • short-term opportunity • when we can raise things and get answers to things than what has been in force so far, and there I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is the government prepared to deliver the things that make it possible for us in this way to be • can one say the representatives of the government, as we are supposed to be under the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131755	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131756	Thank you for the question. I'll say that when I don't sit down as normal, it's because I'm holding my back and that's why I work best standing. I hope the Folketing is okay with that. A few things: Firstly, a profound gratitude, not only on behalf of the government, but on behalf of Denmark, for the people's regime to have been able to operate so incredibly flexibly and well in the start-up of all this. I have no doubt that this has had a very, very great impact on the fact that we have done so well in the first phase in the fight against corona. However, I want to arrest this with the fact that democracy has been put out of effect. I think that is quite simply too big a word at a time when a united Parliament, and hence a representative government of the people, has agreed to do things in a way that has enabled us to get through the crisis, and in which there is no legislation or measures that simply go out there, but where we have sunset clauses and revision provisions to keep our hands on the exceptions that exist, for example. in parts of the legislation. So I'm going to challenge that. On the question of Question Time/Question Time on a weekly basis, I know that there has never been, even in other crises, so I think that we can use the ordinary tools available. But it is clear that if we look into an extension of the parliamentary assembly, it would also be natural for us to have more opportunities to meet in the way we currently have. In relation to consultation, it is my clear opinion that there are discussions in the UFO on how we have reduced the number of legislative proposals, also some that have been very important to the government, and that the Folketing does so accordingly in the activity, but that there must of course be the possibility of both query debates and consultations and as today the Question Time. We're here right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131955	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421131957	No, it is our clear view that democracy has in fact suffered from this, and rightly so, because there have been things that have had to happen more quickly and things that have had to be adopted in great haste. However, the normal legislative process we have in this House, with deadlines and things to guarantee that everyone can gain insight and questioning and things to do, cannot be said to have worked very well over the last 4-5 weeks and rightly, because there is something else that has been more important, namely speed in combating the corona epidemic. That is why we are so concerned that, when we look ahead, there will be a completely different opportunity for the members of the Folketing to be able to engage in things that come from outside, for example. when the guidelines for our nursing home are being adjusted so that relatives can return to visit. That's one of the things that gets the most into my inbox these days. For example, there was a person who wrote about a dying son who he had not seen for a month now and where the spouse had been allowed to visit an hour last weekend. Well, there are people who are really suffering in this system that we have now. There are all kinds of good, reasonable considerations as to why it is so far. But there we have to have the opportunity to go to the government in the forms we have here in the Folketing and find out how we can achieve some better conditions for these people, and that requires the systems we have in here to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132113	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132114	Two things: firstly, I think that we will just have an overview of how many meetings have actually been held in the various ministries here along the way, so that we can see how many times the Folketing has been gathered, also unconventionally, also with the opportunity to ask. Because, of course, a Parliament must be able to do so. With regard to the second issue, which is extremely important, in addition to the fact that the negotiations are this evening in particular. This question in the Ministry of Social Affairs is therefore important for me to say that as much as I feel for those who cannot be allowed to see their relatives, it is just as important to stress that there is a huge risk if you open up to many people in our care centres. One of the things we can see in other countries is that nursing homes and nursing centres can end up with, I hardly know how to put it, very, very many deaths, and because they are vulnerable groups because of age or disease, there is also reason to be very restrictive in relation to how many people can come in and out of the door. But let's see if we can't find a way together so we can break some loneliness. But it has to be without all of our old people suddenly being at risk of being infected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132228	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132229	But when it happened yesterday, in a way, at least from Kår Mølbak's side, the director of the Statens Serum Institute, that you might have to have this physical distance to each other for 12 more months, it is no wonder that people react with great fear of what it is for a year they are going to see. So, we're talking about a married couple who approached me the other day, an older couple, one of whom is demented and where the wife alone has managed this because the demented one has been on some day offer, some relief that gives you the opportunity to breathe. Now you walk at home continuously 24 hours a day, and it has been right at the beginning that this has been the case, of course, because you handle things quickly. And I am so concerned that we are protecting our elderly in our nursing homes, but with the prospect that it might take 12 months more, such people are desperate for some guidelines to be put in place to make it actually work differently. We would like to take an active part in this, that is to say how it is going to happen, and it is not by the government telling us this at a meeting that the government has called for alone; it is also by the fact that in this house, the Folketing, where we are elected to represent these people, we can take it up according to the usual possibilities we have in this house. And that is what I am appealing to, namely that it will work again and that the Prime Minister will tell his ministers that it will work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132349	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132351	But it has to work and it works; there are negotiations on this tonight. And the desperation of those people can be felt in the innermost part of your life.I'm a relative myself.I have family members of my own that I can't see, which I can't give a hug, which I can't be there for. It's a condition for all of us, but the desperation whether it's due to illness or age we all carry, and therefore it's true that if this disease is going out, we have to find another way we can be together and where we can support the community and presence. I also have to say that we politicians try it over and over again, namely that a single quotation is taken to a headline. One could also have rendered that Kår Mølbak says: "But we basically don't know what the future brings" or "there are many ifs". Perhaps it's a problem in dealing with this disease that one sentence may suddenly be what all of Denmark has to discuss when it's also said that we don't know what the future brings and that there are many ifs. It can have long prospects, this, and if it does, we need to find another way to be with our elderly and our sick and our vulnerable. But the fact that one sentence is removed from an interview, and then that is what everyone has to deal with, seems to me to be poor in the political debate; I think it is worse when there are human lives at stake. Kristian Thulesen Dahl But that's not what I did either).
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132512	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132517	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank both for the efforts and for the cooperation to deal with this very acute situation, which no one had anticipated. I am also happy to be back in Question Time, and it is perhaps a deprivation that has been particularly strong in the Danish Parliament.I wonder if people in general do not miss huging their close than the Question Time.However, it is important as an expression of the slow and gradual reopening of Denmark. On the other hand, I do not think that this has been a weak moment for the people's regime. On the contrary, I think that we have shown what people may be missing a lot on a daily basis: that we have been able to work together to deal with a very serious situation; that we have made agreements where all parties were on board; that we have listened to each other; that we have found ways to solve it and stand shoulder to shoulder and say: this way we deal with it, with safety net during people's jobs, with the postponement of counting rules in the benefit system and elsewhere, which means that people should not be afraid of suddenly losing their income base, even if they are unemployed. I therefore believe that this is an expression of a cooperative and strong government of the people, and that is what I hope we may be able to take with us out of the crisis, that we can act just as resolutely on other challenges that are greater than general party political disagreements. Of course, I am thinking in particular of the climate crisis, which has not, of course, diminished in the time we have fought Corona. One might say that the health crisis here, the corona crisis, is definitely our most acute challenge, but that the greatest challenge for humanity is still the threat of lasting climate change, which all subsequent generations must face with the consequences of. That is why I believe that there is an opportunity to make the way out of the Corona crisis green and thus take initiatives that both pull us towards combating climate change, but also provide the opportunity to create new jobs. Therefore, I would ask the Prime Minister today to say that it is also the Government's view that, before we go on summer holidays in the Folketing, with the extended parliamentary year, we have taken significant climate policy decisions that reduce Denmark's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132725	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132727	First of all, I would like to say that I fully share the experience of what has characterized the Danish people's government, and I think the Danes are deeply grateful that we did not waste any time, either our own time or that of the Danes, on ordinary political bullshit and squabble, but were on the task, and that applies to all I have not been able to tell the difference between old parties, new parties, large parties, small parties, parties to the right or parties to the left. I have seen that all parties have taken huge responsibilities, bowed to each other and found broad solutions. We've made aid packages for nearly 400 billion. kr. Most of that we have done together. We have adopted legislation quickly and in a way that we would normally never do, but because the seriousness really hit us. I would like to sign for this, and I myself am sometimes very puzzled when I see in public that there is virtually no political cooperation; we meet all the time and find solutions for the Danes. As long as we do so, we must accept some of the public discussion, I think. The most important thing is that we solve the problem. This also applies to climate, and that task has not diminished. It may have been helped in this situation because we have also realised that we can create great solutions and that we can meet the challenge with the seriousness and the capacity to act, and I would very much like to see this continued in the climate area. I know it's a strong wish, including... from the Radicals, but also from other parties, that the recovery of the Danish economy, the next steps, will not only be a question of the economy, but will also be the next important contribution to solving the climate crisis, and I fully share that ambition. In my view, the 70-percent objective is completely unfettered; how we get there, we shall be discussing again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132915	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421132916	Yes, because quite a lot has happened since before Christmas we agreed on a very broad majority in the Folketing with almost all parties to set this ambitious objective. However, this has not been done with the Climate Act, although hopefully it will be adopted shortly. Now the first reading has just been postponed, but it is now coming here. And you can see that there is no shortage of calls to get started. Danish Industry calls for us to take decisions that can secure up to a quarter of the commitment towards the 70%.; organizations widely recommend the same. The parties which have provided the basis for the government to join at all a year ago have moved in relation to it, but also parties in the opposition have proposed advancing offshore wind farms. That is why we are waiting for the government to be ready. And I have previously moved in relation to it, even before there was a corona crisis in it, and I am optimistic that we can achieve it, but I would like to have a more firm guarantee from the Prime Minister that the government is ready to make decisions before the summer holiday, which reduces Denmark's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133037	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133038	I can say yes to that. Of course, I can answer yes to that. We must, and there is also time to do so. I still feel that when we talk about the longer-term recovery of the Danish economy, we have to look all around. In other words, perhaps the representatives of the Left have now, in particular, actually thrown themselves in front of the liberal professions and the discussion about it, and I am also concerned with the liberal professions. After all, we have then agreed that they have been able to open up that I actually find that all parties have been preoccupied with it but, in my view, there is a great deal of focus on the whole of Export Denmark. And a world that has been partially shut down, or for some countries completely down, for a long time, can have far greater consequences for the Danish economy than a temporary closure of some liberal professions it may potentially have. But if we do this wisely and in cooperation with both employees and companies, our huge advantage may be that we can make a longer-term recovery of the Danish economy, which has a very, very clear aim for the Production Denmark, which can make some of the green solutions that we can both use at home immediately, but which, after all, will also be sought after in the world. And I think that is the work we must do together now; the aid packages have been negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133204	Sir. Morten Østergaard for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133205	Yes, as you know, the hope is bright green, but I think it got new nourishment from the Prime Minister's clear guarantee that we take climate policy decisions before the summer holiday, which reduces Denmark's CO2 emissions. It is, after all, the question of when we are going to start, and I would just like to say with the experience of the financial crisis that these things take longer than we expect. Well, one might say: well, now we have to wait, and we also need to know how big the challenge is. But the reality is this: there are 72,000 general housing units waiting to be renovated. Are there any arguments for not deciding to start it when we know that two thirds of it is climate screen and energy renovation? You could start that right away. Is there anything to think about in terms of starting to get oil pine and natural gas pine out of the heat supply or setting up more charging stations? So, my appeal to the government is that we do not keep everything waiting for everything, but that we actually get to work on the decisions recommended by everything from industry and organisations to the Climate Council and a huge majority in the Folketing. And we're really just waiting for the invitation to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133317	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133318	Then I'll give it now because I think it's wise. And, in particular, I think it would be wise in the future to focus on some of the tasks that we know are there to be solved, which we want to solve, and which can also have an immediate and good effect on domestic employment. And then there are clearly some more long-term climate policy decisions that we need to have to operate in a world that looks different than it did before the corona. In relation to the haste, I hope in some sense that over the past 6 weeks we have almost 24-7 have been completely engaged in solving the corona task, and it will still cost most of my awake time, including the time for all the people around me. But that does not mean that we do not have room for what we have just given each other hands on now. We must not shake hands on each other, but we do it anyway, but not in the way we do it on the Hjallerup Market; yes, there must be room for us to meet before the summer and for us to make some climate policy decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133418	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133427	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the Prime Minister and, in fact, the government on the fact that Denmark was so quickly and resolutely shut down in order to prevent the spread of the infection. In fact, I would also like to join in the chorus that says that we need to focus on this precautionary principle in the future, so that we would rather take it a little quietly to make sure that the infection doesn't spread than that we were roaring out there. It seems to me that it is part of being responsible to the Danes, and the Danes have shown themselves to be so responsible. So we should pay our respects. I also find it difficult to talk about corona without even talking about a vaccine. The challenge is to develop it. A great many good researchers are doing this right now, both in the public and in the private sector. In fact, we are also learning from this crisis that it is possible to work together between public and private in a very exemplary way, I think. But we will also need to mass-produce the vaccine afterwards, i.e. that we get up in volume. That is why I would really like to ask a few questions about vaccines and the Prime Minister's position on the disposal of vaccine production at the Serum Institute. It was a sale which back in 2004 was considered because then it was also rejected by a political majority at Christiansborg, because the assessment from the Danish Health Authority stated: The Danish Health Authority considers that the optimal way to ensure vaccine supply in Denmark in a pandemic situation will be a national production of the flu vaccine. That is why the sale was rejected. Nevertheless, in 2014 under the SR government, a majority decided to start the sale, and it was then sold under a bourgeois government in 2016 for just 15 million. kr. to a Saudi sheik. Now we're in the middle of a pandemic, I don't think anyone could predict that, but a little like war and terror, it's good to be prepared, even if you hope you'll never need it. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister in this inexorably clear hindsight: Would the Prime Minister have liked to see vaccine production at the Statens Serum Institute not sold?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133645	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133646	I would say that I really think this is going much wider, and that is also what I said in my introduction. I believe that our handling in Europe and among those who can be called like-minded countries has revealed a vulnerability that I believe is unsustainable. I do not want such a large Danish dependent on others, if this situation arises again, or if we get a round two. This is true in a number of areas. This applies to the production of medicines, medical devices, respirators, protective equipment, test equipment and anything underneath that cloak. This does not mean, of course, that there can still be a division of labour. I think it has revealed a vulnerability which I believe is unwise and which I believe is unsustainable into the future. That is also why, at the European Council on Thursday, I will take the lead, hopefully with the support of the Folketing, in order that we will have to be sure, before we reach the autumn and a potential round of two of this, that we have a national, European production, among like-minded countries, that we do not have the same vulnerability. In my view, all the elements that are about securing its people from a pandemic must be included. This also applies to the vaccine issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133808	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133809	I'm glad the PM says that. I fully agree and would like to give a mandate to the Council on that basis. But I think it's all about having the whole discussion, so we're prepared, so we have protective equipment and not just like we saw when it broke out that Denmark suddenly faced a critical lack of protective equipment, because many of the protective equipment we receive in Denmark come from Asia and Asia in advance were challenged about protective equipment. This applies both to protective equipment and to vaccines. Therefore, I would really like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will be open to the fact that, after perhaps the most acute situation, we sit together broadly in the Folketing to discuss whether we could re-establish vaccine production in the hands of the state and how we prepare a national preparedness for similar situations, so that we will not be in a similar situation again. It is not because you can guard yourself against everything in the future, but you can try.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133904	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421133905	The answer is yes. Of course, not only do I want to be involved in discussing it; I also think it would be wise to do so. We have seen some situations, if you didn't know better, you would think you were in a bad B movie with trucks that have disappeared through Europe and developed societies that have fought against each other because aids and other things have been scarce. That simply cannot be done. We must, of course, do this wisely, but we cannot, if a new pandemic or another round occurs, find ourselves in the same situation where strong, strong societies cannot provide protective equipment and protection for their own people and, for that matter, their own employees, for example in the elderly and the health sector. So I think we need to get started now. There is also a potentially very interesting domestic and business policy strategy in relation to getting some Danish production up of equipment that we have not had before, and which is also under way. LEGO is producing visors, others producing hand alcohol for us, some making muzzles. And thank you to the Danish business community for that. But yes, the answer was yes. I could have said it briefly. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134020	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134021	Well, I'm glad. I am both happy with the yes you gave to Morten Østergaard, because climate is also important to SF, and this is where vaccine production is concerned. So that's two yess. I just think, at least when I look at it, that there are jobs in this. For some of Denmark's strengths have been to produce medicines for the rest of the world, i.e. the entire pharmaceutical industry, and then it has been the green industry. That really is our position of strength, and it is an obvious situation to use it in, because we know that when we get on the other side of the crisis, those who get through well are those who have thought the step forward. So I just want to say thank you very much, both for the reaction to Morten Østergaard on climate change. I am also very excited about the response to vaccine production. Do not be in any doubt that SF is ready for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134105	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134106	It is clear that in the question of vaccines I do not think we have the opportunity to go fully into the sales that have been made in the past I think there were perhaps a little more nuances in that discussion then than the one left with an impression of today, and we must then have dug out all the material so that we have a common basis to stand on. However, this does not change the fact that, in the future, we will have to look at how to ensure a greater degree of self-sufficiency, both Danish and European and, moreover, among the closest partners to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134136	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134147	Thank you. In January 2017, this famous Saudi company will take over the state's vaccine production. Before that, we in Denmark had a security for vaccines that were produced here, if a need should arise, also if a pandemic occurred. Life-needing vaccines were not something we should worry about becoming a deficiency. It's not like that anymore. It cost them 15 million. kr., and I guess there was even a rent discount on top of it. So it was in the larger perspective a small amount of money, one might say, that was given for it. Now we are so dependent on partnership with private people. It is more legally complicated, it is more slow and we do not have the same opportunity to boost production when there is an urgent need. In the Enhedslisten we were among very few who were critical of it then, and we called vaccine production critical infrastructure, and I remember that more than often we were looked at with a crooked smile, as if it were a little sweet and cute said, because it was not considered critical infrastructure, but we said so, and we compared vaccine production with our schools and our hospitals and our Danish energy supply, which also sold parts of it during the same period. Now we are faced with a very clear need to ensure the supply of vaccines if it is to be developed and a clear need to have vaccine production in the hands of the community. It was another Social Democratic government that started that sale, and it was also another Finance Minister and another Prime Minister, and that was past, but I think one can say that there is a great need for the new Social Democratic Government to say that with what we know now, it was a mistake, because the pandemic was not a theoretical situation and that we should have had vaccine production in the hands of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134402	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134403	Well, I have two things. Firstly, I am not deterred by close cooperation with the private sector in this respect. I have no idea that we are about to have public factories that make visors or hand alcohol or, for that matter, develop our medicinal products. I would like to say that I have complete confidence in Danish companies as far as this is concerned, because they are world-class and they are helping us right now. If Danish industry had not stepped in, both in relation to creating an air bridge to get massively more protective equipment imported, and if a number of companies had not converted their own production to help us, we would be in a situation now that we certainly would not have had enough protective equipment. So I am not afraid of cooperation with the private sector, and I would also suggest that it should continue and that private companies should produce what we need. On the other hand, what is being said about critical infrastructure and the discussion about it, I am very much in agreement with it, and I also agree with the scope of it in the way the world has developed. Now, of course, we are dealing very much with a health situation because of corona, but it also applies to security policy in relation to infrastructure of a different nature, so the term critical infrastructure is, in my view, greatly expanded in relation to how it was viewed in the past. The risk of buyers or other types of activity entering our critical infrastructure has increased, and what can be called critical infrastructure has to be wider than we have seen in history. So forward-looking I would very much like, and I also think it is urgent, to help not only discuss it, but also to get legislation, so that we protect the critical infrastructure wiser and better both in Denmark and in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134550	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134551	I am very pleased to hear that, because the argument was, after all, when they sold it, that it was a deficit. So it was a very short-term economic decision that was taken and what we can see now is that it potentially has a lot of health consequences and also risks having some long-term economic consequences and that it was simply a deficit that it would pay better to have been driving for some years, so we were sure that the supply was here. Although I think it's really nice for me and many others to hear it as I hear the Prime Minister that it's not a sale you'd repeat today if you were with the same opportunity and that it might even be a mistake, it doesn't make it right again. One could even admit that Bjarne Corydon was a mistake as Minister of Finance, and it would not make it right, even if it would be nice to hear. The Prime Minister, however, has a chance to make things right, so my question is: will the Prime Minister call for negotiations to ensure our critical infrastructure also in relation to our health services, both when it comes to vaccines, the production of protective equipment and tests and, for that matter, the important and essential medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134702	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134703	Yes, and that is also what I said in my introduction: that I think there is a great need for that. We just need to bear in mind that, in my view, it must be both a national issue and, of course, it must be a European cooperation and cooperation with our like-minded countries, because the idea that each country should draw up a vaccine that can deal with any pandemic is, in my view, a wrong strategy. But we must do this together, and we must do it with those countries with which we share our security policy alliance, for example, and this also applies, of course, to the United States and Israel, with whom we share very natural and close political cooperation, for example in the European Union. So we need a national strategy where it makes sense, and then we need a European strategy with our closest allies where it makes no sense to have a national strategy, and the two things have to be linked. Of course, each country should not sit and develop its own vaccine. It would be too expensive, and it would take too long. That's where we need each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134806	Mrs Pernille Skipper for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134807	I very much agree with you on that. Then maybe we could get a confirmation and thank you for inviting us to these negotiations as well. We have a lot to do before the summer break... all important and good... but these are good statements. The problem of leaving the development of vaccines, the production of protective equipment, test capacity, etc. for a private uncontrolled pharmaceutical industry is, of course, both the fact that we can risk not being left with the supply that we need, as we see now, to pay too much money for it, because demand allows them to set the price as they like, and also the fact that if you develop a vaccine and do it in public hands, you can share your knowledge with other countries, both those with whom you have close cooperation and those with whom you have less close cooperation, for the benefit of global public health and not just for the benefit of the profits of a pharmaceutical company. So from this point of view, I think we should enter into the negotiations with a focus on ensuring that it is not just vaccine production that we are getting redressed again, but is also an extension of what we have of control, for the sake of community health in a number of health areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134917	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421134919	I do not know whether, after all, there is a political disagreement underneath this, in relation to the extent to which production can be put out in private. I really do not recommend that we start to have public production of, for example. visors or other technical aids. I am absolutely convinced that our companies can. However, our need to build up stocks so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where we do not have protective equipment is, of course, a political responsibility. There we are in a new situation, because we haven't tried to have a pandemic before, and it may be that there will be a round two. I will certainly not go into the autumn with the message to the Danes that it may come back, and then we will see how things are going. That is actually why I am already here today, and I hear that several people welcome the reporter, that we need to have both a national and a European strategy so that we do not get into the same situation. And, of course, we must also discuss the issue of vaccines in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135016	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135021	Thank you. I should also like to join the Glee Club of those who praise the government for having made many real decisions in a difficult time. I would very much like to acknowledge that and also that we have stood together and found each other. The Folketing has made two large aid packages, where I think we can all say that there are beautiful flowers in that bouquet, but there are certainly also some thistles that should not be there if you had now been in a slightly more ordinary political situation, if I may put it that way. I also think it is important that we discuss it. I also think it is important, even if we are in the situation we are in, that we also have good discussions about when we think something is right or wrong. Sometimes, in the public debate, this is how it can be achieved, I think, misunderstood, that if we do not agree on everything, we do not stand together. I do not agree with that. You can stand together on something and still disagree. I think that, in fact, is just democracy and the rule of the people. But now I'm also thinking, even if we're in the middle of it, maybe we should think about the next step, but the more steps that come when we get a little bit on the other side of this. We must also be able to afford to invest in our hospitals in the future; we must also be able to afford to have a welfare society in the future so that the lives we save today are not lost again. The United States is struggling violently with their economy right now, and the European countries are really closed for good reasons, and this will have an impact on our exporting companies. There is no doubt about that. Therefore, it is also crucial for us, of course, that we remember to have the long focus when it comes to the Danish economy. The number of unemployed can of course worry anyone as it looks right now. The companies are strongly challenged despite aid packages. So I just have one such first open question in my first round here: how does the Prime Minister see the challenges that await our society? Is it not already time to say that there will be things that we cannot afford in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135230	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135232	It is funny how quickly you turn to in question hours, that these are such short, precise questions that you would rather answer yes or no, and then there comes such a broader and actually quite thoughtful question: what are we looking into? In other words, the answer to that is that everyone today, globally, European and at home, agrees that what started as a health crisis is going to put itself much stronger in the economy than initially thought. As Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen himself says that, contrary to the situation in Denmark, where we are starting to open up the window, a great many communities are still shut down, and since we are a small open economy that lives very much on our exports, the long-term potential consequences of this are far more serious than what we have spent the most time discussing in recent times, namely a number of companies that have now been opened up, and where one has to assume that in any case, domestic demand will be able to be raised fairly quickly. And if the world goes into the deep freezer and remains there, how do we deal with the export issue? It takes quite a lot of thought. I myself believe that this has a very close connection with it, both Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Morten Østergaard mentioned the green transition and the climate struggle. That will be a very large part of the answer to make sure that what is temporarily a challenge to a giant That is what I see as our task. The aid packages are temporary, which is why we can also defend spending in the vicinity of 400 billion. kr. Well, then we're in a situation, like Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen tells us where we can't afford anything? Well, I can't write for the moment because we don't know the long-term consequences. But I think the situation is going to require much more creativity than what we have been getting used to in economic policy in recent years... so creativity in the responsible, wise way, not bookkeeping, right? That's not it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135459	Sir. Søren Pape, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135500	Thank you. Healthy creativity is always good. In fact, billions and billions of dollars have been spent recently, or at least billions of dollars, you might say. After all, we have done so in order to save as many jobs as possible, and we have done so because it was necessary and because the alternative had been worse. It also has the consequence that the piggy bank is broken. The money we're spending now can't be used again. Coronamilliards are also real billions. That is sometimes something you want to say, because the debate may sometimes seem a little skewed, and I understand that the people may wonder where we have all the billions from right now when we can sometimes discuss some very small amounts. It's just to say that the money spent has to be paid back. So, to draw my first question a little closer, could the Prime Minister imagine that she will have to, together with the parties that have brought her to power, make up some of the promises and understandings that have been made about a larger public sector, or does the Prime Minister expect this to be funded through what I fear, namely tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135613	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135615	Basically, I feel that what we thought was politically important before the corona hit us is also important afterwards. We do not have a desire for a public sector which must once again take a policy of austerity, because the need to invest in the next generations and to have proper and dignified care for the elderly has not diminished. For example, covering the demographic trait, which is a priority for a number of parties to the left of the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, is still just as important. I do not think there is any basis for questioning that. Our desire that the worn out should look into a fairer withdrawal than what is the case today is unchanged. The 70-percent climate objective is the same. But we have to do this together. I hope that the long-term economic recovery of the Danish economy will not only take place with some parties in the Folketing. I hope, then, that the cooperation we have seen over recent times can also extend to a large part of it. But we must think very, very well about what tools we use, and that is why, of course, we should not just set up the tax or just put it down for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135733	Sir. Søren Pape for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135735	After all, I fully understand what the Prime Minister said about what was meant before we were faced with this situation, you still mean away and that you still have those wishes. I guess we all have that. There are many things we would like, but I suppose we also agree that the money should at least be there. They must then be provided in different ways. Even if we have made aid packages, there are a lot of companies that are in danger of closure, or if they do, we must at least agree on that and the companies that benefit most from them will probably not get out of this without scars either. And we will probably see that there are some conditions of competition that will be greatly weakened because the markets are now behaving as they are. And, as the Prime Minister has also mentioned, we are a small open economy. We are dependent on the world market as a whole. That is why higher taxes and taxes will only weaken the situation. Now a few handshakes and guarantees have been given here today, one to Mr. Morten Østergaard, one for Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and a half guarantee for Mrs Pernille Skipper, did I hear, so should we not all say good times four and say that we get a guarantee from here that the bill for this will not be placed with the Danes or in the companies in the form of tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135842	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135844	I think we should give each other a hand in making the way through this crisis as wise and as fair as possible. Other crises have often been paid for, if you look back, by some in society and not by others. I think that we should act in solidarity, as it were. However, I would like to say at the same time that I do not have any plans, and I am not going to recommend that you just go out and raise taxes a lot and potentially make it even harder to run a business, because of course many companies will have a hard time because of the corona crisis. It hits them, and it hits Danish employees, but also potentially Danish economy. So we have to do this wisely. After all, I am in very close dialogue with the Danish business community about how we can make use of it, that we are actually opening up, to be a competitive advantage for Danish business, and combined with efforts in the climate field, we hopefully have an opportunity to actually do something that will make us win on all parameters if we are right, really capable together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135949	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421135957	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of New Citizens, I would also like to join the Glee Club. It has been wise, and it has been true, that Denmark was severely shut down and used with the spread of infection in the first place. Now we are facing phase two. We do so, partly because the Danes have taken the advice that has been given to themselves, partly because, I think, we have managed to cooperate constructively. It's meant a lot. The next phase is the reopening, and yesterday the economic wise men wrote in a chronicle in Information that they warn against going ahead with climate taxes as long as Denmark and the rest of the world are in an economic crisis. Instead, the wise men propose to lower the electricity tax here and now in order to give the Danes more of their own money between their hands, so that the economy can get into gear and so that jobs are secured. The chronicle of the wise men can hardly be read as anything other than a call to the government to use common sense in economic policy now. Lower taxes and stopping new taxes are good for growth, good for prosperity and good for Danish jobs. There should be no doubt that I and New Citizens in general are opposed to climate taxes. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will follow the wise men's advice and guarantee to the Danes and Danish companies that as long as the crisis rages, as long as the economy is not on its feet again, climate taxes will not be introduced. I know that the Left and the Radical Left are tripping to introduce climate taxes and make everyday life more expensive for the Danes; it is, in fact, the entire parliamentary basis of the government that demands climate taxes on the Danes and companies at the expense of Danish jobs. So I'm interested to know if the Prime Minister has chosen side: Is the government on the side of reason with the wise and says no to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140202	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140206	There is such a fascinating ability here at Christiansborg to always associate one's own view with common sense, and when the wise men say something that one agrees with, they are also sensible. Then it can be a week, and then they say something that you disagree with, and then it's incredibly unreasonable. I think it is a very, very good idea to base our policy on common sense. It is also an exceptionally good idea to take stock of a new situation. In my view, you can't just drive on with anything, as if corona hadn't happened, because the corona is here, and the corona has turned out to be more devastating to our economy than most had imagined. Therefore, you cannot just return and take out the good old catalogue, whether it is top tax concessions, or it is charges on flights, and say that it is still the solution. There we simply have to be more skilled together and look into the new times. Let's just take air fares, which were something many were inspired by before corona, but no planes are flying now. There is no flying, and that brings that discussion into a different light. Well, we've gone from a lot of people traveling, even cheaply, to no one traveling. Now, of course, at some point we have to start travelling again, but of course there will be some things we need to take cutlery off, and that applies all the way around. In my view, no one can organise the climate effort without looking at the economic consequences of the corona. Therefore, according to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's words must also be taken care not only to burn off all the money at once, and I know that there is always such impatience in the political debate, because now we must immediately have an economic recovery, but it is surely very wise to know all the consequences of the corona before making the complete recovery. That doesn't mean that you can't get started now, which I just spoke to Mr. President. Morten Østergaard about, but there is something in getting that phase divided and not getting all the money burned off, because at another time you can suddenly have a task that you cannot solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140408	It sounded like a guarantee to the airlines and the travel industry that there are no climate taxes on air transport here and now. I did not hear anything about the other sectors, and they will have to wait for that. One point for the wise men to make is that politicians should refrain from subsidising, in other words to subsidise one so-called green solution rather than the other in climate policy. The viewers explained in detail that it is a both uncertain and inefficient way of conducting climate policy when politicians distribute subsidies to one rather than the other. So the question is: will the Prime Minister follow the wise men or the left on that point?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140453	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140455	In all my deeds, I will endeavour to follow my own, hopefully, relatively reasonable, balanced starting point and neither the cliques of Information nor the individual elements of other parties' policies. I now think that when you look through our history, you will see quite a lot of examples of a public-private partnership, including support that has made Denmark one of the strongest climate nations today, and if you had not seen the close cooperation, for example. on renewable energy, on ecology, on energy efficiency, I do not think Denmark had stood where we stand today. The way to work and the way to think, i.e. that one sector can demand something from the other and then stimulate a demand that starts as a Danish demand, but ends as a global one, is a genius line. So I cannot stand and refuse to use that tool forward too. On the whole, I believe that, with the enormous challenge we face both with Corona and with climate, we must be careful not to use the hour of question time to say that we must not at least do that, that and that, because what is left, in the end, to resolve the two crises?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140616	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then that is the last question from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140619	The Prime Minister calls it a genius. I personally had hoped that the Prime Minister knew that when politicians create a job somewhere, it would be at the expense of more jobs elsewhere. Socialism is not the solution, nor is it in times of crisis. I would like to ask whether it should be the course out of the crisis by the government along with the left and the Radical Left, in other words to charge more of the Danes' money, because you think you are better at deciding how the Danes should live their lives than the Danes themselves are. After all, there is one place where you could show a little respect for the Danes' right to decide on their own money, namely the Danes' holiday money, they set aside holiday money. Give them back to the Danes, let the state start in the first place, and let the companies pay them when the liquidity is at it. It is a large amount of billions which could be released for the benefit of private consumption, for the benefit of companies, for the benefit of Danish families. Wouldn't the government just choose a different path here instead of, as often happens on the left, taking control of the Danes' lives. So, will the Prime Minister help give the Danes their frozen holiday money back?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140734	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140737	I actually think that both I and the Minister for Finance have said on several occasions that if there is a solution to the holiday money, we are happy to look at it. There is a liquidity challenge, and if it can be solved with the holiday money, we can consider it. I'd like to say I didn't want to be considered a socialist. The Social Democratic Party has refused to do so many years ago, and I would actually think that the same applies to Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard. I'm a little more unsure about how the word sounds over here. I am certainly not a Socialist, and that is something quite, quite different. Yes, thankfully for the country. Laughter Pernille Vermund We have renounced socialism here. Is that what we hear? ) (First Vice-President It is the Prime Minister who answers the question. Here's to the PM, 15 seconds left. ) It may be that we will soon have a longer session on ideologies and their differences. In relation to the issue of climate change, I would just like to say that Mr. Morten Østergaard, for example, raised the issue of the Landsbygningsfonden and the fact that we are about to renovate in the general housing sector, saying that it should have a very, very clear climate view. Is it a stupid way to think of a potential contribution to a kick-start of Danish economy, employment, a lot of small craftsmen who can get started, while getting a positive release on CO2 No, it isn't, it's the right way to think. And that is what has characterised the green transition in Denmark to a great extent since the 1970s, and that is why we are so strong today. So even if you belong to a different economic thinking from that of the Socialist, you should not be so afraid of it, because it has been very fruitful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140922	Thank you, Prime Minister. And thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for the questions. The next question is the leader of the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go to the first question of 2 minutes duration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421140933	I was just about to say that I can also refuse to start, so to say: I am not a socialist. It's also amazing with all the talk about tax relief that's in this Parliament today. For a rare time, I will not actually contribute to that. On the other hand, I would actually like to follow up on the questions which my colleague Mr Beazley has raised. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen asked. My first thought, when he asked about the uncertainty about the long-term strategy, and what is to happen in connection with the reopening of Denmark, was that it was damn, because those were my questions, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen had taken. Great mind think alike. But there is such a luck in the accident that the Prime Minister does not give sufficiently precise and clear answers to the questions, and that is why I can easily follow it up. For there is still a uncertainty about, on the one hand, what the government is pursuing, and, on the other hand, what it is pursuing and what its consequences are. And as long as there is uncertainty and uncertainty about it, there will be uncertainty about the future; of course, to some extent there will be no matter what. I think it would be helpful to have two questions answered at the start of the debate so as to clarify these questions more clearly. One is to be confirmed that until a vaccine has been developed, whether it is in 1 year, 11⁄2 years or 2 years, the Danes will not be free, as it were. There will be parts of society and business that are closed down. There will be restrictions on our behaviour with demands for social distance, and it may not be possible to hold weddings, confirmations and funerals, or to visit elderly people in nursing homes, or we should do so in a new way, and society will be shut down to some extent. That would be the one thing it would be good to have a confirmation of, that is, that it is immediately so. The second is to stay exactly what the government is heading for. Is it the green curve that the Minister of Health has previously told us is the one you want to follow, but then you don't follow any longer because it stays down a bit? Or are you steering for a low pressure of infection, that is, an infection pressure of about 1? What kind of objective is this, or is it perhaps a third that the government is steering? I do not think that is actually clear to many Danes. And, of course, there are questions about what the strategy is and what the consequences of that strategy are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141136	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141138	Our goal is unchanged to save lives. It's a health crisis. As the second step, it is to ensure that the Danish healthcare system, including its employees and all other patients, does not collapse. And as number three, it is that we get through this economically as well as possible in a world that is experiencing very, very great consequences. That is the goal. What we've been saying all along is that we're going to be inside the green curve. We have not said that we will be at the climax of the green curve. How can one control it when there are so many elements involved in how the infection spreads or does not spread in a society? That is the goal. And it's a strange confirmation to seek when everyone in the Folketing knows very well that none of us know what this disease looks like in one year. Nobody knows. Nobody knows in Denmark. Nobody knows in Europe. No one knows in Singapore, South Korea or Asia. We simply do not know. And that's why it would be strange if I had to stand up today... it would also be an incredibly depressing view to come up with and say that for 1 year, for 2 years or for 25 years things look a certain way. That would be excuse me if I were completely untrustworthy. We know the disease as it has evolved so far, and there we know that behavior, behavior, has a very, very important impact on how the infection develops, how the pressure of infection develops, the number of admissions, the number of Danes who need respirators. That's what we know. Then we know that Denmark has succeeded in striking down rather hard and getting the disease under control, and that therefore, as one of the few countries, we can open up. We also know that with that opening we risk going too far and therefore having to shut down again. These are some of the things we know, but we don't know exactly how to do it. That is why we must use our common sense and our health assessment. That's pretty much some of the things we know. What things look like in one year, we don't know, but what I do know in return is that no one in Denmark will be able to live in isolation for a whole year. So if we look into a disease that extends over a long time, we are, in my view, forced to find a way that the Danes can be together and look after each other under different circumstances from what we have been used to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141356	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141357	I do not think it would be unbelievable to state more clearly what is being pursued or what is being expected immediately. You can see in Germany that it is very clear that you are steering to have an infection pressure that is max. is 1, and you are also beginning to talk about what the long-term plan is. A larger phase plan has also been drawn up in Austria. In Sweden, which I would probably not recommend immediately as a pioneering country, there is at least clarity that it is flock immunity that is the goal. When I look at countries around the world, it is not the case that in itself it is unbelievable to say which goal one is heading for, and there I understand that it is a little different goals. But immediately the conclusion must be that we must keep the infection low, but we must also open up, so there is something business, and at the same time there are signals from the Prime Minister, from the authorities that until there is a vaccine, there will be some degree of decommissioning of society. It is therefore relevant to have it confirmed because it opens up some new questions which we will sooner or later have to answer no matter what. Are those parts of industry that cannot open up to the market to have aid packages for 18 months, if it is 18 months before there is a vaccine, or will they be told in four months' time that the aid packages are over? It's just one question. If you do not steer by the green curve but steer by a low pressure of infection, then there is, of course, a discussion that we should have the patient rights reinstated in the Danish health care system as soon as possible. So it's relevant to get some clear answers from the government. I'm not trying to force the government to be untrustworthy. On the contrary, I see it rather as helping to clarify the long-term plans for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141510	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141512	Never should one reveal one's confidential conversations, either with domestic political partners or out in the big world. I spend quite a lot of time talking to my political Prime Minister colleagues in those countries where it is possible to open up, and I do not say too much when I say that these conversations are subject to very, very great reflection, many difficult reflections and dilemmas and an observation of what each other does. I would very much like to join in on Danish soil that we are doing what we have already agreed, including with the Left, that in the negotiations on phase two we also look into, if everything goes, as we would like it to go, what we can then look into immediately afterwards. Because I understand that many would like to see themselves in an opening strategy of Denmark, as long as we agree that it all depends on whether we continue to do everything we need to do so that the infection does not get out of control. So it is with all sorts of reservations, but what we have agreed to provide, I think we should provide together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141629	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh to the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141631	Thank you. The last thing about keeping social distance, what I hear is indirectly being said, is of course I fully agree with it; it is difficult to be otherwise. I also believe that much of this in a political sense is about how much one can trust the Danes to keep to it. On the one hand, there is a rather high degree of trust • I don't always experience the same with the government and, on the other hand, one should also have a look for the Danes' patience in the long run. It is a difficult dilemma, but it is also a debate that I think is relevant to take, when one looks into a long period, what the Prime Minister indirectly confirms, where we must have a behaviour that is different than it was in the past, for some time to come, probably until there is a vaccine. But I really want to hear in connection with the process outlined by the Prime Minister... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen mentioned this a bit: could it be an idea, following Norwegian example, to set up a kind of expert group with both epidemiologists and economists who make a presentation to the government or to the party leaders, as a kind of follow-up group, or is there something that makes the Norwegian model not particularly useful in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141730	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141733	We can always discuss how we organise the work in the best possible way, and I myself have also had the opportunity to look into the Norwegian papers and, of course, in the Danish papers. I think it's a very, very gross claim... very, very gross claim that I don't actually want to sit on me... that I don't trust the Danes. I can see that things are going a little bit in the public debate in Denmark and that you can just throw these things on the table. But to stand and say that I don't trust the Danes building on what? So, Denmark and the Danes have just shown in a phenomenal way that we can figure out how to handle a situation like this. I don't want it on me. My confidence in the Danes is huge, but I am fully aware that what we are asking for is wild and that our common way of being people is challenged by the fact that we must keep that distance, and therefore no one can expect everyone to live up to it to the letter, but to change it to the effect that as Prime Minister I do not have confidence in the Danes. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141840	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for the questions. The last question in question time is the leader of the alternative, and that's Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421141857	Thank you so much. It is also clear to us in the alternative that the corona crisis has led to a lot of disadvantages for lots of people at all levels of society, and that is also why we are negotiating in many ministries to try to help society through the corona crisis. In the alternative, we are happy to take part in the negotiations and, of course, from us too, there must be praise to the government for handling this so thoroughly and so effectively and also to all the other parties in order to refrain from exploiting the situation to create bullshit and squabble and trouble and political strategy. And we hope that it will last for the whole crisis that we can work together in this way. The crisis also has a few bright points to say, but it has also been so, for example. the climate, the environment, and more animal species thrive as never before. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: are there any of these new experiences that we have gained in relation to the way we have had to work together here in the Corona crisis, which we might be able to take out of the crisis in order to strengthen the sustainable transition? For example: have we held incredible amounts of digital meetings, not just here, but throughout society; some of it works, some of it is a little difficult, but we have at least succeeded in holding incredibly many meetings, and it has saved us infinite amounts of CO2 could one continue with it in some form or other, or are there other things that the Prime Minister has learned or will point out that one can take out of this crisis for the benefit of the climate and the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142046	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142048	That's a good question. In the first place, I would also say that the praise given to the government here today in relation to the handling of the first part of Corona, for my part, goes back to the Folketing, because I think that the Danish people's government has shown its worth, and I am actually very impressed that ten parties with different views have been able to hear that today too. Søren Pape Poulsen said where there are certain colors and flowers you have enjoyed a little more, but overall it has been convincing, I think, and we can see an entire society that is deeply grateful that we did not spend the time on bullshit, which we have a certain tradition of in here, but actually spent it on solving the task. To this, whether we take some experience with us, I would say that I think we do. I'd say that when we started up many have guaranteed the same experience... it was really hard for people to do those video conferencing and find out how to mute and such the general meeting discipline, and there you can see that it's getting better and better. And suddenly you shouldn't hang in rush hour, and there's work you can do from home for some job functions, not for everyone, but for some. Some have also learned that one does not have to travel far to meet; one can sit across the globe and achieve good results, and some of these things I think we should clearly take with us into the future that lies behind this. However, I would not recommend such a slow-down in our economy on another occasion, because it could potentially harm the climate even more in the long run, because in some places the countries will simply find it difficult to solve the climate challenge, but I think that we will have good experiences with some of what is happening in this crisis. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142247	I think so, too. Not even the alternative believes that it will benefit the climate to put the whole of society at a standstill here and now. The Corona crisis has also taught us that our society can unexpectedly be thrown into an economic crisis with a very high level of unemployment as a result. We have also learned that the social safety net in such a situation may not be quite as strong as we think. Many examples include the fact that some people have felt compelled to go to work, even if they are themselves vulnerable to the corona, or even though they may be afraid of bringing infection back to vulnerable children. This is, of course, something we deal with here in the Folketing. We are in the process of doing so, and we intend to do so in a good way, but it would have been useful if people in this situation could have fallen back on a civil salary. In the alternative, we are in favour of citizens' wages, i.e. an unconditional basic income, so that you can take a break from the labour market to train, to care for children or to prevent stress. Now we see that it could actually have been very useful in this situation. Are there any of the thoughts of the Prime Minister with regard to the changes that could be in the labour market in such a situation here that perhaps one can consider reinforcing the social security network of society with some kind of unconditional basic income?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142406	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142407	No, no, no. I have to be rudely honest and say that I regard the idea of civil pay as one of the really not very good ideas. I think you should go to work. I think that you should support yourself and your family, and I think that the principle of right and duty, that you contribute, is absolutely crucial. Then there may be situations in one's life, and this can happen to all of us where one cannot be allowed to play the role of every adult in this country in the labour market, and then we must have a strong social safety net. I believe that one of the greatest social policy disasters that has been in this country over the years is that there are people who, for various reasons, have not been allowed to go in and be part of the labour force. It can have much, much greater social policy consequences than so much else. So the safety net must be there when you cannot, but we must not pay each other for not being allowed to do what is quite, absolutely crucial for far, by far, most people, namely to make use of, and in a very, very large part of our lives to make good use of, the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142528	Sir. Torsten Gejl for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142530	Sounds like it's a long way home! Now there is a concept that many of us are talking about: green reboot. There are many of us who think about how we can start this up in a more green way. Can you reboot society from a more green angle? Is there anything we can do differently from the green transition and to strengthen the green transition than what we thought before we got all these experiences from a situation where the climate and the environment really thrive? What are the Prime Minister's thoughts on the concept of green restart? Has the Prime Minister thought about the concept of green rebooting, for example? in the light of the objective of 70 per cent CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142622	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142625	I agree with the conclusion that there is a long way to go and probably a long way to go. Now, before I had a discussion with Pernille Skippe about being a socialist or a democratic socialist, as I am, and as Social Democrats profess to be, and a very, very important part of the latter, I am not going to explain how Enhedslisten looks at things: the idea of right and duty and, as far as the labour market is concerned, to seek employment. It is a very, very strong part of the social democratic DNA. When it is green transition, green reboot and thinking about the recovery of the economy through long-term economic planning into the climate struggle, there is, however, much, much shorter road between us. Here I look forward to good cooperation. I believe that Denmark must show that the way out of what we are in now is a simultaneous solution to some of the consequences of the climate crisis, and I am actually sure that a continuation of much of what we as a country, in other words, in companies, in research and in the whole of green innovation, was already taking place, is also what can solve some of the specific challenges for the Danish business community that we mentioned before. So here I look forward to cooperation, but not about the civil salary, which I am really opposed to for many, many reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421142742	Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the parties' questions, and thank you to the parties. The question is over. I shall now interrupt this sitting. The Danish Parliament will resume its sitting at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: L 136 and L 169.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150005	The sitting shall resume. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Bent Bøgsted. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Bent Bøgsted to speak? No, not anyway. Does anyone else want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150056	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and No 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150127	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150134	Thank you. Then it was the right bill, and I had to be allowed. It's these coronatides that affect everyone. This is a proposal, among other things. The 225-hour rule, and in this respect a great deal of amendments have been put by the government into the 225-hour rule. It may seem very sensible, it may also seem a little strange, but it is, of course, in order to have a quick examination of the proposals made by the Minister concerning cash benefits and sickness benefit, and I think the senior premium was also included in it. The amendments tabled by the Minister support the Danish People's Party, of course, because they are good measures; there is nothing there at all. There have been quite a number of other initiatives since then. There has been a startling opening up of society, there are several companies that have begun to open up, and the last thing we have heard today is that now you are also starting to open up rides such as zoos here in May, and Bakken and others are starting to open up. So society is just as quietly opening up. In this connection, we in the Danish People's Party have taken a re-evaluation of this bill. From the first reading, when amendments to the 225-hour rule were a legislative proposal for themselves, we have said that we support this proposal here, but with the background of what has happened since, and the further opening of society, we in the Danish People's Party have considered that we do not see any reason to extend the suspension of the 225-hour rule, so we are voting against that amendment from the Minister. We also find it rather difficult to see that it is necessary to suspend the 225-hour rule at all, so we shall abstain from voting on the proposal. In this way, of course, we change our position on the proposal and we have asked for it to be returned to the submission of the supplementary report between the second and third readings. In addition, we have also decided in this regard that we support the amendments that exist, from the new citizens to the 225-hour rule, and we will support those proposals. Therefore, in view of everything that has happened in the last few days, we have changed our position on this proposal, and there must of course be an opportunity to do so. I can see that many people have already indicated that they are going to say something, and it is only gratifying that one can encourage the questioning of colleagues in this House. That's good, sir. Karsten Hønge came in anyway, even though he thought it was silly that he should go into the hall here, because what was going to happen in here? Mr. Karsten Hønge was so told now here, what was going to happen. But we have announced that we want it back between the second and third readings for the submission of a new report or a supplementary report, or whatever it is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150511	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150515	No, no, I don't think it's silly to get into the Parliamentary Chamber, let alone when there's even a proposal on the table. That is what I had doubts about before the meeting began. But could Mr. Bent Bøgsted didn't consecrate us a little more in the deeper reflections and thoughts you might have had. I don't know if you've had or if it's just a tactical maneuver with New Citizens we're being introduced to here? Is it just a need for the Danish People's Party to make its mark in relation to the fact that there have now been some who are even more out on the right than the Danish People's Party, namely the Party of New Citizens? Because I have not yet heard a single substantive argument from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, other than that there was what was it, sir. Bent Bøgsted said? What has happened that suddenly makes the Danish People's Party have a completely different view?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150554	If sir... Karsten Hønge had followed the press in the same way as we do in the Danish People's Party, and followed what happened at the meetings that have been with the Prime Minister, where you start to open up more to the community where you open up to the liberal professions, where at least today it has been said that you open up to, for example. zoos, and the Bakken also opens here in May, and the other summer countries, and what is, begins to open up again, that is what has been laid out here now, so you can see that we justify it by the fact that the places where they could look for work were closed down. That's what did it. When it was suspended with the effort in the municipalities, there was nowhere they could seek. But it has begun to be opened up, and then there is no basis for it anymore. That is simply why we have assessed it in this way, and that is why we are voting yellow to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150653	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150654	Speaking of the media, sir... Bent Bøgsted may also have followed in and seen how unemployment is exploding in Denmark at the moment, so today we are up to 175,000 or actually 176,000 unemployed. So what are some things that have changed so that those people who already have the weakest foothold in the labour market, right now, in a situation where all sorts of others are being fired, especially unskilled people, should have a little easier to go out and find a job now? There's no substance to that argument. There is nothing, and certainly not in recent days, to show it. In other words, there is something that opens up that will give jobs in the long term, that is right, but here and now there isn't. I conclude that this is a purely tactical maneuver to mark itself against New Citizens because they are afraid of the bad opinion figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150737	Now the 225-hour rule is that it is not full-time jobs they have to find in a whole year, and in fact we think that 225 hours of work can be found in a whole year. We did so when we got it through, and we are still doing so. When you look at the second high unemployment rate, we supported the extension of benefits and sickness benefits and such things. We supported that. So it's not there. That is the 225-hour rule, because it is less hours to meet that requirement, and we see no reason to suspend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150810	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150813	Something really happened here. That is to say, in the Danish People's Party, one has gone from agreeing with us over here to saying that when the activation effort is zero, when these people, while they cannot be helped by the municipalities, then also can not find any work, because it is really difficult to find something • the companies are concentrating on surviving and looking after the employees they have • of course are harder than usual for these people to find a job, to no longer think so. There the Danish People's Party no longer believes that these people have just as much difficulty in finding a job and that it has certainly not become more difficult than it has normally been. Is that what I hear the Danish People's Party say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150859	No, it's not, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and that is why we are voting yellow on the proposal itself. Because there may be some areas where they may find it difficult to find work, but more is being opened up, which means that they are easier to go out and find a few hours to supplement it. After all, they have 12 months to find these hours, and with the opening that starts to happen in society, we absolutely believe that it will be easier for them to find the few hours. It can be difficult to find a full-time job, but they don't have to. It's a few hours they need to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150936	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421150938	Well, the picture that society should start driving and the jobs hanging on the trees again, I can't really see. But there is another problem, and that is, of course, that this is retroactive from 9 March. That actually means that this is at a time when Mr. Bent Bøgsted and Dansk Folkeparti believed that it was difficult to get a job, also covering it up. So that means that a month has already passed when it was retroactive. So that means that at that time, a month ago, it didn't matter. Even though it was harder for them, it didn't matter. It is also part of the draft law that it is with retroactive effect from 9 March when it was
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151015-2	But at that time, it was also difficult to see when the opening started again. A great deal has happened in the last week on the part of the government, which has started to open up so little. The liberal professions have started, and there are many other things that are starting to get started here. We will soon be at 1 May, when further openings begin. So on the basis of this, we thought it was fair enough to say that it was not necessary at all to extend the period, but that there should be no need to suspend it either. But it's being suspended, because it is. Leif Lahn Jensen made sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151053	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151059	I would like to try to understand some of what the rapporteur says. The Danish People's Party probably agrees that there are many people today who are on cash benefits who have a different challenge than unemployment, and we also know that there are more on cash benefits that have been parked and that have not yet been properly searched for a flex job or an early retirement pension. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he is not concerned about putting some of those who, for one reason, have found it difficult to get the 225 hours, including more people who are ill, under pressure where they will risk their health in order to be able to have these hours at a time when risk groups are particularly vulnerable to coronasmite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151154	But it is quite liberating that Mrs Victoria Velasquez mentions those who are vulnerable and those who are sick, who are on cash benefits, because that is precisely where the Danish People's Party has put in a massive effort to get their cases settled, because they should not be in the cash assistance system at all. That is where we got more people going, and money was set aside for it. And there are a great many who have been clarified and moved on to early retirement or to flexible jobs in this regard. And it goes on, so more people come in round two, where you still grab on to those who are sick and get them away, because they shouldn't be in the cash benefits system at all. So in this way, the Danish People's Party has ensured that we give help to those who are sick. It is then just a question of all municipalities taking advantage of the opportunities that exist, but they can certainly do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151241	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151242	But the problem hasn't been solved. That is one of the reasons why the Finance Act has provided us with help for some of those who have been in the cash assistance system for over 8 out of the last 10 years, because the problem is huge. It has not been resolved and that means that right now we have sick people on cash benefits who are at risk of being pressured into risking their health because of coronasmite. In addition, we know that some of those who do not have contact with the labour market do not have a permanent employer and therefore find it difficult to meet the 225-hour rule. Is it not unfair that it is some of those who are furthest away from our labour market and who we would like to try to help that must be hit the hardest? We've created a break for them on cash benefits. We have removed the availability requirement. It's a break and a break. But does the rapporteur not think that it would be only fair for us to help those affected by the 225-hour rule, and not in these insecure times to sanction them financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151340	They must, of course, be helped to get clarification, they must be helped to get a job, and that is also what was put in place in order for more people to go along and for those who were sick to have clarification. I don't want them in the cash assistance system at all. There are also many of those who are ill who do not fall under the 225-hour rule at all. They are not affected by the 225-hour rule. So it is of course a question of how the municipalities manage, and that is what we have had some problems with over the ages, namely that the municipalities have not administered in the way they should. That is why the Danish People's Party had more people come along, and we had a great deal of money set aside for clarification. And more are going in round two, which was also set in motion. A great many have been clarified. And you shouldn't go in that system for eight years of illness, we totally agree with that. And it's totally failed if somebody gets to go sick so long. It should have been solved, it is so obviously not • and that is why, of course, we also need to follow up, so that more people are involved in round two that have been put into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151434	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151438	Thank you. It is such a strange premise that precisely in politics one must not become wiser and change one's attitude, change one's mind. This is necessary in many other parts of society and in one's life. So I just want to congratulate the Danish People's Party, and if we have helped the Danish People's Party to change its mind about this, I would just like to acknowledge it and thank the Danish People's Party for having changed its mind about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151501	Well, I would like to thank New Citizens for some good amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151506	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151509	Thank you. After all, there are more people who have not managed to find 225 hours of work a year. So there are in fact many who have lost part of their cash aid in advance because, in the circumstances prior to the corona crisis, they could not find the 225 hours of work. Now we are in a situation where the labour market has been reduced even if there is a gradual reopening which we do not know at all about how long it will take. When it was the case that we could not find those hours before the corona crisis, how does the rapporteur think it is possible to find those hours now in a situation where society is half laid down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151554	I am so convinced that society is moving forward. I do not think we should have a black-eyed view of this and say that nothing is happening for the next few months. I have a great hope that within a month or two we are going to be a long way in the process and upstairs so that it works again. Already now we can see that there is emerging hope and optimism in Danish society, and when the government has announced that now more and more is being opened up there is also a basis for finding a few hours. It's not a full-time job they have to find to live up to the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151640	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151642	After all, there is no germination and hope and optimism among thousands of sick Danes who must be chased around for work that does not exist to try to maintain their cash benefits. Thousands of sick people are still away on cash benefits, which are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. It is true that we have made some good efforts through the rate pool in the Ministry of Employment, which is called "More should be included." But that is not enough at all, and the rapporteur knows that there are thousands of sick people here. However, I would just like the rapporteur to confirm something when the rapporteur says that more people are going to be included in the debate. Would the rapporteur not confirm that we were a number of parties who put it together in the Ministry of Employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151728	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151729	No, I can't, sir. Torsten Gejl, for at the time of the first meeting, it was something that the Danish People's Party agreed with the then Minister for Employment Jørn Neergaard Larsen, that is to say that it should be in place. It was a direct demand from the Danish People's Party that it came through. Well, then, sir. Torsten Gejl was kind enough to vote in favour, and so have the other parties, because that was a very good thing. So I cannot confirm that it has not come from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151758	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, but I should just like to ask, for the sake of good order, whether it is to be understood that the Danish People's Party does not support any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151808	No, what I said was that the Danish People's Party supports the amendments tabled by the government, except for the amendment relating to the 225-hour rule. I have also informed the committee secretary. We also support the amendments that came from New Citizens. So we support all other amendments, except those relating to the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151828	Thank you. Then we have one more person who has asked for the floor, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151836	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we in the New Citizen believe that the current employment system has failed. I have indicated this many times up here from the platform. If you had to build a system all over again, I don't think you'd build it up the way it is now. We would like the whole house to be demolished and rebuilt, and I hope that at some point we can sit together broadly and across all the parties in the Folketing and create a new and better system that would be fairer and would help those citizens who are being thrown around in the system as it is now. We have tabled an amendment to this, and we have done so because we believe that we should help Danish citizens for a difficult period, but it is not for the Folketing to bid people out there, Danes who are fighting for their jobs and may find that they are losing their jobs, that even more foreigners, who may have been far away from the labour market or have never been on the labour market, are guaranteed a higher benefit than they would otherwise have been able to obtain. We don't think that's the job, especially in these times. Foreigners coming to Denmark must support themselves, and that is why we have tabled the amendment. Thank you very much to DF for having changed its position and now to support New Citizens' proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151946	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421151950	I would like to ask Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen a little more into why it is, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen believes that the Danish People's Party has changed its position. I heard well earlier that the rapporteur, just as he acknowledged that it was good then that the Danish People's Party had become wiser. I'm not gonna leave that option open at the moment. What are these things in recent days, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted said there has... Lars Boje Mathiesen see the same things that in recent days would justify a change of attitude on this issue, or is there something more fundamental that lies longer than it obviously does for new citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152028-2	I do not think it is my job to interpret what other parties think and why they have those opinions. - Sir? - Yes, sir. Karsten Hønge therefore ask Dansk Folkeparti about, and then I am sure they will answer on their behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152039	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152041	It's okay, but if there's anything in Mr. Knox's office, it's okay. Lars Boje Mathiesen's optics, which can prove, suggest that there are any things in recent days that would justify a completely different attitude to this question? What else could it be other than that the Danish People's Party is, of course, frightened by bad polls and is under pressure from New Citizens? But I'm not gonna take that with me. Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Lars Boje Mathiesen did not comment on. But are there objective things out there in society that make you have to change your basic attitude to this issue in recent days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152108	New citizens have not changed their basic attitude to this. That there are other parties that have changed their minds, I can only acknowledge that they have changed their position that they are now supporting what New Citizens have always meant, and I would just like to acknowledge that. But I do not think it is my job to interpret the reasons why others have changed their minds. It's inappropriate if I should start doing it. I have promised myself that I would like to have my eyes on the ball and not the person in the political game. So I don't want to interpret why other parties do what they do. It is clear that we have some challenges. Unemployment has risen, and that is precisely why we want to help the Danes who are affected by this unemployment. They should not be affected by a wrong rule. But we do not believe that it is the task of Danish taxpayers to support foreigners who come here and who may never have been on the labour market. They must not be allowed to receive a higher benefit than they could otherwise have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152208	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152214	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 9 and 10 outside the report by Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) which was rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of CF, NB and LA)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 11 outside the report by Lars Boje Mathisen (NB) which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV, SF and ALT), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-8, elected by the committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200421152411	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 16.55 with 3rd reading on L 136, L 169 and 2.
