ParlaMint-DK_20200604101508	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604101515	The item listed as No. 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. We are in the middle of a lot of votes, so we are starting now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604101529	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 81 af Rasmus Stoklund (S). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voted 28 (S), against voting 67 (V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 0. The President corrected the error at 1 p.m. 10.23. and the correct number of votes is therefore indicated above.] Proposal for adoption No V 81 is rejected. Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 80 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Britt Bager (V), Nase Khader (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 39 (V, DF, KF and LA), against voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 3 (NB). Proposal for adoption No The V 80 has been rejected. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 82 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 26 (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 69 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 82 has been rejected. Finally, we must vote on the motion for a resolution. V 83 by Pernille Vermund (NB). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 11 (DF and NB), against voting 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 83 is rejected. That concludes the question. That was item 1 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604102747	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 77 by Rasmus Stoklund (S). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 27 (S), against 68 (V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 77 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 76 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Pernille Vermund (NB). Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of voting 11 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 76 has been rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 78 of Mads Birded (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 31 votes (V, KF and LA), 56 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), 8 abstentions (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 78 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 79 by Andreas Steenberg (RV), Carl Valentin (SF) and Rosa Lund (EL). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 26 votes (RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 69 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 79 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604103610	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 84 by Signe Munk (SF), Jacob Jensen (V), Troels Ravn (S), René Christensen (DF), Zenia Stampe (RV), Mai Villadsen (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote will end. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 84 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604103753	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604103807	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604103920	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604103948	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104104	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104120	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104229	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104247	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104357	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104410	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104515	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104537	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister for Industry as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104544	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104551	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. I shall have the results of the proceedings here. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, specified way For voting 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 9 (KF and LA), abstention 3 (NB). The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104738	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104751	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, indicated way) For voting 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104903	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604104917	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way) For voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 5 (NB and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105050	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105106	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour of the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members voting against the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining from the draft law are asked to stand up. Thank you. I shall have the results of the proceedings here. 3, specified manner). In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105213	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105228	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour of the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members voting against the bill are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining from the draft law are asked to stand up. Thank you. I shall have the results of the proceedings here. 3, specified manner). In favour 77 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 18 (RV, EL, Alt and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105417	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105435	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 52 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105629	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105645	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Those who vote for the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes against the bill, please stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against the bill is asked to stand up. Thank you. The vote was taken on paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 3, indicated way For voting 52 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105841	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105859	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-7 by the Minister for Housing as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105909	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604105916	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 52 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 43 (V, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110112	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110122	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Those who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Anyone who votes for or against shall stand up. Thank you. 3, specified manner). In favour of 38 (V, RV and KF), against 57 (S, DF, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110331	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110342	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6 member of the Committee (except NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110403	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110411	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of a minority (EL) rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110443	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604110514	Thank you very much, sir. President. Then we stand here again, and we shall discuss the law on goods transport, a law that we have spent and will spend a great deal of time on forward-looking. After all, the reason why we spend time on it is that the law on goods transport is the very basic law on road transport, and that is why it is so extremely important. Let me start by emphasising that in the Conservative People's Party we very much recognise the need for political intervention to ensure proper pay and working conditions for drivers driving freight transport in Denmark. This applies to both Danish and foreign drivers. There is a need for protection against social dumping and, at the same time, we believe that it is essential to maintain the freedom of agreement on the Danish labour market. As a country, as a nation and as a people for the last many, many years, we have been united in the freedom of each individual and in the freedom of each company to make their choices without the State interfering. That is why we had great pleasure in joining in the political conciliation which is the basis for this bill, precisely because the agreement respected both considerations. We took responsibility and ensured a decent minimum level of pay and employment for drivers driving freight, but at the same time the agreement allowed more collective agreements to be applied as long as they meet a certain level. So far, so good. From there it went to become a very unsightly and messy affair, as usually happens it is. Unfortunately, it has become apparent that on a number of crucial points the draft law does not meet what was agreed in January by a very broad group of parties. It is above all respect for the freedom of agreement that has slipped away, and when this element falls away, the basis for the Conservative People's Party's involvement is also gone. I am sorry that this has happened, because we really, really want to take responsibility in this very area. That is why, in the committee work, we have also tried to restore the balance of the legislative proposal. I personally have had many talks with the Minister for Employment about this, and now I am supposed to stand here and look down and nod to the Minister for Employment and say thank you. We even have, indeed, sympathy and understanding for each other's opinions, but not so much has happened since then. We have endeavoured to ensure that the draft law really respects the fact that the agreement on pay and working conditions and employment conditions can actually be tightened up in other ways than exactly the one formulated by 3F, and that is what was the essence of freedom of agreement. It was secured in the political agreement, but has gone out along the way, and we have wondered why, because we usually respect the agreements we make with each other. Unfortunately, the negotiations have now ended in a dead end. Although our wish in this matter was quite simple, there has been no real will on the part of the government to guarantee the freedom of agreement, this despite the fact that we have a clear agreement that freedom of association must be respected in the legislative proposal, as well as a sign of an agreement that we reached only four months ago. We have asked questions and we have put specific proposals on the table. Unfortunately, the Minister has not been able to shake, and that is why we are now tabling an amendment here at second reading to ensure that the distortion in which the law has ended is corrected, a distortion which means that only 3F's agreements will be valid when the law comes into force. The challenge is, of course, that even if the bill allows alternative agreements to be approved as a basis for freight transport in Denmark, they cannot obtain a prior approval from the Ministry. The government does not want to be involved in this, or rather it does not want to be: it excuses itself with all sorts of explanations of why it is not possible to do so. Yes, one almost gets the impression that we are up against an absurd and opaque bureaucratic system which makes it quite impossible to assess a few individual agreements before the law comes into force. When we are on exactly the road haulage law, which, as I said, is the basic law for drivers and road hauliers, we also know that no road haulage licence is equal to no turnover, and that is why we are putting the poor companies who are fighting really, really hard every day to make money in a very unfavourable situation, since they do not have a pre-approved agreement and are therefore going to say no to turnover. We have even been there, where we have proposed to the Minister, whether it would be possible to publish on the Danish Trade Authority's website that the alternative agreements were being examined because they had applied. Not even that could be extended. So this is a de facto, de facto monopoly of 3F, and it is the case that we simply cannot do that. Now it is the case that we here in the Folketing can decide how the law should be drawn up, and if the government lacks a legal basis for prior approval of alternative agreements, we have to equip it with such a legal basis. That is why I have tabled the amendment to L 185, a proposal which clearly confirms the possibility of assessing and approving alternative agreements before the law comes into force. Thus, companies applying alternative agreements will also be ready when the new rules come into force. We owe this to the many responsible Danish hauliers and their drivers. I do not think that this is the world we are asking for in this case, because the so-called alternative agreements still have to meet the minimum requirements set out in the 3F agreement. The draft law states that they must not deviate unequivocally or substantially. With the amendment we guarantee freedom of agreement; we ensure that we do not end up in a situation where 3F has a monopoly, even if their agreements are indicative, and at the same time we ensure that we do not contribute to discrimination against Danish companies. If the Danish Parliament can accept the amendment from the Conservative People's Party, we will also be happy to vote in favour of the bill, so that we have a bill that ensures equal treatment and healthy competition as a safeguard against driving on Danish roads by drivers who are underpaid massively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111212	We thank Niels Flemming Hansen. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111228	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 outside the report by Niels Flemming Hansen (KF), and a vote can be taken. Those who vote in favour of the amendment are asked to stand up. Thank you. Please, sit down. Those who vote against the amendment are asked to stand up. Thank you. Please, sit down. Anyone who votes for or against the amendment will be asked to stand up. Thank you. That was the last vote today. Thank you for your patience, but, in particular, thank you for the efforts made by the Secretary-General. 3, specified manner). In favour of 12 (KF, NB and LA), against 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT (by mistake) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111450	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111503	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111526	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111543	Thank you for the floor, President. It has been absolutely crucial for the Social Democratic Party that Danish companies and employees come as best as possible through the challenges brought about by covid-19. That is why we have wanted to give a helping hand to Danish companies in order to secure Danish employees and jobs. As part of the relief packages, a comprehensive Parliamenting extended the deadline for settlement of A-tax, labour market contributions and VAT back in March so that companies gained a significant improvement in their liquidity. However, covid-19 remains topical, and therefore there is also a need for a further extension of payment deadlines. That is why the draft law we are discussing here today aims to postpone payment periods for A tax, labour market contributions and VAT again, so that a more relaxed return to normal payment deadlines and the liquidity of companies is further strengthened. However, the aim is also to temporarily ease certain unintended tax consequences due to the fact that covid-19 has imposed restrictions on where a person can stay, where a work can be done from, and how a company can do business. The proposal proposes that payment periods for A tax and labour market contributions for the months August, September and October 2020 be postponed by approx. 41⁄2, 51⁄2 and 61⁄2 months. With the proposed postponement, payment deadlines will be postponed until the first half of 2021, which will give companies more time to consolidate themselves again. In addition, time limits with double payments and 3 consecutive months with two payments within the same month are avoided. In addition, it is proposed that the payment deadlines for companies that calculate VAT on a monthly basis be postponed for the months of July and August 2020 by 15 and 7 days respectively, so that the monthly settlement companies have a more lenient transition to normal payment deadlines. In the case of medium-sized enterprises, it is proposed that the VAT periods consisting of the third and fourth quarters of 2020 should be aggregated, thereby postponing the payment deadline for the third quarter to coincide with the payment deadline for the fourth quarter. To this end, a number of temporary relaxations are proposed to the rules on full tax liability, the rules on lighter taxation of foreign wage income, Section 33 A of the law on equations, and the rules on the researcher tax regime. This avoids, among other things: foreign dancers, posted and persons on the research tax scheme are transferred to ordinary Danish taxation due to the situation of covid-19. It is proposed that the proposal be dealt with urgently so that the companies concerned can benefit from the proposal as soon as possible. The proposal to postpone payment deadlines requires a number of system changes in the tax administration's systems, which means that the draft law needs to enter into force by 15 June 2020. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111901	There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604111924	In March, a comprehensive Parliament agreed to temporarily postpone the companies' payment periods for A-tax, labour market contributions and VAT. In this way, the companies were given the opportunity to have the funds at their disposal longer. Measures have strengthened corporate liquidity in the second quarter of 2020 and companies can now look forward to the deferred payments falling mainly in the third quarter and will therefore squeeze liquidity in the third quarter. The government has set up an expert group which proposes a more relaxed return to normal payment periods for A tax, labour market contributions and VAT. Specifically, it is proposed that the payment deadlines for A-tax and labour market contributions for August, September and October be postponed by 41⁄2, 51⁄2 and 61⁄2 months respectively, that a gradual phasing-out of the extended payment periods for VAT for large enterprises should be introduced, so that the deadline for July 2020 is postponed by 15 days and the deadline for August is postponed by 7 days, and that the tax period for VAT for the third quarter of 2020 for medium-sized enterprises should be added to the tax period for the fourth quarter. In this way, the VAT for the total period will have to be paid no later than 1 March. In addition, the draft law provides for some temporary reliefs for e.g.: foreign dancers, seconded persons and persons on the research tax scheme. The Left can support the bill as it provides companies with additional liquidity and ensures a fiscally sustainable situation for foreign dancers, seconded persons and persons on the research tax scheme. It would be a pity if a squeezed liquidity in the third quarter were to spoil the good results that the aid packages have produced so far. It can be a matter of life or death for many companies. It is essential to help businesses, thereby supporting jobs and job creation. Therefore, it is essential to have a wise normalisation through deferred deadlines. We in the Left in particular welcome the fact that a clarification was finally made in relation to foreign dancers and seconded persons. The Left has asked questions and pressured the Minister to address this issue. It is good that the Minister has now finished his perhaps a little too long deliberations and has now come up with a proposal. But we're worried. Denmark is in a very serious economic crisis. The unemployment line has grown by nearly 50,000 in a short time, and 200,000 are still on wage compensation. The rise in unemployment must be halted and the many private jobs that have been lost must be recovered. It is fine that the government postpones payment deadlines, but in the Left we do not think that is enough. We know that taxes are behavior-regulating, and that is why we are eagerly waiting for what the government will make of proposals in the field of taxation. In the Left we will restart Danish economy. That is why we have proposed bringing forward tax cuts for approx. 4.5 billion kr., so they get full effect already this year. This will ensure more money between the hands of the Danes and boost domestic consumption, which has been underturned for several months because of the closure of Denmark. We will, for example: bring forward the abolition of the PRS tax and the increase in the employment allowance. It will now and here give ordinary Danes throughout the country more money between their hands and increase the competitiveness of Danish companies. That is what the Left wants, but the question is: what does the government want? With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112306	Thank you. I do not see any brief comments, and we can therefore thank the rapporteur, and we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112323	The reason for this bill is, of course, the covid-19 crisis, which in the first place arose as a health crisis, but the aftermath is very much of an economic nature and has economic challenges. In recognition of it, a unanimous Parliament adopted back in March that the payment of A and B taxes, labour market contributions and VAT could be deferred. It's a good thing we did it, and it wasn't unnecessary. This also meant that cash flow was improved in the companies. This draft law proposes that, in most cases, time limits should be postponed further, so that a more relaxed return to normal payment deadlines can take place. We support this in the Danish People's Party. If we look at it in concrete terms, the payment of the A tax for the months August, September and October will be moved to the end of January, March and May respectively. For VAT, the payment for medium-sized companies will be moved, so VAT for the third quarter would not be paid until 1 March next year. For large companies, the deadline is also shifted, but not so much. These are all good changes. But there is something that puzzles us in the Danish People's Party, and that is why the payment of B-tax is not postponed at the same time and why the deadlines for the small companies are not moved either. You can use the extra liquidity to such an extent. That tells us all the feedback we get from the players. Both are systems which will improve liquidity, and we hope, of course, that we will be able to incorporate it into the government's legislative proposal until the second reading. There is also another element in the bill which deals with foreign dancers who have been affected by the corona crisis. It deals with situations where you can become fully taxable in Denmark because you stay too many days in the country, but because of corona you cannot travel out. One gets the opportunity to ignore it for a period when the number of days is increased. This is what we in the Danish People's Party think makes sense in the specific situation. There is also a temporary relaxation of the researcher tax scheme, which must address the situations in which employees under the scheme, for example: has temporarily gone down in wages to help the company through the crisis or has not been able to be here in the country. In the Danish People's Party, we are not particularly enthusiastic about the research tax scheme, but believe that these are pragmatic solutions to the challenges of the covid-19 crisis for the affected employees and the companies that have employees on the scheme. So, overall, I can mention that we believe that we should bring in the VAT and payment rules for small companies and be included in the legislative proposal. It is also in relation to the payment of B-tax. However, in addition to that and with the amendments we hope to be able to come here, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112637	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we can move on to Mrs Olldag Ollyday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112648	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we are satisfied with this proposal, which, after all, is keeping its hands on companies and which enables us to dismantle the various aid packages. It is also important, as far as taxation is concerned, to take note when our IT systems work, and they have done so in this case, so that it has been quite easy to manage the various aid packages here and it will also be quite easy to manage the phasing-out of them. Finally, in the Radical Left too, we find it extremely gratifying that a helping hand is now being given to so-called expats, that is. foreign employees in companies and foreign students. Just as the Left has noted, we would also like to add that it was about time. But in addition, of course, it is really, really good and pleasing, and by doing so we also support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112743	Thank you. No brief remarks, and that is why it is now Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112750	Thank you. I will be very brief, because I really think many wise things have been said from the platform already. It is important that we elected representatives take responsibility for our society in this difficult time, when covid-19 has come reasonably under control in Denmark, but still pulls a long slipstream of economic consequences after it. I am therefore pleased that we can continue to hold a hand under the companies and their employees with this bill. In relation to the researcher's tax scheme, I actually share the views of the Danish People's Party, but I think that the solution found in the proposal here is pragmatic and excellent. In addition, it makes sense, among other things. to further postpone the payment deadline for A-tax and labour market contributions and VAT, thereby strengthening the liquidity of companies. The Socialist People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112837	Thank you. And no brief remarks here either. Now it's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604112847	We can support this bill from Enhedslisten to start with the conclusion. We support the postponement of the payment of A-tax and labour market contributions for the months August, September and October until the first half of 2021, and we also support the extension of the VAT deadlines for those companies which calculate VAT monthly. Then the draft law also provides for a relaxation of the rules on full tax liability. As the rules are today, uninterrupted stays in this country for a duration of up to 3 months or up to 180 days in total within 12 months will mean that you are not fully liable. However, if you are over that period, you are taxed on your global income, as is the case if the person is engaged in business activities in this country, except for very peripheral revenue-generating activities. And these are really good rules in the view of Enhedslisten, which should only be dispensed with in special cases. However, we admit that in this coronatid one must say that one is in a special situation, and that is why we can support the fact that, as proposed in the draft law, if the excess is due to stay in Denmark from 9 March until 30 June 2020 at the same time. The same logic also exists in the bill concerning persons who, because of corona, are staying across the 42-day limit and thus, in a tax-technical sense, interrupt their posting or work in another country, whereby they would actually have to pay Danish tax. And we also recognise that it is reasonable to have a derogation here. Then there are a few legal changes in relation to a double taxation agreement with Armenia and in relation to dates and to an increase in tobacco tax. And the corrections are minor fixes. We can support them. Last time there's the science tax scheme. This is an absurd arrangement. You just have to be honest about that. It is an arrangement which means that bank managers • among other things. Managers of Danske Bank make use of this scheme, which includes: The extra magazine written about • has to pay a lower tax rate than a sosu assistant. And it is quite absurd that we have a scheme that means that if you make a lot of money, you will pay lower taxes than a sosu assistant. And it is quite absurd that we should all, through our common tax dollars, provide state aid for people who earn a lot of money to pay lower taxes than what ordinary people pay in Denmark. It's called the researcher tax scheme, but you might as well call it the bank manager scheme. Its precise name is the gross tax scheme for researchers and key employees, and it is about the fact that, if they have not been taxable in Denmark in the last 10 years, they can only pay 32.84 per cent. in tax, although their salaries place them far above the limit of top tax. It should be borne in mind here that many ordinary employees pay between 37 per cent. 40% and 40%. Baby. So what would happen if that system were abolished? Yes, what would happen would happen to all other companies that do not receive state aid to high-paid employees, namely that the company has to pay the employees the wages needed to attract them. The system is also expensive and should be abolished. It is obvious as a funding proposal for the forthcoming financial law negotiations for 2021: it would abolish an absurd scheme and at the same time provide some good tax dollars that we can use to strengthen psychiatry, day care institutions, hospitals in general with staffing more nurses. On the whole, many of the good things that need to be done after many years of cuts and deterioration, and which are necessary to provide funds for the green transition. But even if we do not like the researcher tax scheme, this bill is about some people who, due to some exceptional circumstances, cannot make use of this scheme, yet must be able to make use of the rules that are now in place. And yes, we can live with that. That certainly does not make us vote against the bill. The Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113304	Thank you. The next is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113315	Thank you for the floor. One of the things that has helped and continues to help many companies in these times of crisis is the postponement of tax and VAT. It is not as precise a help • it is not necessarily targeted those who are most affected, nor do those who have no earnings have anything to pay VAT on and, moreover, do not benefit from that particular part. However, the postponement has, of course, helped to strengthen the liquidity of companies, and, as I have said, many people have had and continue to need it. And just as the economic group of experts concludes in their report on phasing out aid packages, we still need help. The bill ensures a slower phasing-out than was planned. Slowly is seldom good, but right here we believe that Conservatives need to withdraw it, because with the lack of reopening and the continued massive restrictions, there is still a need to help secure businesses and jobs. The draft law pushes and relaxes the phasing-out of payment deadlines so that no one is already faced with double payments, i.e. that the deferred amounts do not fall at the same time as ordinary ones in the short run. That's really good. At the same time, we welcome a relaxation of the rules on full tax liability, the rules on lighter taxation of foreign wage income and the rules on the research tax regime. I have been asked a great deal about this, and it is not fair, of course, that foreign dancers, seconded persons and people on the research tax scheme should be placed at a disadvantage because of the crisis than the arrangements we have in this area are precisely aimed at. Because it has not been possible for everyone to follow the rules on how many days you must be in Denmark to be on the special schemes. Changing that part should not go too slowly, as should re-opening, recovery and other restarts. So let's get everything started. I would like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113503	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113511	I would like to commend the Minister for taking action and for pushing this. It is good that we look at what the business community needs and then take decisive action. So I think it is nice and positive, and we can of course support that in New Citizens. From the point of view of the new citizens, we have also raised a small warning flag in the past, in relation to the fact that, when we extend these deadlines, there will also be a greater risk that some people are starting to think about this. But in that there still has to be a payment now and that not everything is being pushed, but it is still going to be so, we also believe that in this way it will be addressed sufficiently to ensure that we are safe about it. So, of course, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113555	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604113607	Thank you. Thank you very much for the broad support for this proposal. I would, of course, like to start by signing for this, but I would also like to sign for the fact that the parties of the Folketing once again support the extraordinary situation in which Denmark finds itself and are also ready to deal with the draft law here in such an extraordinary urgency, as we call it in here. There is no doubt that the Corona crisis has had major economic consequences for Danish society as a whole, and in order to hold hands under Danish jobs and Danish employees, the government and the broad majority have implemented a number of, it can be said, significant aid packages. Among other things: We have added 165 billion to companies. kr. in additional liquidity by postponing the payment of tax and VAT. And the purpose of this proposal is to allow companies to return to the normal payment periods for tax and VAT in a slightly more relaxed way, if you say so. This is also in line with what the government's economic expert group has recommended. In addition, the aim of the draft law, which has also been promoted here today, is to mitigate some of the fiscal consequences, such as: foreign dancers, seconded persons and persons on the research tax scheme are experiencing as a result of the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of covid-19. This is a cash injection for companies of up to 100 billion. kr., and at the same time we are also helping those who are going to get into trouble fiscally because of the restrictions that have been imposed, as I said. Firstly, we propose to extend the payment periods for companies for A tax and labour market contributions for August, September and October by approx. 41⁄2 months, 51⁄2 months and 61⁄2 months. This will give companies more time to consolidate and also avoid double payments 3 months in a row relatively soon after the summer break. With the proposal to extend the payment deadline for these three months, a total of approx. 65 billion kr. This is the only way in which we can make progress in this area. For example, you could take a restaurant with 15 employees. It typically calculates A-tax and labour market contributions for approx. $15,000. a month, which means that it will have a longer payment deadline for a total of some 400,000 kroner. with this proposal. Secondly, it is proposed to extend the payment deadline for large companies for July by 15 days and for August by 7 days. This means that some 32.5 billion will be made available. kr. additionally available for 15 and 7 days respectively. For medium-sized enterprises, it is then proposed to aggregate the third and fourth quarters so that the payment of the total period is postponed until 1 March 2021. Here, for example, a medium-sized enterprise with a turnover of 40 million could be taken. kr. It typically settles VAT for approx. 1.5 million kr. per This is a quarter, which is now postponed by three months. In addition, we also propose to introduce a series of temporary reliefs to help foreign dancers, posted and also persons on the research tax regime, who are currently in an uncertain fiscal situation, as I said, because of the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the corona virus. The proposal creates greater security of taxation for these groups, and I hope that it will create greater security for the individual also in connection with the reopening of Denmark. As I have said, we are in an extraordinary situation and therefore it is important that we all take responsibility and that we back the necessary steps. I am incredibly pleased that in all areas, and especially in the field of taxation, we have been able to deal with these very, very large decisions in broad and total agreement here in the Folketing. I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for this, and I look forward, of course, to discussing the bill in the Committee on Taxation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114029	Thank you. There is just one question from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114038	I should like to start by thanking the Minister for finally choosing to look at the issue of posted Danes, foreign dancers, etc. However, I find it a little regrettable that we have to do this as an urgent legislative proposal. Because if the Minister would have already seen the problem when the Left brought it to his attention in April, we would not have been standing here rushing things through. Because when you rush something through, there's a risk of mistakes. That is why I also have a few questions. One is: Why on June 30th? Can the Minister explain why we are just landing on that date? Because the opening of borders is not a complete escape. So we are a little puzzled about what the reason for that date is. The second is that there is an attachment text stating that foreign dancers, if they work in Denmark, will be taxed in Denmark. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can guarantee that foreign dancers who choose to be limited to Denmark are not taxed by the same income in their country of residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114142	We may be able to answer a little more in depth in the committee, because there are a number of things, at least with regard to the last question of taxation, both if you are here longer than what is provided for in the legislation and how it relates to the work you have here, when you are here longer, in relation to the country you originally live in. Is it a country with which to have a double taxation agreement? That is not entirely unimportant, and that is why I think we should try to clarify the principles in the committee's work. Why on June 30th? I believe that the organisation, which organises some of these employees, who are foreign dancers, had said that it should be extended, and I also believe that employers' organisations had said that it should be extended to the 9. We will then extend to the 30th. And the reasons for this are that it gives more time for the individual to plan the journey that many people must have for their, if you like, temporary working country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114243	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114247	Thanks for the answers. I heard the Minister say: I think one is based on the other. And then the Minister also mentioned all the double taxation schemes and a lot of other things. It is a hell of a technical and hell of a complex matter, and that is why we in the Left think it is a pity that we have to make it as an urgent proposal, rather than having had plenty of time in committee to look at all the issues. So it is just to say that I hope that the Minister next time the Left brings something, listens a little faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114317	I would say that, when we were in this Chamber, I had the impression that it was extremely urgent for the Left to get this through. That is why I am now surprised that it is not so urgent. In other words, the government has chosen to implement this because we think it is a good proposal and because some have got into a mess. That is why I am glad that we can see that there is such broad support in this Chamber for this. We are happy to answer all the questions that are, and this is a complicated field of tax rules and agreements and international conventions and other things that we are in here. I am quite convinced of the support that has been given to this by the professional organisations that we have hit a little bit with this. But, of course, we are happy to answer all questions. The aim, in addition to helping companies with extra liquidity, is to ensure that those who have jobs abroad, but are in Denmark because of the restrictions, get a little more relaxed conditions. I think that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114407	Thank you. There are no more questions, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114435	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604114449	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on updating the investigation of power, which was a comprehensive research project initiated at the initiative of the Danish Parliament and intended to analyse the situation of the Danish people's government in the transition to the 21st century. It is a research project that I myself have had the pleasure of sticking my nose in several times, and as it does, I must admit political and research geek, I am, I have also found very, very much interest in it. What the proposers want with motion for a resolution B 138 is for the government to now set up a wide range of experts from universities, companies, trade unions, associations, etc. to produce an up-to-date version of this very analysis of power with special focus on political life, media and association life. The proposers also want the government to re-acquire the domain www.mightudredning.dk and to document the process of updating the explanation of power on an ongoing basis. Let me start by stating that I fully share the interest in how our democracy develops, that we must, of course, keep an eye on power and how access to meddling in that power develops. The conditions of the people's regime are constantly changing with the development of society, and e.g. we can see that the digital introduction of social media in itself has given a completely changed media image. And it makes sense to have a research basis for the debate on the state of the people's regime and the question of how we can strengthen and bring more people into the democratic community. This is important and we have challenges. Fortunately, we also have skilled researchers at the Danish universities who are dealing with these very topics, and this is an important research effort. I would also like to stress that this ongoing debate on power and the rule of the people is healthy and important, and of course both I and the entire government are happy to discuss this with the Danish Parliament. There are a number of assertions and assessments in the justification for the concrete resolution that the government does not share, but the government fully agrees that basically it is a good idea to learn more about Danish democracy and there are many interesting and important issues to address. Personally, I think, for example, that this growing distrust of politicians and systems is something we should all concern ourselves with. How is it that we come to a different track from what we are experiencing in the Western world right now, when an increasing number of people do not think we are there for them, that we are dealing with the everyday problems of them, that we are at all relevant in representing them and their everyday life? The growing distrust has resulted in a number of different wrestlings and a number of different elections in the Western world in recent times, which I would have liked to have seen differently, and I would very much like the growing mistrust to be something we could turn in a different direction. In order to do so, I think it is important to highlight the development and background of this mistrust, including research, perhaps also internationally, because it is not only in Denmark that this is happening. Inequality in democratic participation is another point that worries me and that I think we should be more interested in politically, but at the same time we also see a trend with falling numbers in the parties and where the democratic conversation has taken on a new character with the introduction of social media. All of this has to be discussed, discussed, must be given our attention and, of course, very much supported by knowledge and research. That is why I am also fully interested in that knowledge constantly being given us and that research is being carried out, and if there is an interest in even more research into the state of the people's regime and in popular participation, it is something that I, at least as a minister, am very interested in discussing when we have our annual negotiations on the research reserve, where we have money on the table, which we can politically prioritise, among other things. for projects like this. At the same time, I would like to stress that if you go that way and want an extra funding for research in this area, I think it is an important political consideration here today for us to take responsibility for the fact that it will be with political arm's length. On the other hand, we have excellent opportunities to do so, including in the area of the environment. through the Danish Free Research Fund, but it is, I think, a fundamental premise to take along if we are really to be able to use those results for something in our future political work and, of course, very much to strengthen our common democracy. If it is organised on an arm's length basis, it will provide a more objective research basis than the organisation proposed in the motion for a resolution, which suggests that a number of stakeholders should prepare a study. So to sum up: there are a lot of things in our democracy that we have to discuss on a regular basis. There is also a great deal that we can learn more about and where things are evolving at a rate that we have not seen before, for example. With our media image and our social media and the democratic conversation, but because the resolution is knitted together as it is, we cannot support this specific motion for a resolution No. B 138 in its present form, but the debate is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115132	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115138	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research whether it would at all be possible for the opposition to draw up such a resolution in a way that the government would vote in favour, or whether it has in fact just been looking for grounds to vote against. For that was quite a lot of praise for an introduction, and then it was something about the fact that it was not for stakeholders to be involved in the process, but it does not say anything about that either. It says that it must be a wide range of experts, and experts are not necessarily people who are involved in one way or another. So how does the Minister imagine that this can be composed in a way that the government can live with? I must point out that in the press there are people from among others. The University of Southern Denmark, which has been supporting the proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here, is therefore people from the world of research. One of the main guys responsible for the previous investigation of power, sir. Jørgen Goul Andersen has previously supported etc. So the government is just looking for an excuse to say no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115236	It was a yes/no question. No, the government is not just looking for excuses to say no. In fact, we would really like to have an ongoing discussion and knowledge-based discussion on how our democracy develops, but it should be with arm's lengths. It must be politically independent, and it is really, really important, I think, for what we can use it for in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115259	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115301	That's what I don't understand. I can read out here the first line of the proposal: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to set up a wide range of experts from universities, companies, trade unions, associations, etc. to prepare an up-to-date version of the investigation of power. It doesn't say here that there shouldn't be an arm's length tax. What kind of word should the Minister have had for covering that alibi?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115330	In fact, there is no need for an alibi at all. On the contrary, as Minister for Research, I am interested that if we are going to use this sober and really, it will also be research. I think it is better, for example. in Denmark's Free Research Foundation, independently of the stakeholders who the proposer reads and who in many contexts will themselves be the subject of this study. There is power in the stakeholders the proposer reads and, of course, we should not investigate ourselves. We, as politicians, should not do that, but neither should we as social stakeholders and actors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115402	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115412	Thanks for the speech. It is a rather simple question: is it the case that when we allocate the research reserve in the autumn, we can put a project like this, but with the reservations of the government, and then we can use some of the research reserve to carry out a similar project?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115434	We can do so if we can agree on this together and give it political priority. Then it is at the table that both money and research policy priorities are present. So we can if we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115447	Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115451	Does this mean that we can count on the Minister, of his own motion, to take the initiative in formulating a proposal for a clarification of power to examine the issues described here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115507	See, that's a completely different question. Because can we? Yes, we can. But can I stand here and tell you what's going to be in the government's financial bill? I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115514	Thank you. At first sight, there are no more questioners. Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115528	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating here has been tabled by the Danish People's Party, and it will require the government to set up a wide range of experts to prepare an updated version of the investigation of power and, above all, to acquire a domain for that purpose. This is an interesting debate which we in the Socialist Group welcome. In the comments to the proposal, the proposers point out that a lot has changed since the final disclosure of power was launched in 2003. Democracy and society have changed, technology has evolved, and we have seen signs of increasing polarisation and falling confidence in systems, media and politicians. So we share the analysis that much has changed, and we admit that it also gives rise to reflection, not only on the changes that have taken place, but also on whether the causes and consequences of these changes have indeed been clarified today, and whether we have the necessary knowledge brought to the table, so that we politicians and society as a whole can ensure that democracy is alive and healthy. After all, the social media have fundamentally changed the democratic conversation. Suddenly, all people have a public mouthpiece, and it has great potential. Access to politicians and decision-makers has also become easier. At the same time, however, we also see that the debate on social media has a tough tone. The fronts are pulled up sharply and often the debate drives us further apart instead of making us wiser and more curious at the opposite point of view. The tough tone of the debate also prevents many Danes from participating. At the same time, we now have access to direct news from all over the world for 24 hours. It has great potential for better information, but it has also changed the basic conditions of media coverage of policy. More news needs to be produced at a faster pace. The traditional media are challenged by new media types, and an increasing proportion of the population have social media as their primary source of news without necessarily questioning the real source of the news. Therefore, false news can spread much faster and wider than before. But democracy is not only challenged by the invasion of social media and a changed media image. Falling support for the political parties challenges both the legitimacy of our parties, but worst of all, this means that the role of the parties as popular organisations with the threads out throughout society to engage and involve the Danes in politics has diminished. And among the Danes we see an increasing inequality in who is involved in democracy. Although the turnout is high in elections in Denmark, there is a huge difference between the participation of cash aid recipients and academics or the turnout of young and old people, and there is a big difference between who participates in the association work and who engages in the popular organisations. If we look beyond the Danish borders and look at the state of democracy around us, we must also note that we are not alone. Everywhere in the world, democracy and democracies are under pressure. Where democracy flourished 10 and 20 years ago, it is now retreating, and in the Western world we see an ever-increasing distrust of politicians and the political system. There may therefore be good reason to take the temperature of our democracy and reflect on what has happened since 2003. Too much has changed. We in the Social Democratic Party would like to help discuss this with the other parties in the Folketing, not least whether we have the necessary knowledge today to understand the movements that are taking place in our democracy. But should it just be an update of the investigation of power with a certain type of working group, and where the domain is determined in advance? I am not necessarily sure, because I do not think we will necessarily get the answers we are looking for if we just repeat the exercise from the last. That is why we cannot support the proposal in its present form. The previous investigation of power was, after all, a relatively expensive and relatively long-range affair, and we must then consider in committee whether we can find a smarter way of getting smarter, which may even relate to or play with the research already going on. However, as I said, we are ready for a dialogue on whether we have the necessary research into democracy today and whether it would be meaningful to start work to make us wiser. I look forward to the further discussion of the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115947	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604115949	Thank you. I would like the Socialist rapporteur to be a little specific about what he wants. Because if, like the minister, one agrees with the problem, that is that the Danish society has changed significantly, it can be difficult today to see through legislative processes and the role of social media; the way in which the executive organises itself in the face of legislative power, etc. Kasper Sand Kjær imagines that we can do it? If the model that we have presented here and which, if I may say so, is not supported by at least two professors and a lecturer at the University of Southern Denmark, then how is it to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120033	I do not think that we should necessarily commit ourselves to a concrete model right now. I think it calls for more discussion and dialogue on what exactly we need to do for work. We need to find out what kind of research that has also been going on since 2003. How can we do something that is playing with it, and is it necessarily a long, long process of a huge dyke research project, which is the right answer, or could it be pluralism in various projects? I think all this could be exciting to discuss with the proposer and the other parties in the Folketing too, so how best to ensure that we have the necessary knowledge in the very important conversation about how to ensure that our democracy is alive and healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120115	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120116	With all due respect, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, that very often, when people say they want to have a dialogue, it is because they do not just know what to bid for themselves in that dialogue and therefore await others. That is why it would just be nice to have the Social Democrats say that we agree with the intention here and that you can see the issues and all those fine words that we hear from both Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær and the Minister, if you could be a little bit concrete. Well, what does Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær tell you that this dialogue has to take place? It is a good thing to have a dialogue if both or more parties have some ideas to offer in the circle of dialogue that Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær imagines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120151	But with all due respect, sir. Morten Messerschmid, that I think you are jumping quite quickly to the conclusion of what we need. Because I really think that we need first and foremost a dialogue and a conversation with each other about what we need to uncover. And then we can then take it with what the concrete form should be. But it's a sincere invitation to a dialogue about what challenges we see out there in common across the parties of the Folketing and how can we make sure we get the knowledge we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120219	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120231	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution and Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt. I think it is a good, well worked out and very, very sensible motion for a resolution, on which I am sorry that the Confederal Group of the European United Left is not a co-author. I wish. I also wish that during our reign we had delivered on what is called for in the motion for a resolution, namely an update of the explanation of power. So praise and recognition and also a little envy that the Danish People's Party here has moved faster than the Left. Then I would say that the reason why we think this is a good idea is because that is something that should be justified not only because the motion for a resolution refers to something, Mr President. Bertel Haarder has said, but because the power has moved since the latest elucidation of power. After all, we need to be aware and aware of this, and the people must also be aware of this. One of the things I am particularly sorry about is that power has moved from this room, this hall we find ourselves in, to all sorts of other places. To be quite honest, too: into closed rooms, in conciliation circles, in ministries. I can tell you myself with my ministerial experience, namely that it is the easiest thing for a government to move it in there. It's always a shame when it goes public. There's got to be a classified room. There must be an opportunity to negotiate as a minister, but there must also be an open, public and real political process in the Folketing. Too many members of parliament, including myself, spend too long in front of a rolling TV camera and too little time in this hall. It affects our quality of law, and it turns out as distrust, not only to public institutions and to changing governments, but also to the Folketing and us elected representatives. I do not think it is to criticise those who are newly elected in Parliament that the way Parliament works today was the way it worked when I was elected in 2007, and unfortunately I think that it has gone in the wrong direction. It would show up in an elucidation of power. We need some empiri and some research on that, and we also need to get back to some of the virtues of parliamentary work that previously characterized the Folketing and which has a huge value for the people's regime, also a much greater value than that we politicians stand and argue in Clement Kjærsgaard's debate or on TV 2 News, which very many members of parliament spend a great deal of their time on. It is not to criticize it, but it is just to note that the Folketing has increasingly developed into a debating club rather than being some who exercise active parliamentary control over the government and test the quality of the law. We need an explanation of power in order to get it proven and clarified and to get the constructive parliamentary debate started on how we can then change it. That is why we think it is an excellent proposal. But I also heard what the Minister said, and that is why I would like to give the government an opportunity to then deliver on some of the positive words. If the government won't vote for this resolution, what does the government want? Although I would like to vote down the government, I would actually rather deliver on the content of the proposal, so there should be a call from here to the Minister and to the government for between the first reading that we have here and the second reading that the proposers will certainly require to look at whether we could not reach agreement on anything. And if we can do it, we can do it, we think it's really good. If we cannot do so, it will be put to the vote and then I can say that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. However, there are also some things in here that we would have written a little differently. We think it is very important that there should be some speed in a future investigation of power. On the one hand, it took a long time for politicians to agree on what was to be done last time, and on the other it took a long time for scientists to study the results. We need it to move a little faster. There are also some things that we think are more important than anything else in the proposal. So we hope that it could be possible to see whether agreement could be reached and that the proposal could not be put to the vote. Of course, this must also be done in dialogue with the proposers if the proposers so wish. But then I do not think I can say anything more positive. The last thing I have to say and announce here is that we in the Left want the proposal paralleled in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure where we believe that such a proposal actually belongs. So it is a wish, i.e. that we should have a parallel reading in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120732	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120735	Well, it sounds like sir. Karsten Lauritzen and Dansk Folkeparti look very similar to the challenges faced by the people's regime and faced by Danish society and democracy. I have no memory of having heard such a positive rapporteur talk about a proposal from the Danish People's Party for quite a long time, so I would just like to sign for that. And then I would say that in the way in which the motion for a resolution is drafted, it contains no implicit wish that it should again take ten years. There is no mention of the time perspective we envisage, but I would just like to agree with what the rapporteur of the Left says that it must of course be done more quickly. This is, of course, highlighted by the serious situation in which we find ourselves, I think, quite broadly agree. So let's finally get started, whether it's pressing the button or pressing the government's stomach. We'll find out. The important thing is that it is the matter that counts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120836	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120838	Thank you. That last point I fully agree with, sir. Morten Messerschmide i. And then I can say that it is true that the praise or love of the Left, if you like, to the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party in this case is great, but it is because we think the proposal is very good and almost one by one is what we think. So if the Danish People's Party wants to make more proposals which contain the policy of the Left, then we will have just as positive and commending rapporteur speeches as the one I have put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120909	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has 5 minutes now and 5 minutes at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604120920	Most people in this Chamber probably remember the year 2003, and most people probably remember the year 1994, but that was a long time ago. It's like time just goes faster and faster. When the latest elucidation of power was launched, Facebook was not yet founded, Twitter was not founded, and we had still gone the first iPhone for good and think about how much it fills today, also in political life. We have an American president who almost rules per person. Twitter, and we have members of parliament who are in the process of voting, etc. and record videos to put them on Facebook. It all happens on our phones, which were used until recently to talk in, but it is almost a secondary function today. So it has to be said that society is a completely different one and that many of the conclusions that the committee behind the disclosure of power made in their thorough work no longer reflect the society we have. That is why I welcome the positive comments that have so far been made on this proposal, because it is basically about our democracy and, as the Minister said, about confidence in the democratic society that we have chosen and which we all support. After all, this proposal forms part of a debate which we already have on precisely what the rapporteur of the Left was talking about, namely the balance of power between the government, the executive, and the Folketing as the body responsible for controlling the government. That is why, I think, when you hear the government and the two representatives of the governing party, it is extremely important that you also listen to what is said between the lines. In fact, when it comes to democracy, we have to disregard our individual party interests and interests and focus on the fact that the way in which Danish democracy works must be fair, transparent and fair, regardless of who the electorate or parliament sends out to the government offices. There are elements, even within what has happened in recent years or in recent years, that should make the warning lights shine. It's not just something the opposition can see. As I have said, this is also something that can be seen in the academic world, among other things. from the SDU, where in Berlingske here for approx. 14 days ago we read in a chronicle that several people agreed with the resolution we have here, precisely because there is a centralisation of power in the government. We now have decision-making bodies with members who are not members of the government, etc. And it is a dangerous development if it is not balanced with initiatives that also strengthen the Folketing. This kind of thing, the role of social media, the relationship between the Folketing and the government, the importance of the whole of civil society today, where you may spend more time on your iPhone than on being with your immediate family, we need to get an accurate and sober basis so that we can ensure that the exercise of power that we exercise on behalf of the Danes takes place in a proper way. That is why, as rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, I wanted to speak here in order to clarify what the current situation is, and I look forward to hearing the subsequent rapporteurs before I have the opportunity to sum up. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121326	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121342	Thank you very much. This is a very interesting motion for a resolution, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has put forward here. In the Radical Left, we are very strong advocates of openness and to look at power. This ensures transparency, responsibility and trust. It is always wise to keep an eye on power in order to protect our democracy, and there is no doubt, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has just explained that a great deal has happened since the final investigation of power was completed. Social media have come to and have changed the democratic conversation for good and bad. The old media have had to adapt to a whole new reality, and all citizens in Denmark and the rest of the world do. Now we must not only navigate in a sea of news; now false news has been deliberately planted. It is not a new phenomenon in itself, but today it has become much easier and faster to spread false news with great consequences. Just look at the recent presidential elections in the United States, where major policy is now being pursued on Twitter. But it is not just a problem in other countries. Before I got my day-to-day walk in here at Christiansborg, I had participated for many years in debates about everything from vaccines and evolution to climate change and as some of the latest 5G • all topics where fake news plays a huge role and helps to mute the picture with potentially major consequences. We have seen how false news can destroy confidence in our vaccination programmes and create confusion about the consequences of global climate change. But also in our daily lives in here at Christiansborg, it is especially necessary to look at how power is managed, how decisions are made, who advises, what the role of the media is, and how the cooperation with stakeholders is. If there is to continue to be trust and support for our people's rule, we must be able to endure a critical review ourselves, and I am pleased to hear that all rapporteurs have so far supported this. Whether it is necessarily the same process as it was 20 years ago, I am not convinced, but it is quite obvious in the interest of the people to start the process, and that is why I believe it is the responsibility of the Folketing to do so. In the Radical Left, we believe that the resolution should be moved to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure so that they can take on the task of uncovering the best way forward, for, of course, the most important thing, as the Minister also mentioned, is that this is done independently and with an arm's length arm for both the Folketing and the government. But I think it is a very sympathetic proposal and I look forward to further committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121623	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmide for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121626	It is only too short to give a confirmation, and it is also because I did not mention Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, that we have no objection to putting it here in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, nor if it is to be a parallel process or how we do it. I think that is perfectly natural. So we will certainly find out, and I would just like to say thank you for meeting here as Parliament and not as parties. I think that's something that brings honor to the people's government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121652	Here you go, if you want to comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121655	There's not much to say about that, thank you. I am told that there is broad agreement that this is important and that this is something we need to discuss further. I heard that from the Socialists too. This is something we need to discuss and discuss, so I do not think we are as far apart as it may sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121712	Thank you. The next is Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121719	Thank you. It is extremely important to keep an eye on the development of power in Denmark and our democracy. Who has the power? Is that the politicians? Is it a particular group of citizens? Is it really the media that controls the agenda? It is really important to keep an eye on this, as does the previous investigation of power from 2003. Therefore, in SF, it is good that Dansk Folkeparti with this proposal focuses on the distribution of power in Denmark. Because I do not think there are many who disagree with the fact that our society has evolved since the first investigation 17 years ago and looks significantly different than it did then. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself says that most people probably remember the year 2003. I can barely do that, but I can guarantee that I do not remember the year 1994, because that was the year I was born, and that is probably a few years ago, 25 years ago. In the first analysis, there is also no focus on social media and their influence on our society and the political debate. And if we are to be completely honest, most of us today will probably not be able to do without checking, posting and following today's news on Facebook, Twitter and all sorts of other platforms that have become a permanent part of our work and our privacy. Our society and everyday life have changed, and therefore there is a good reason to expect that the distribution of power has also changed. That is why it makes good sense for us to re-examine how it is distributed. However, we are rather concerned about the proposal as it stands here. Firstly, it does not contain a financing model, and there is no doubt that there will be high costs associated with a thorough study of the distribution of power in Danish society, and the funding must be in place. Secondly, we also need to clarify exactly what is needed in this update. What research has been done in this area since 2003, and what is missing? That is why I cannot say unequivocally at this stage that we support the proposal, but we look forward to the further work in committee and hope that we can reach a common understanding and a solution for a new clarification of power. And then I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that they have the same attitude as us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121942	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604121945	First of all, I would just like to congratulate both the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten rapporteurs on this very, very high discipline in relation to the economics. It's a good thing some people have eyes on it. I'm glad. But if we all agree in the Folketing that this is a good idea, can't we solve it? In the exchange with the rapporteur of the Left, it was quite clear that it is not something that will again take ten years. Some research has already been done which can be considered, etc. Now we have to see what the government brings on top of the Left's invitation, so to speak. However, if this were to be put to the vote, would it not be a little strange if Mrs Astrid Carøe and the Enhedslisten were to vote against us having a new explanation of Danish democracy 2020? It's not that much money we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122044	Last time it cost 50 million. kr., I've been told. I think that is a lot of money when it is unfunded, and that is why it is our position, and that is why we should have looked at it in committee with the Minister, so that hopefully we can also find a solution to it, because in the SF we would also very much like a new explanation of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122101	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122120	Where is the power, and how, and especially how, are politicians affected? These are important issues raised in the DF's motion for a resolution, which emerged among other things. by the Democracy Commission. We know the answers to most of it. We are all affected every day by the news media, by the urge to get on TV 2 NEWS with a quick statement, by social media that we follow and take care of daily, by lobbyists and actors and close partners in the form of organisations of interest, trade unions and hinterland and, of course, by the many citizen visits we get. There are a lot of interests to balance between, and then there are spin doctors and press advisors. I remember myself when I worked in the Central Administration, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the end of the 00s, when the spin doctors began their intrusion. The elevator-like process of handling the office, the system to the Minister and back again, often had to take a 90-degree turn. A relatively young person who had no or only very limited knowledge of the area and the many considerations behind the proposal had to suddenly act as a taster. It created a gap between the official work and the minister. It was confusing and quite annoying when it led to inappropriate decisions. Today spin doctors have also become political advisors and crept right into the political epicenter. Poul Schlüter says in his recent biography that spin doctors are a quite terrible phenomenon. In his ten years as prime minister, Schlüter did not have a single spin doctor, and he himself kept in touch with the media. Time, of course, was different under Schlüter. Nor were there any different television programmes with political commentators to which we are all listening. There was no internet and e-mails 24-7. Time pressure is another factor that can make politicians more vulnerable to rapid impact. Everyone can follow what is going on in the Chamber and who is not contacted at the last minute by a public affair adviser or an interest organization? Transparency is, of course, good, but the integrity of the political space is important to safeguard. Otherwise, of course, you cannot know how much there is party politics and the position or proposals of the rapporteurs, or whether they are just a mouthpiece for external affairs. That must never happen. The danger is that it may be partly unnoticed. It is important to be able to stand firm, as Svend Brinkmann here would say. International powers also have their influence. Recently, we have seen how China has affected the European Union in the context of a critical report on covid-19. What is power? There are several concepts. Power is related, and power works through all of us, as Foucault says, and it is constantly creating us in different ways. Power has its own discourseful life that no one is aware of or in control of. We are all victims and co-creators. So is there a need for an explanation of power with a focus on political life, media and community life? Yes, we believe that in the Conservative People's Party. We would like to support an investigation of power, of course, on the basis of clear principles of great distance. It must be external and be available to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as has already been said. But the question is whether it should be now. We do not think so for two reasons. Firstly, over the last three months during the covid-19, we have given so much authority to a government that I had never dreamed of. It has been a delicate balance between health, safety, economics and rights. Secondly, the covid-19 crisis will cost Danish society a lot of money, and we do not know the bill yet. Are we going to export quite a lot this year? We therefore believe that we should wait and see what the bill will be for the covid-19. Perhaps the Danes do not think it is most important that we do this before we know how our own society gets back on track. We say yes to an explanation, but we think it should be considered when it should be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122538	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122540	First, thank you for the good words of the first two thirds of the speech; I liked to hear that. I could not quite understand whether this meant that if this were to be put to the vote, we would be able to count on the Conservatives or not. And there I would just say, in the hope that we can, that there is nothing about the time perspective in the motion for a resolution. In other words, we are quite willing to wait for the worst of the epidemic to end, and perhaps even for the emergency laws to be suspended and so on. So if that is the argument, I would just like to point out that there is no time in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122625	Well, thank you for that clarification, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I think it's important that we just look at the timing of this. But in the Conservative People's Party, we want to embrace this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122637	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122640	And I'm really glad about that. It is just me who may not quite understand the choice of words: does it mean embracing a proposal, then voting green if it comes to the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122650	Yes, we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122655	There are no more brief comments. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122702	Thank you for the floor. Many years have passed since the announcement of power came back in 2003 as a concluding report. Society has evolved, technology has changed, public space has changed, the relationship between legislators, interest groups, administration and government has changed, and thus power has probably also shifted. When we want a living democracy that adapts to the changing nature of the world, we must of course also accept that there are shifts in power. Some conquer greater influence, formally or informally, while others lose influence. That is the way it is, and we should not try to stop that dynamic. However, as legislators and as a population, we must know and understand what is happening around us. Only with knowledge and insight can we act with reason to ensure that democracy and the rule of the people thrive under the conditions that the world offers us. That is why we in the New Citizens welcome this resolution, which we will support. I would like to outline a few points which are important to us and which break with the somewhat polemical line put by the authors of the motion for a resolution. Firstly, we believe that this should be a research project anchored in the university world. Of course, researchers need to be broad-minded in society, but we would be concerned about watering down the research focus if interested organisations have certain influences on the project. Secondly, a mandate for the investigation of power should point out that the research team must look ahead and indicate which trends and developments can be seen from the outlines and what they may mean for democracy, lead to shifts of power and how they can influence public conversation in the future. Thirdly, it is important for us that the research team should include scientists who specialise in the technical and scientific fields. The acquisition of new knowledge in science and the development of new technologies goes very quickly and increasingly affects the way we live and the way society is organised, and with all due respect for social science, more insights will produce a better result. With these comments, the motion for a resolution can be supported by new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122910	For that. And the last one, sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604122920	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution B 138 is an excellent motion for a resolution which we support in the Liberal Alliance. I think many good and sharp things have already been said. Karsten Lauritzen's remarks about how different the Danish Parliament worked in the past are something that I have thought a lot about last summer to read the two volumes about the reign of Anker Jørgensen and Poul Schlüter, and it was a little difficult to keep up with sometimes, although I myself am Mf'er, because the Folketing had a different Rules of Procedure at that time and there actually happened much more in the Parliament hall than there is now. It was quite common for governments at the time to go down to the Chamber without knowing whether there was a majority for the things that were put forward or not. Such a thing would never happen today, when everything has been agreed in advance. But I do not want to start where most other speakers have started. I will take a personal starting point, because there are only a few weeks until I have a five-year anniversary as a member of the Folketing, and at the same time I am also a member of a party which spent two and a half years in government during the previous parliamentary term. One of the things I have often felt in the past five years is strangely impotent. And if you think about the Constitution and what the Constitution says about where power is, it is incredibly strange that you can be a member of the Folketing and a member of a governing party, and that the feeling that hits you over and over is the feeling of impotence. That cannot be right; one would think that it was a feeling of power that hits members of parliament, ministers and members of government parties. And I am not thinking of the trivial impotence that every politician knows from his everyday life. It is true that we do not always get our views across at the group meeting; it is true that the other parties have not chosen to implement one's own party programme, and that is why compromises have to be made. That's banal. That's how you learn to live with. But the impotence felt as a member of the Folketing, i.e. the serious impotence, I think, is due to the fact that power is in some places other than we have access to as members of the Folketing. It is among other things. in the central administration among the many Sir Humphreyer who have their way there. After all, Margaret Thatcher was absolutely convinced that the document for the series "Yes Minister" and "Yes," Prime Minister· was recordings with hidden camera from her own office.She maintained that on several occasions, that is, that she believed that the series must have become that way. The media and social media set agendas, they make echo chambers, they promote fake news, as Mr. Stinus Lindgreen said. This is an important aspect of few people. There is a mysterious gesture that we often talk about in this Chamber, which is the so-called international commitments that no one really knows what is. And then we have several times, and that's something that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has also been good at having activism and court activism on the agenda. We also tried to do something about it during the previous parliamentary term while we had the Presidency of the Council of Europe, but we did not get very far. There is also the whole issue of activism in the European Court of Justice, which is a very serious issue. And I believe that this is where the impotence comes from; I think it comes from all these bodies that are pulling power out of the Parliamentary Chamber, even though the Constitution actually states that we are in charge. I don't think you feel that much in everyday life, but the last time I looked for, I think you could sum up the constitution in that way. So that's a good suggestion, and it's good to have this shift of power mapped out. I assume that's what I'm hearing from Mr. Knox. Morten Messerskommanden that if and when this happens, there will be such a closer discussion among those who back up about exactly how we do things. And I also have a proposal for funding, because there is a research reserve, and there might be an agreement when it comes to allocating it in the autumn. But thank you for a very good proposal, which we are very pleased and happy to support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604123401	Thank you. And then it's sir. Mr Morten Messerschmidt as rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604123411	One of the forces of Danish popular rule is the diversity that characterizes the composition of the Folketing. We come with very different backgrounds. Sir. Henrik Dahl has a long writing and academic company behind him; for the past 13 years, I have been such a semi-cartoonist on the Dyrehavsbakken; and that is how we all have our share of reality. And what is really the full picture is the mosaic in which we all come together and where we can each make our contribution. There I think Mr. Henrik Dahl's contribution here finally illustrated the difficult, but thus also important in defining this: Where is the power? Because if there is one thing that is dangerous to every society, then it is if the power is hidden and out of control. It is also dangerous with a society where there is no power at all, because then it becomes anarchy. We have also seen examples of this, and that is not good either. It is precisely for this reason that it is a good day for all parties to agree that now we have to get to grips with whether it is international courts, whether it is the Danish versions of Sir Humphrey, or who really decides in the corridors how things end. Is it the social media that influences parliamentary elections, or is that actually what politicians are saying? Is this fake news or is it real news? We need to get this process under way, which is why it is encouraging that all parties have agreed to it, even though there have been some comments on which I should like to comment. Firstly, there is the organisation of committees, etc. Second, how long is this gonna take? Yes, as I see it, it would be good to have completed the work before the next parliamentary elections. We do not know when, but a working time of 2-3 years must be maximum. And it will also answer part of the question raised by the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten in relation to the economic issue, which is of course important, but which I am sure will be resolved with the very broad support we have heard here. That is why I would urge the government to take the initiative very quickly to make concrete proposals on how this work can be orchestrated. It's like I said to Mr. Knox. Kasper Sand Kjær, more fun to have a dialogue if we know what we're talking about. So let's get something concrete on the table from the government, and then we'll see where the case ends. However, thank you for your support from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604123703	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. In the light of the comments that have been made, I would ask the Committee on Education and Research to make annexes and questions, etc. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure shall also be distributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604123731	The debate is open. Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604123754	Thank you very much for the floor, President. The purpose of the resolution is to strengthen the voluntary and voluntary sector in Denmark and, according to the motion for a resolution, this can be done through the 14 proposals. Before I come to them, I would like to make two points quite clear. Firstly, the government is very much in agreement with the intention behind the motion for a resolution, namely to strengthen the community and the volunteers, and I am also sure that the debate here today will actually have broad political support. We have most recently seen this illustrated by the aid packages in connection with the covid-19 rage, which the Danish Parliament has agreed on in agreement and which help and support the community life, but we have also seen it in the context of the broad political agreements on the various stages of reopening, where sport has just got its full meaning clearly reflected in the political but also in the general public debate. Secondly, the fact that this proposal has been put forward before the corona virus may also make it a bit funny to get into the situation we are in right now. It has, of course, been put forward in a normal situation for the community and the volunteers, but in some ways it has to be said that since the proposal has been put forward, a great deal has happened. I therefore think that the proposal should give some thought to whether we could not take it back in the rapporteur's circle and give it a turn there so that we have a discussion about how we can use it to get the society back on its feet. I would suggest that we therefore stand together as political parties, but also engage in a good dialogue with the community in order to find out, at some point in the autumn, how we can give society a good start after the corona. What have we learned from the crisis? What needs are there? The crisis has shown just how important a role association plays, and one could, for example, do so. I would also like to point out even more at a conference where we could take these proposals and also invite the other ministries, since a large part of the proposals will not in fact be based on the legislation of the Ministry of Culture, but touch on other areas of ministerial activity. So, in this way, I would like to say that the government fully supports the intentions, and we would very much like to work on it in the rapporteur's circle. We would also like to contribute to giving it a greater public debate; we would just like to suggest a hint towards how we can use these suggestions to give society a new, good start. So with these elements I hope that we can take it over to a debate in the rapporteur's circle, but on this basis, as it is now drafted, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124053	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124106	Thank you very much. Denmark is the country of the associations. The voluntary Denmark makes a very large and often unprofitable effort for Danish society. This is where a very large part of our children are formed in the meeting with other adults and other children in self-chosen settings. Amazingly many people give part of their free time to develop each other and therefore also quite often our children, and very many of these would almost be outraged if they were offered remuneration for this effort. We thus owe the voluntary Denmark a great many praises and the greatest thanks for the effort. I would also like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution on the conditions of association in this Chamber. I myself have been a volunteer sports director for nearly 30 years and I am aware of several of the issues this resolution is trying to address. So I still have the benefit of meeting an association person who enthusiastically talks about the GDPR rules or thinks it is nice that they have to go several places with applications to arrange the city party or the annual pedestal market. Social democracy therefore agrees with the intention of the proposal, namely to strengthen the spirit of association and voluntary engagement. At the moment, however, we do not see a normal situation for association, as the Minister also described it. This reflects the aid packages adopted by the Danish Parliament, which include: concerns sports and scouting associations and voluntary organisations with a social purpose. However, I see elements in the proposal that could tolerate more reflection, as well as a number of elements that need to be examined in more detail. For example, we are going to have to do something like this. on the part of the Danish Parliament to interfere in whether private companies should prioritize the activities of associations when hiring a new employee? Or are we going to force voluntary Denmark to appoint the association council of the year? Should it rather be the voluntary Denmark itself that decided this and arranged this? I cannot understand the scope of tax-free associations for income up to 5 million. kr. a year. Here I could use some impact calculations before we have to work on the proposal. Perhaps it should even be part of the financial law negotiations. Then I miss the fact that we are ensuring that sports associations become more involved already in the school day of the children. As I understand it, this is one of the elements of the recent school reform that has not yet had much success. We therefore agree with the aim of the proposal in the Social Democratic Party, but in view of the importance of the Corona crisis in terms of the conditions of association, we think it is important, on the one hand, to take as a starting point the current situation in which the community lives and, on the other, to learn from the Corona crisis. In the Social Democratic Party we support the Minister's initiative to convene the association and political parties to discuss how the association life can get out well on the other side of the Corona crisis, and at the same time discuss the future of Danish association life and voluntary engagement. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but, as I said, we welcome the good intentions of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124439	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124508	Thank you, President. There is no doubt that Foreningsdanmark is a main ingredient in Danish culture. The fact that we meet across income divides, and what we vote, what we believe in, and what church we go to, and are together about outdoor activities or philateli or sports, or whatever it may be, is a main component of Danish culture. That is why there are a great many fine tactics in what the Left is proposing in this motion for a resolution. This is, of course, linked to the initiative that the Left, which the governing party presented a few years ago and got through, in relation to civil society. However, when we in the Danish People's Party look through the proposal and decide whether to vote in favour of it, we are nevertheless encountering some of the same issues and challenges that the Socialist rapporteur has also mentioned, with how much we can allow ourselves to interfere in how strongly the interaction between society and companies should be. After all, the whole voluntary culture of civil society today should be able to live on and not be restricted by the measures we take here at Christiansborg. There is also an issue which is of great concern to us and which belongs on the same ball street, but which is not affected at all in the proposals of the Left, and that is the increasing support for religious associations, in particular, for which the People's Education Act and, in general, the Association Denmark are being used. A few days ago we had the opportunity to discuss the whole question of mosques and their funding etc., and we are therefore very concerned in the Danish People's Party about how Muslim associations in particular use the good, free rules in Grundtvig's homeland, which are intended to spread the light, to spread the darkness. This question should be addressed in such a resolution here, and I do not really see it at all as part of the concern. So we are open to working constructively in committee on what we see as promoting the life of association and also like church life as part of strong civil society, but we are not ready to vote in favour of the proposal at second reading as it stands here. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124800	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604124818	Thank you. There is no doubt that what unites us here in Parliament is the culture of which Denmark has been rounded up. It is, after all, strongly influenced by association, voluntaryness and public education. As a start, I will try to make an anecdote that is true and try to make it short. In 1795, Copenhagen burned. More than a thousand homes burned down, and the bourgeoisie stood in the firehouse and asked: How can we afford to build this up again? And what did they do? They made an association. They chose a president and a purpose and a treasurer etc. In this way, the citizens of Copenhagen created mortgage bonds. Since then they have financed the Danish homes, and there are no other countries in the world that have the same way to finance housing. We have tried many years ago to export it to, among others. the Baltic countries, but no one has grasped it. So this theme is again a very typical part of our culture. There is a lot of inspiration and good ideas in the proposal, but they are slightly different in nature, and I have to admit that I find it difficult to fully understand the first three points, i.e. how to do it. Does a stable subsidy framework mean that all associations should be included in the Finance Act, or what is involved in it? Then there is the issue of lasting partnerships instead of short-term public funding pools. Although there are some good examples, I do not know what is entirely the point of what lies in it; I have little difficulty understanding it, i.e. what lies in it with lasting partnerships. But that sounds positive and good. And then there is competition protection as the third. Association life must be protected from unbearable competition. I would really like to see some examples of this, because I do not quite understand that theme either, but I do not mind protecting them from competition. Then there are some things that typically lie in what I would call the voluntary scheme, namely that voluntary work should count in job applications. I am very much in favour of this, but I just don't think you can force it through. It must be dependent on the individual company's policy, if that is the case. But I'd like to be a part of the recommendation. It is, of course, a theme that we have had before in the Folketing in various contexts. There is also a proposal for the Voluntary Council to assist in good governance. I think that's a really good idea too. But I also think that, for the sake of the idea that we should not say so, it can be up to the associations themselves to ask the Voluntary Council to give them some advice on how to promote good governance. Then there are a number of things that I must say clearly is a matter for the people. I'll take them like that. As far as the Personal Data Regulation is concerned, it is clear in the hands of the Danish Parliament to change the rules if one can get through with it internationally. I'm not gonna be smart about that. But this is where the Danish Parliament should exert its powers. The same applies to administrative trouble, because it is guaranteed that it is also something that is fixed here in the Folketing, and there I think you should go in search of what is administrative trouble - when you have to make Pentecostal markets, etc. Because I have no doubt that it is true that it is a problem. Then there's the tax exemption thing. I think it is also very good, but I do not think we should wait five years to earn the right to a tax exemption. I think that you should have it from the first year you have an association that makes a Pentecostal market or something else where they make some money. I don't think they should wait for five years. Then there are the last three points which I also think are very good. There it is with the protection of association life in the legislation. That is where we have put in place legislation that should be evaluated. I always think that is sensible to do on a regular basis. We would very much like to support that. And for renovation and new construction etc. should be encouraged for the municipality to take the initiative that there is room for sports facilities and association life. That's a really good idea. And the last point concerns municipal planning and urban development, etc. We can, of course, decide from in here that we should make room for leisure activities, and I actually thought that it was already the legislation in force, that is to say that it should be stated in the municipal plans where they were. It is certainly natural to do so, so we would like to support it. It's a slightly differentiated message from here. On the one hand, there are some things that I do not quite understand. It is unfortunate that there are some things that I think should be done voluntaryly. And finally, the Folketing must pull itself together and carry out some of the tasks that they impose on itself in this regard and which I think are really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604125329	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604125348	Thank you. Association life is a strong pillar in our communities, where cultural associations, football clubs, gymnastics associations, scout clubs and much more bind us together cross-country, and it contributes to our national cohesion that we have associations that create opportunities for us to develop artistic, sporting and democratically in association with each other. This helps to make us wiser and give us unforgettable experiences. We must safeguard that, and we must strengthen it. We must listen to the associations and act on the challenges they face. There are a great many associations that today experience rigid frameworks that make it difficult and sometimes prevent communities from flourishing in the country. We must constantly work to change this so that the thousands of fire souls can continue to drive and create for the good of the well 2.8 million Danes and, in fact, some more than that. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the Left for presenting this resolution with a wide range of concrete and constructive input. In the SF, we are in favour of the tactics and intentions contained in the proposal, such as: will give society a broader framework, less bureaucracy and more freedom. In particular, we find it interesting that association life can be linked into school days and help all children into leisure activities. The emphasis on the leisure pass is essential. It is one of SF's heart children that we want to spread across the country. We believe that it is a qualification that one has been a volunteer in society, and we would therefore also like to continue working on a model that can weigh it more strongly in the application processes, both in terms of education and jobs. However, many of the questions also give rise to further studies and processing before we can adopt them. Some of the initiatives may need to be designed in a completely new way. My fear is that the good intentions behind the proposal will be stranded in a good debate, hopefully, but which will not bring about changes and improvements for society. In short, it requires a little more qualification before it is ready to be adopted. And the SF will thereby encourage the Minister to call for discussions among the parties of the Folketing, where we can agree how we can strengthen the association and voluntary sector in Denmark, and where we can work on the good initiatives that are in the proposal. With those comments, the SF looks forward to working on strengthening the association and voluntary sector, but we cannot vote in favour of the proposal that is before us today. Then I should welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they agree with the SF's positions and position on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604125633	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604125639	Thank you. The title of B 139 is, of course, a proposal for a parliamentary decision to strengthen the association and voluntary sector in Denmark, and as a starting point I would like to commend the Left for raising this issue, because the voluntary sector needs political support, including here from Christiansborg, especially in this time, in the coronatide. On Monday, when I drove from Vestjylland to Christiansborg, I had a conversation with a board member of our local association, with whom I myself sat on the board of directors at the time. He told me that the association in this coronatid has so far lost DKK 450,000, and that they are in the package that is planned, perhaps to be able to receive DKK 100,000. There are many, many associations around Denmark that are in the same situation. It is the case that 50 million have been set aside by the government. kr. to associations as a result of the corona crisis and an application for 250 million has been made. kr. Right now. So there is a huge gap which we politicians have a huge task to solve. I know that the DIF has proposed an increase of 150 million. kr., so we get up to 200 million. kr., and then there's a reserve of 30 million. kr. you can take and use. It is just to say that the starting point for B 139 is that we are in a coronatide, where there are associations that are enormously pressured. The associations are for me to see Danish culture when it is allerallerbest. After all, it is a culture that binds Denmark together. There are 2.8 million members, 18,000 local associations and 600,000 volunteers. If we consider it rather modest compared with the 600 000 volunteers, we are talking about a billion dollars being delivered into society for the co-creation of the association work in Denmark. It is invaluable, and I can therefore say in advance that we can support the intentions of the Left with the resolution. It is clear that there may be things that we need to look at, and that is quite clear, but to focus on association and sport work is very, very important, especially at a time when culture in some areas, we can say, has been very vocal, i.e. in this coronatid. Try to notice that these 18,000 local associations have shut down without turning their backs. We have not heard any protests. We haven't heard any reading letters saying this is unfair. You've just done it. That is why I hope that on Monday the Prime Minister of the children will open up again to sport, because it needs it so much. Young people need it, but older people also need it. Everyone needs it. The association work has so many aspects, as the motion for a resolution by the Left also shows. I do not want to go into all the points, but I just want to say that with regard to the issue of lasting partnerships, which is the second point in the motion for a resolution, we have some health efforts for which DIF and DGI have made a common vision, together with the previous government: move towards life. The aim is, of course, to achieve that by 2025 50 per cent. be members of sports associations and 75%. be athletic. My position and the position of the Conservatives is that sports associations must play an even greater role in the health efforts in the municipalities and the major task facing the municipalities in the field of health. We can see all the lifestyle problems that the Danes have, and it is the association life that can help to carry out that task and already today lift it. I would also like to say about paragraph 6, in terms of using having been a voluntary association leader in job applications, that I do not know how much you need to write it down, but I know that for many people who are with an applicant, it is not bad that they have been a volunteer manager, a trainer or whatever. So that's one thing that counts for many. Finally, with regard to the location of the facilities of association, I would like to say that we must, of course, be aware of this, but I would just like to say that, at this time, of course, we are much, much more aware that the corona has shot associations back a long way and that we are facing a huge task.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130216	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130222	Basically, we are in favour of the Left's proposal. Association, like everyone else, needs a helping hand, and in general we feel that if we can do something here from the Assembly Hall that strengthens voluntary life, it is absolutely something that we in New Citizens support around. What we need to be careful about is that we do not state, that we do not bureaucracy and that we do not authority the voluntary work. For us, it is at the heart of it that it remains voluntary and that it is not the municipalities, the state and the regions that go in and take over too much in those things. And that is why I look forward to the committee reading, where we can come a little closer to it because it is, of course, a brief description in the resolution, but that is the way it should be in a motion for a resolution. I am also somewhat concerned about the paragraph on tax exemption for income below 5 million. kr. In general terms, we are in favour of the tax being reduced to zero; it could be noble if it applied to everyone, as the Left will now have it in relation to the voluntary • one can then hope that the Left will spread it here for us to lower taxes in many other areas as well. However, in the structure I see described, there may well be a gap in people taking advantage of the association structure to evade a tax that they would otherwise have to pay if they had a normal company structure. In other words, companies choose to sign up as an association, and if they do so for five years, they can actually, according to the proposal, evade a rather large tax payment in that way. So we would like to delve into that a little more, but I am sure we will get closer in the committee work. So basically, we are positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130404	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130411	Thank you for the floor. This is a very good motion for a resolution which strengthens society and which we support. And we do so because what is at stake is that society is what can be called civil society with a rather finer expression, and civil society is under pressure, for example. the state and to some extent also from the market. And there is nothing like that wrong with the state or the market, but there has to be a certain diversity, or whatever to say. So the fact that civil society can function and thrive with all the benefits of civil society, the commitment it brings with it, the opportunity to organise things itself, we think that is very positive. I agree with that, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that we must, of course, be very careful not to red tape civil society and make very square rules, because it removes the very purpose, if you can put it that way, then you go against the definition of what civil society activities are. But this is a very good proposal that we support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130531	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Well, then, sir. Bertel Haarder asked for the floor as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130554	Thank you, President. I am not the rapporteur, but I have been a co-author and a part of a process that started a year and a half ago with an intensive dialogue with a lot of representatives of society in Denmark. That is why I believe that society will receive the proposal here in a positive way. After all, the Minister has mentioned that it could be followed by a conference with the participation of associations, and I think that is a constructive idea. I have allowed myself at the outset to write a little loudly about Stephen Hawking's universe, where he describes how 80%. of the universe is dark matter, which one cannot see, but which holds everything together. We can calculate that it's there. I think that is a picture of the confidence that holds the Danish society; we cannot see it, we cannot seize it, but it is there and it holds everything together. And this is something that we were brought up with in Denmark in our countless associations. That is where we build up confidence in each other and also the confidence that citizens can find out everything without it all coming as decrees from above. That is why I would argue that the associations are the elements of the people's regime. When Pernille Blume became an Olympic champion of 50 m. So the fastest woman in the water in the world I asked her how she had gotten this far: Had she been on some state or municipal program that raised her, as is normal with sports talents? The answer was: It was Gladsaxe Swimming Club where her parents volunteered and where she had a brother who also swam. It is an example that shows how the width can also nurture an elite even a world-selite. I have heard various questions on the various points, and I am sure that Mr. Stén Knuth will discuss several of them. The fact that we have to get involved in CVs when looking for a position in the private sector, I do not think that Mr. Stén Knuth or I've dreamed of. But where we decide, we can always take the lead. And then I was glad to hear that Mrs Marianne Jelved thought that 5 years might have been too long to wait for the tax freedom which a former tax minister has otherwise blessed, otherwise it would not be here. So I think we are on a sustainable basis when we make that proposal. I have been delighted to hear the various speeches, and I am now looking forward to hearing what Mr Tugendhat has said. Sten Knuth, who is also a child of Association Denmark, will say as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130933	This gives the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604130948	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the comments made by both the Minister and the various rapporteurs, and of course also thank Bertel Haarder, who has helped to bear the proposal. I think it has never been more important than today to address some of the challenges facing the associations out there. As the Minister also says, it was a completely different world from what we see today when we proposed the B proposal here. And therefore, there is a need for really, very many levels to address. As Orla Østerby says, there is not only a financial crisis out there; so there is membership. So you lose a great many Members out there at the moment, and also many volunteers. When I say that it is perhaps a special day today to do so, and that the timing may be very fine, it is because tomorrow we have a constitutional day, when we talk about democracy and talk about the freedom of assembly and the freedom of association. And that we address our attention on the part of the Danish Parliament today when we stand on the edge of the Constitutional Day tomorrow and on 8 June we will hopefully also hear a Prime Minister talking about opening up the whole of Denmark again, at least cultural and association Denmark • I think is important, so that the associations also hear from in here that they mean something. They do, and they know that, and it has also been said out loud today, that you would very much like to do so. In addition to Bertel Haarder, Karsten Lauritzen and Kristian Jensen have helped carry this proposal into the election campaign almost a year and a half ago. I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity here today to talk about what Bertel Haarder also mentions, i.e. that I have also grown out of this world of association. I would also like to thank the federations which have helped to help cast the proposal far along the way. Of course, we've come up with something ourselves. I myself am chairing something called VeteranHaven, which works with veterans. I am Vice-President of the local taekwondo club, where I also face challenges over and over again with the administrative trouble that we have imposed on the associations. When you have to change board, you have to go to the bank, and that's really, really, really difficult. And it is because of the GDPR. Couldn't you challenge it? Shouldn't we challenge it? That is what we in the Left think. And I can also hear that the rapporteurs and the Minister are talking about that. Can we not challenge some of the rules we impose on the associations? For that means that we will have more and more difficulty in getting the volunteers, as Orla Østerby also mentions. We are very, very many volunteers out there, and if we want more in the future, we also need to make it easier. That is why the whole main thrust of the Left's proposal is: less trouble and more freedom. The rapporteurs have struck down various aspects of the 14 proposals contained in the proposal. I'm gonna go address a few of them. Marianne Jelved is talking about this with a secure subsidy framework in relation to the associations, and it is, of course, about the means of distribution and the funds that the associations receive through public education, we should not start to tamper with, because that also brings uncertainty out there in the associations. Then they may have to make more money, or the licenses or whatever you pay to be in the association, go up or go down. In other words, we must provide some security out there in relation to the funds available to both the associations, but also to the federations that are out there. That is what we are helping to control here in relation to the means of distribution and the rules of public education. Bertel Haarder mentioned in relation to this job search and CV that we should not force someone to do it from in here. We are fully aware that every business manager is looking at whether the applicant also has a CV dealing with voluntary work. But again: we must point out from in here that it is important, that is to say give the message to the business leaders out there that it is important to look at it too, and that we are aware of that. Orla Østerby also mentions the fact that we actually have almost 3 million active and 600,000 700,000 volunteers who have not complained. They have shown so much socialism, and that is why we must also recognise and praise in here that they have helped to do so. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that we should be careful not to become authority and that it is not from in here that we have to decide. I fully agree, and that is also what the proposal here contains: less bureaucracy and less governance from within. But there is just the paradox that when we say unification, we are already helping to red tape it. Well, being an association means having some statutes and there's got to be some board members. So it's already that you call it an association. But we have to do everything we can from in here to minimize it. Those were some of the things I just wanted to crack down on. The Minister has a proposal to send it to the rapporteur for a debate in the autumn. I hope, of course, that immediately after we return from the summer holidays, we will begin to tackle this, because it is really, really important. That is what Bertel Haarder also says that keeps our society together, and that is why we also need to look very quickly not only at the restart but also at the financial aid packages that we have given to our associations. There was a proposal in committee the other day, when DIF, DUF and DGI were at the meeting and suggested something more, and I think we should address that and discuss it further. And I know we're going to do that for the next few days, at least before we go on summer vacation. So thank you very much for the very positive words about our proposal. I do not know whether it is I who should propose that it be dealt with by committee and then subsequently discussed by the rapporteur, but that will certainly be my approach to it. Thank you so much for your kicking in. It's been super, super good, and we're working on it, so we're not only helping Foreningsdanmark, but we're also re-establishing all the work they're doing so well out there. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604131731	Thank you. And I will suggest this by passing it on to committee. But thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604131750	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604131818	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are debating motion for a resolution B 96 which, in order to outline its content, requires the government to ensure that the necessary decision-making basis has been provided and that proposals for civil engineering laws are put forward for adoption before the end of the 2020-21 parliamentary year. In addition, the construction projects will have to be budgeted in the budget of the budget for 2021 onwards. I can and should note, for the sake of good order, that the construction projects were all part of the previous government investment plan agreed in March 2019, i.e. an investment plan that no longer supports after the climate elections in June last year. Since the motion for a resolution was tabled in February, a number of developments have taken place in Danish society, not least because the covid-19 has put Danish society down, and this has hit our economy hard. We in the government, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, have acted resolutely on this and praise all the parties of the Danish Parliament in this context. And, as the Minister for Finance has said, in the government we see the way out of the crisis in two stages. Right now we are holding hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs, and as we then open society again, there will also be a need for a recovery of economic activity, a recovery that creates both activity and jobs, while at the same time making Denmark greener and addressing climate challenges. What the progress of such economic recovery must be, of course, seen in an overall perspective, and the government will report this further when we are ready for it. This also means that an overview of the economy can only be created for investment once we have finished with the various corona aid packages, which are still working at the moment. And I hope that we in the Danish Parliament can agree that, whenever possible, economic activity needs to be restored and, of course, infrastructure investment plays a key role in that recovery. I also assume that the reason why the proposers have maintained the February proposal is precisely because of this. However, it is also clear that there needs to be a clear plan on how to ensure that our infrastructure planning creates the basis for a coherent transport system, where modes of transport and mobility solutions play together, and where we have the best basis for making wise and enlightened decisions that can help support the green transition. That is why I think it is untenable to take concrete road projects out of the big context and say that these must be given priority just because they were part of the previous government's investment plan. That being said, there are, and I would say this, either construction projects which in most cases have a sound socio-economic system, or targeted sections where there is congestion or at least congestion, when there is not very little traffic as a result of the covid-19 • of course, not least during peak hours. I also note that the Mariager bypass project, which was part of the plan of the VLAK government, is not part of the resolution. We are in the government on a strong green mandate. Together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, we have set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030, measured in relation to the 1990 emission level. Of course, our ambitious objective also interferes with how we conduct transport policy. The transport sector is currently responsible for approx. 28% It is vital that the transport sector should also contribute if we are to achieve the 70% reduction target, and we must do so. Therefore, we must also see our infrastructure investments in the context of climate action, and this requires us to be longer in the work on the climate action plans before we can call for broad negotiations on a new infrastructure plan. If we are to achieve the goals of climate action, close cooperation with business is also important, and therefore it is also very positive that the climate partnerships have now submitted their recommendations to the government. These are now being analysed and will be part of the work on our climate action plans. The reporting of climate partnerships in the field of aviation and land transport respectively was reported to the Climate, Environment and Supply Committee and to the Transport Committee earlier this week. We do not need to make decisions blindly, and that is why we need to know more about how future infrastructure investments become more green. We need to ensure that we use investment funds efficiently, both in terms of mobility and in terms of reducing traffic climate footprints. Where do we get the most out of focusing on investment in public transport, and where does it make more sense to invest in road construction for the green cars of the future? We do not have all the answers to that yet, but we will get it before the negotiations on long-term investment start. A short time ago we had a question debate here in the Danish Parliament, where a majority indicated that precisely because a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. By 2030, climate and environmental considerations must also be very much part of a future infrastructure plan, and the majority in the Folketing, of course, intends to follow. Therefore, the forthcoming negotiations on a long-term infrastructure plan towards 2030 must also be coordinated with the climate action plans, and this has of course not changed since we were in the Chamber a few weeks ago and last debated it. When we are longer in the work on the climate action plans, I look forward to discussing long-term investments with the parties of the Folketing. I have also noted with great satisfaction that several parties have already expressed the wish that we should find each other in a broad agreement. I think that is very constructive. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132452	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132455	The Corona epidemic has not changed anything about the fact that there is an undercapacity of road in Denmark. So in relation to the people who have to transport, we have too little road in Denmark, especially some central motorway sections for which the state is responsible. This was the case before the corona epidemic. Then we had a few weeks and months here during the corona epidemic where people didn't drive to work. Then there was plenty of room on the roads. They're back on the road again. This proposal translates the projects from the Blue Plan of March 2019 that were to be implemented in 2021, i.e. start in 2021. After all, this is now a matter of urgency, because in August the government will present a Finance Act for 2021, which is why it is important that the government now realises whether it wants to implement any projects by 2021. These are the projects that we blue parties proposed should be implemented in 2021. What's the government's bid? Does the government want to implement any road projects in 2021? Or does the government think that because there is a corona epidemic in Denmark, should not the road be built in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132606	It is absolutely true that there are places in Denmark where there may be a good need to make road investment. It was known before the corona situation, completely as before the corona situation was well known, that there are also places in Denmark where there is a need to build bike paths, just as before the corona situation was well known that there were places in Denmark where there was a need to strengthen public transport. The service inspection has just shown that the railway in particular is challenged and to strike a balance in it in the future investment plan, yes, of course it is one of the tasks that lies on my table, and we will do so too. As I have just explained, the government naturally follows the majority in the Folketing, which has recently stated in a question debate that climate and environmental considerations are also linked to infrastructure investments. And that's why it's also what I've explained in my answer here... the approach we have. And then it is clear that the Liberal Alliance can always come forward for infrastructure negotiations and for financial negotiations with their wishes there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132714	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132715	This is now the second time the Minister of Transport has made a Finance Act. The first Finance Act 2020 was tabled and agreed in 2019. There were zero crowns set aside for better roads. I hear the Minister for Transport saying that even in the 2021 Finance Act, zero kroner will be set aside. Is it correct to understand that the Minister of Transport has not yet succeeded and will not succeed in the next Finance Act to allocate a single penny for better roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132755	The government has not put forward a draft Finance Act now, which is why I think that the rapporteur for the proposers has also been a very active financial politician over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132817	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132821	Thank you. After all, there are a number of parties and organisations who are busy spreading the myth that rail-borne traffic is good and green, whereas road traffic is black and evil. I am glad that the Minister is among those who say that the crucial thing is what is in mind about what is driving: if it is green, the transport is green. That is where we agree. I am therefore a little surprised that the Minister is using the climate argument to ensure that we cannot embark on some transport investments. We know where there is a need to strengthen the railways, and we know where there is a strong need to build roads; the Social Democrats themselves have many suggestions for this. So why is it that the Minister thinks we have to wait for the climate negotiations? We hope that we will agree that we need to make the vehicles green and that we need to make the aircraft green and the ships, etc.: There's gotta be something green in the tank. I do not really understand the argument that we have to wait for the climate negotiations, because it is like one part where we make an agreement together to get something green in the tank, and investment in infrastructure is so what it has to run on, and it is green no matter what. Does the Minister agree with that and why will the government use it as an argument for putting off some traffic investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132937	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604132938	In fact, on this very point, I believe that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and I are very much in agreement about the importance of ensuring that vehicles in the future turn green. It is partly a question of phasing out diesel and petrol cars, partly of ensuring alternative fuels. There is no doubt about the ■ and ambitious potentials of power-to-x, e.g. electrofuels and similar, are extremely promising, but we also have to say that we cannot, in fact, set a precise route to it today. This is one of the things we hope to be able to do in the climate action plans for transport. That is certainly the ambition of the government, and I am convinced that the Left will also play there. After all, there is a connection, also in relation to a green mobility plan, where we need to see infrastructure investment in a broader context, so that we also ensure intermodality, for example, in which we also strengthen the link between modes of transport. I don't think we disagree on that either in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133047	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133048	I very much agree with that: modality, and that we need to think about the coherence of traffic, is very important. But the second important parameter here is how much money we have at our disposal, and I understand that the government is just breathing and seeing what the situation is after corona etc. But does the Minister not agree that corona or not is the state's investment framework thus intact? That is why it is a question of how much we want to set aside for our transport infrastructure, and I hope that the Minister is at least as ambitious as the previous government, which has set aside 112 billion. kr. to this area. So, can the Minister lift the veil a little bit from that frame? We need a good framework, preferably at least 112 billion. kr., when we are about to negotiate traffic infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133132	What the financial framework looks like can probably only be finalised on the other side of the financial aid packages when we have a comprehensive overview of the Danish economy forward-looking. But it is certainly not the case that you per. definition can expect that just because we have been through a corona crisis, there will be less need for infrastructure investment. In other words, infrastructure is one of the areas where there is an inherent potential to create future growth. There is no doubt about it, and we also stand by that, just as there is an inherent potential in green solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133209	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133212	Thank you, President. In relation to these infrastructure investments, the best ability and art to unfold, whether we have a red or a blue government in the Kingdom of Denmark, must, after all, be to try to read what the needs of the future will be in relation to ensuring that the citizens of Denmark and the companies in Denmark are as properly transported as possible to and from work etc. We need to read the needs. That's why you might be wondering. After all, the Minister of Transport belongs to a party which, just a year ago, exceled itself with a large and comprehensive infrastructure plan which would clarify what the Socialists would do if they were given power as they would like it to be. One might well wonder why what one has chosen to do now is actually put it all in hibernation. It has been quietly put into hibernation, and we can now see one year after another with the Finance Act, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also refers to where the desire and motivation to invest in the blue part of the infrastructure, in other words the things that were at least contained in our agreement, seem to have been completely ignored.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133330	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133331	I do not see investing in, for example, an extension of the E45 in critical places as being neither red nor blue. I see it as being relatively common sense because there is a good socio-economic aspect to it. That is why I think that the most important thing is that we achieve what was at the heart of the socialist pre-election initiative, namely that we return to a normal situation in which infrastructure agreements are made as broadly politically as possible and possible with many parties and many mandates, so that the agreements that are concluded also last. It is still my point of reference, and it will continue to be both in the context of future infrastructure negotiations, but in the area of infrastructure as a whole, as long as I am responsible for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133425	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133426	Now I can try again: it is fine that the Minister outlines this here and plays the record again about what the government has to do with it. But we're wondering. After all, things have to be understood in the right order. That is just what we are wondering, that is, that you can see that the needs are there. You do not need the huge crystal ball to see where the needs are invading our infrastructure, and then you choose that we obviously have to have until several years when we put the area into hibernation. We simply do not understand that in the Danish People's Party, and I do not think the Minister has replied to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133503-2	It can then be said that if we had really cared about a broad understanding and a long-term agreement that was also to be held after elections, a broad agreement would have been drawn up in the time of the previous government and invited both the Social Democrats and other parties to the negotiating table and made something that could hold. After all, it did not succeed, and that also means that it is a task that affects my area and this government. I also hope, of course, that with the statements that have been made widely, we can continue to achieve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133537	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133541	Thank you very much. I am so happy when I hear the Minister's reply to Hans Kristian Skibby about the infrastructure plans and the proposals that have been made today, because what the Minister has said is that infrastructure is a matter of good conduct. There are a lot of things we need to agree on, and that makes me really, really happy and very confident for the future. Unfortunately, it has cost far more than a thousand jobs in industry that it has been dormant because there is nothing in the pipeline, and that is why it has not been possible to maintain the staffing in the companies. Can the Minister perhaps lift the veil as to whether we can get started on this, now I say at the back of the corona when we get an inventory? Can the Minister lift the veil and say whether we can, for example, lift the veil? Going on in September, so we kind of have something to do with it? That would also be proper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133635	I wish I could look into a crystal ball where I could see exactly when Danish society and the world are beyond the corona situation. By the way, it is very typical that I actually have to look through no less than two glass panes to look over to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen here in the Assembly Hall. After all, this also underlines the fact that we have a corona influence. I think it would be presumptuous to give a guarantee that the Corona situation will be fully completed in September. But it is also clear, as I indicated in my speech, that coming out on the other side of the corona and having an overall view of the economy, etc. and then also look at what can help stimulate the Danish economy, of course also what lies in the government pipeline. But it would probably be just presumptuous enough for me to predict the end of the corona yet, wherever I would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133735	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133736	I also regret that the Minister does not have a crystal ball. That's what we in Jutland call slaves. However, I think that we in the committee have such fine cooperation that, despite the fact that we do not know the consequences of the corona, at least now or right on the other side of the summer holiday, we can sit together and agree on what we can agree to work with. For that process, we could, of course, start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133806-2	There is no doubt that I have also taken advantage of the past time to get an overview of what the various parties have had of the wishes, because I can see that there are also wishes that are moving in a different direction from those of some of the parties that have previously sat in the government than what was necessarily in the roster. Of course, I take note of that too, and I am quite sure that we can find sensible solutions to that. And now my speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133844	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604133858	Thank you for the floor, President. The discussion of this motion for a resolution does not bring a new discussion on Danish infrastructure to the market. After all, the proposals put forward by the Liberal Alliance have been taken directly from the previous government's Blue Investment Plan from 2019, but it should not be a burden on anyone, as it is the former Transport Minister who is proposing the proposal. Just as we have discussed this in Parliament before, things have to happen in the right order, and the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance was tabled before the corona's entry into Danish society, and Denmark and the Danish economy are thus in a new situation compared to just a few months ago. I know that, and the authors of the Liberal Alliance know that too. This does not mean that we have to keep up with investment, on the contrary, but, contrary to the Liberal Alliance, we in the Social Democrat Party would like to have an overview of the consequences of the Corona before we blindly start placing money on large infrastructure investments. The Social Democratic Party, together with the other parties in the Folketing, has held hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs, and thanks to the resolute action and our due diligence, which we have jointly carried out, we now have the task of ensuring a safe and secure recovery of the Danish economy. When we have an overview of the economic consequences of the corona crisis, we can at the same time begin to look at the long-term recovery of the Danish economy, and infrastructure and investment of course play an important role here. That is why I am also pleased that the Liberal Alliance, with this proposal, is putting forward their wishes for a future green infrastructure plan perhaps. As I also mentioned in a similar debate on questions, where the Liberal Alliance was also involved, we naturally welcome all the proposals, and thereby we have a good starting point for the future negotiations on what the government calls a green infrastructure plan. We have set an ambitious climate target across the Folketing on 70-percent greenhouse gas reduction by 2030, and we in the Social Democratic Party intend to achieve that objective, which is why future investment in infrastructure must also be green, so that we can reduce the impact of the transport sector on the climate. As we have also mentioned on previous occasions, the infrastructure investments of the future and the climate action are inextricably linked. It is a prerequisite for future infrastructure investment that our initiatives are effective and have a positive impact on the climate. We have to, among other things. ensure by drawing on some of the good recommendations that climate partnerships, and thus also parts of business, have just made, and, in addition, it is of course essential that future investments in infrastructure play a part in the climate action plans. Based on the climate action and recent recommendations from the climate partnerships, future infrastructure investments will be made on the basis of both climate considerations and the consideration of the Danish economy in the light of corona. Therefore, it does not make sense, as the Liberal Alliance proposes, to make specific investments in infrastructure and give them priority over other projects elsewhere in the country. On the contrary, the infrastructure investments of the future require an overall view, in which we also consider public transport, cycling and the green transition. On this basis, I can say that the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution, but we always welcome the debate on investment in infrastructure. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur, Mr SF. Karsten Hønge, and from the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and say that unfortunately they could not be here because of any committee work, but that they, like the Social Democrats, cannot support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134300	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134303	Yes, a parliamentary election can change a lot, because in the election campaign the Social Democratic Party could support all these proposals and more. These are the projects to be launched in 2021 according to the Blue Plan, which we published in March 2019. And when it was published, the President of the Social Democratic Party, the current Prime Minister, said that social democracy would be about the same. In the election campaign, Social Democratic MPs and candidates throughout the country said that we could safely vote for the Social Democracy, because they wanted the same thing. Now we are about to enter 2021, and we are about to have a budget law for 2021, so if you want the same thing, you have to get these projects going now, because it is next year that they have to get started according to the plan, and the Social Democrats have said that you want the same thing. So what really has changed, apart from the fact that we have had an election and that the Social Democrats do not really care what has been promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134401	What's changed? Well, that's a good question, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. What has changed is that the people have spoken in a parliamentary election. They have put together the Folketing in a different way, and in the way it is put together, the Social Democratic Party and the Government want us to try to involve more representatives in decisions on the infrastructure, i.e. a broader settlement than the predecessor of the present Minister for Transport was able to do. And when we look at it, as I said in my speech, it would be good to make up for the input that has been made in the climate area, and then, if a whole, make a broad settlement here in the Parliamentary Assembly. It is like that which is the objective. So it may well be that it is a pity for the former Minister of Transport that some people are going to do things widely and that you cannot just make it blue, but there we are of a different observance in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134503	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134505	It is first and foremost a pity for the Danes who are queued. And even if Mr. Thomas Jensen likes such rhetorical game fighting, is what I worry about, that there are a lot of Danes in line. They have been promised by the Social Democratic Party that the Social Democratic Party would also start building roads in 2021. They were promised in the election campaign that the Social Democracy would. And I have every respect that the Social Democracy will also involve the Enhedslisten and the Alternative in negotiations on several motorways, although they do not want to do so, but then call for the negotiations so that we can get them started in 2021. The Social Democratic Party doesn't even want to do that. Social democracy does not want to call for negotiations, so the very idea of starting in 2021, as the Social Democrats said they would like to, has left the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134546	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134547	I think it should be borne in mind that what the Social Democratic Party put forward was, in other words, a catalogue in which we proved ourselves playable, in relation to the fact that a broad agreement could be reached in the area of infrastructure. There was no desire for this from the blue side, and that is why the Social Democrats were not included in such an agreement. What is important to us is that, in the forthcoming negotiations with the new Parliament, we ensure a broad settlement, so that it is also a settlement that can hold on the other side of a parliamentary election. For if the former Minister for Transport had been able to do so or had had the will to do so, we would have actually had an infrastructure agreement today that could be implemented. But that is what happens when we pursue block politics and do not engage in broad cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134629	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134632	Thank you for that, President. I think the Social Democrat rapporteur is aware that when a broad agreement was not reached in March last year, unfortunately, it was partly because the Social Democrats stuck stubbornly in the second phase of the Togfonden DK, including the fact that a lot of money is not available, on something we do not need, namely a new railway through East Jutland and a railway bridge over Vejle Fjord. However, what I think is gathering us together is the desire for a holistic investment plan towards 2030, and I am pleased about that, and hopefully we will be able to meet about that. I see the resolution here as a way of pointing out that if we had followed the Blue Plan, we would already be in the process of some projects by 2021. That is what is needed, and this debate will mark it. Now we've lost some time. We know that we have already lost a year and a half in relation to the Blue Agreement and, at worst, we may lose a 2-3 year, depending on when the government makes a mandate to conduct traffic negotiations. That is why I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: does the Social Democratic Party want us to get started with some transport investments already in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134741	After all, the Social Democrats want us to get on with infrastructure investments and negotiations on them when we are ready to do so. And the time when we're ready for it is when we have some input, among other things. from what is happening in the climate sector, so that we know what sort of things the infrastructure has to play with. For the infrastructure must 2 So it must come when we are ready for it and when we have an overview of the economy. In addition, I would like to say that I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur of the Left and the Left Party are showing themselves to be fully playable in terms of reaching a broad agreement and that it has been recognised that there has been a parliamentary election and that we must now look ahead and find solutions together. I'm really, really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134822	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134823	Thank you. Well, we are very much in agreement that, of course, this must play along with the green transition and what is being negotiated in this regard. But the negotiations are taking place, among other things. on the fact that we're getting green vehicles. Therefore, I do not really see the contradiction between the fact that we are making an infrastructure plan about what needs to be run on purely physical routes, i.e. bicycle paths, roads, railway tracks, etc., and that what we agree on is that what is running on it must be green. So I would like to ask: will the Social Democrats not agree that the two things can actually be negotiated in parallel and yet achieve the common goal of green transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134858	The questioner, like me, often attends transport committee meetings where we discuss technology and the advantages and disadvantages of various technologies, and sometimes we also have to look into a future where we do not yet know exactly what technology can do. That is why I think it is quite important that we get those things in where we have a little more certainty about what sort of solutions work. But in addition, I also hope that we can have a common learning in relation to this: we have to wait a little longer here, i.e. we have to do rolling traffic planning in the future. We should not just make ten-year plans, look 10 years ahead, but we should do rolling planning every three or four years so that we will not experience anywhere where we have to stop a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134936	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then the next rapporteur from the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604134953	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Liberal Alliance for highlighting with this resolution the need for us to get on with transport investment. After all, it is not a joke that more than a year ago we made a traffic agreement with some very important transport investments, because that was because it was imperative. This is not something we have come up with in here, it is something we have been told from companies around the country, from industry, from the municipalities, from the tens of thousands of people commuting to and from work every day. So there is a need for these investments, which must make traffic progress, so that we do not waste our time and money in traffic, but also that we get a more coherent Denmark. So there is no doubt about the need for these investments, and I think this resolution and the debate we have are a good opportunity to refocus on this. The projects mentioned, eight of them here, were all some that had to start in 2021 if the Blue Plan had been implemented, but it was not. After all, it is all good projects that the Left can be behind, and that is no surprise to anyone when we were in the agreement, so we are of course positive about the proposal. After all, we are going to have a debate again next week, in which we are trying to push for the government to get more out of the starting points of these negotiations, but what is central is the time factor, that is, that we get started with some of these things, because we have congestion out there, we need it, whether it is roads or bicycle paths or public transport that need to be improved. The second factor is money, and that is why it is a big and important question how much money will actually be available when we are about to negotiate. I hope, of course, that the government is ambitious and is able to devote at least the 112 billion. kr., there is the framework for the agreement of last year. Then there is the green transition, and there too I hope we can have a broad political consensus to stop that Punic war about what is green and what is black. If the premise is that the vehicles of the future are green, and that is our prerequisite in the Left for road projects, then roads are per. definition green. I think it's bad that we spend time hitting each other in the head with it. The cars, buses and trucks of the future must be green in the future, and therefore roads are green. I would also like to point out that 90%. We have spent a great deal of money on the railways for many years, and we have actually spent 132 billion. kr. for the last 10 years on construction and operation, well enough, but we have spent a lot of money on the railroad. It is therefore a little sad that the state of the railway is not better, but it will be better in the years to come thanks to this money. But there is an imbalance that we need to correct, and that is why we need to focus on many of these important road projects and then rejoice that roads are green. I think it is important that we have this as a common starting point. Then there is also the fact that we have to say that the Road Directorate has shot empty, as we said in the army when I was there, because there are virtually no more projects to start with, and that is a pity when there is so much need for road projects. The road construction industry is also about to shoot empty, indeed, there are reports that people have started to be laid off, and that is not very clever when we need better roads so much. On the other hand, Banedanmark has a lot of iron in the fire, literally, rail tracks, and perhaps too many, for at least there is something that suggests that it is difficult to keep the balls in the air and things on track, and that is also something we are about to work with. But summa summarum I think it is a good thing that we are now focusing on the need to get these projects under way, and the Left therefore supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135404	First of all, I would like to thank the Left for supporting the motion for a resolution. It has not even been a year since the parliamentary elections, but in a political sense it seems as if a decade has passed since the things that were said before the parliamentary elections have now passed away with the government. Well, that's a really, really wondering. If it were the case that the Social Democratic Party was in favour of these projects, then the Social Democracy and the Blue Parties would be a solid majority together, and then perhaps something could be agreed with perhaps the SF and the Radical Left on top, so that it all became a broad settlement. There is no reason to say that the majority is gone. What do you think, sir? Kristian Pihl Lorentzen on the fact that the government in its first Finance Act chose to cut 2 billion. kr. on the investment framework in Denmark? Could that perhaps more than the corona crisis be the reason why no penny was spent on road investment by 2020 and that we must fear that a penny will not be spent on road investment by 2021 either?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135507	I think it is very unfortunate that the government as one of the first chose to cut the investment framework, because money is badly needed, especially at the beginning of the period, so we get started on something, because there is some more money available after 2025. So it was a pity, but we may have to go back and look at the so-called paper of understanding, where, of course, the government, after an election, needs to find an understanding with its parliamentary basis. There is nothing new in that paper, but, to my surprise, there is not a word about roads, because there was a lot of talk about roads on the part of the Social Democrats in the election campaign. So maybe that's where we really need to find an explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135544	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604135557	One might almost be tempted to say that we are now standing here again. After all, we have already had questions debates, and we have had consultations and everything else with the government's ministers in relation to this request, which a large number of the parties of the Danish Parliament bring to rest and remember. One thing is that you came up with good intentions before the elections, that you came up with the right initiatives, but when you have to deliver, we have to bring out requests again and again from this Parliament's platform. It may be said that this is the right place to do it, because no one is listening to what is being said anyway, but the request is coming again today, Mr President. Minister of Transport. After all, we are some parties who are puzzled by the fact that the government has not insisted on proving that it actually has an understanding and due diligence in ensuring the sustainable development of our transport infrastructure here in Denmark. It was, of course, almost the whole of the House of different political parties who voted for a large number of capital investments and that we should be offensive in our approach to investing in Danish road capital. In fact, it was something that the Socialists themselves did. I think it was in May that the Socialists made this fantastic proposal for where the money would be invested in a large and comprehensive investment package, and then there was the much-mentioned Blue Infrastructure Agreement from March, which, as it were, on many routes, simply wanted the very same thing. That is why, of course, it is strange that when you have the opportunity to exercise this due diligence, you choose to dig into a large trench, and then it is all going to hibernate, as I also said to the Minister for Transport in connection with the preliminary remarks on the examination of this resolution. Because that's what really happened. After all, the government has fallen asleep, and this is not the hallmark of a government, which is even a one-party government, which has the opportunity in this case to appeal to a broad majority, so to speak, to all the blue political parties, here in the Folketing, in order to secure funding, so that we also have the opportunity to invest in our road network. For mysterious reasons, we have chosen not to do so. The reason for this is that we have to wait for Corona and the economic part of it, and I agree with that. Of course we need to know what we have of economic space, but I also think it is important to point out that the government decided this strategy long before the word corona was almost invented in Denmark, apart from the fact that there was a hotel in Herning called it. I mean, it's a hibernation strategy that the government has had from day one when the elections had been won. Perhaps I just think that the government should recognise that this is not only due to a pleasant excuse in relation to some economy, but also due to the fact that the government has actually opted for a hibernation strategy, which means just when we look at it now and as we can see it is out there that the investments are stalling. The municipalities demand where it all goes, and in the regions they do not understand much of it either, and then we have a lot of construction contractors who are now also starting to send their employees home. Is that what we need in Denmark at the moment? Is it that we send people home? No, the Danish People's Party certainly does not think so. We need to call more people to work, and that is what we do, among other things. by speeding up and stimulating public and state capital investment. You don't do that by hibernating. You could also call it a winter hibernation, but now summer has come, sir. I know that there is one person a little further down the road that the Minister of Transport must persuade to have a slightly more open door than to invite to these negotiations. But on the part of the Danish People's Party, we would certainly like to appeal for it to be produced by these debates that we have in the Danish Parliament. We also know that we will probably be meeting here again next week for something similar, and it may not be less over time, but we also recognise, of course, that there will be a majority in favour of achieving political results and reaching political agreements. There has not yet been a basis for this, but we need to put on the positive glasses, and I certainly hope that at some point we will mature the process so that the Minister of Transport will convene the negotiations. But, of course, we can support the points contained in the resolution and, if we do not get it adopted, we naturally hope for a very good written report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140117	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140140	Thank you. When our Highway rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested, not here, I would like to make his views as much as possible. It is no surprise that the Enhedslisten cannot endorse the B proposal. It is an extract of the infrastructure agreement, which the previous government concluded with the Danish People's Party shortly before the elections last year, and it is also directly referred to in the observations of the proposal. As a preliminary point, the proposal has the old-fashioned fact that there is, and I quote, increasing capacity pressure on Danish roads up until 2030 and that this can only be resolved through the extension of the road network, it is understood, not least the motorway network. The proposal consists of no less than six projects for the development of existing motorways and increased capacity on two roads. And no, roads are not of themselves green. After all, it is an old travert that congestion and the associated waste time for drivers, and it is significant, are best solved by making room for even more cars. It is a policy that has now been pursued for four or five decades, yet we have never had so much road and so many motorways, and we have never had as many cars and as much congestion as we have now. One only has to look out the window, not least in and around the metropolitan area it is quite mad. Traffic research has repeatedly established that it is impossible to combat congestion by extending the road network and making room for even more cars. We need to reduce the need for transport and reduce commuting and make people use the much less bulky public transport through its expansion and cost-cutting, and we need to make it more expensive to use the car, as many road researchers point out, especially at times and places where congestion is greatest. Here we are looking forward to a change in the car tax system in the form of road pricing, which is an excellent means of combating congestion. However, for four or five decades the Danish transport policy has gone exactly the opposite way with more roads, cheaper cars and fossil fuels and a neglected railway that is not maintained and not invested enough, quite the contrary. The result is now apparent. The railroad is close to collapse, and the railroad in Denmark today appears to be worn out, out-of-date and challenged, as stated in the recently published service report on the railway. Furthermore, we need to promote cycling through an extensive investment in bicycle paths, super bike paths, bicycle parking places at stations and bus terminals, the inclusion of bicycles in public transport, etc. etc. to ensure coherence and ease of switching between green modes of transport. Remember, about half of all car trips are 10 km or less. We cannot get a feeling of this in this debate. About a third is 5 km or less. So there is a great potential to transfer a not insignificant part of the transport from car to bike, especially with the emergence of electric bikes, this potential is greatly increased. The Liberal Alliance proposal does not solve the problems it claims to solve, on the contrary. There is a need for a radical change in the pattern of transport in this country and with emphasis on public transport and cycling for reasons of hardship, for reasons of climate, for reasons of nature and for reasons of people's health. So the Enhedslisten cannot agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140507	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140510	It is true that there is in fact a broad majority in the Folketing in order to carry out a number of road projects, at least if what the Social Democrats said in the election campaign that the Social Democracy wanted to stand up for believers. For the blue parties will still expand a number of roads, and the Social Democrats will also expand a number of roads, they said in the election campaign, but they may then no longer want to do so. But the Minister for Transport says it is very important to him that he should have a broad agreement. It is understood that this is, among other things, the case. is Enhedslisten, to be invited to negotiations, and that is where I understand from the Enhedslisten that these motorways, which we are proposing to launch the extension of by 2021, are not for them. Can Enhedslisten tell us what it is then for some other highways that Enhedslisten wants to launch in 2021 and that Enhedslisten will play into the negotiations with the Minister of Transport when the Minister of Transport convenes Enhedslisten for negotiations on among others. extension of the Danish road network?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140605	I am not the rapporteur on this matter, but I shall try to reply in Mr Beyer de Ryke's report. Henning Hyllested's spirit, and there I would say: No, we do not see any motorways that are suitable for promoting a green transport policy in Denmark. And although we expect to be convened for the negotiations, we do not see that this is where our efforts should lie. It must be related to strengthening public transport, also because of its employment and also because of its green development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140632	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140633	Oh, my God. Does this mean that the Minister of Transport may as well not invite Enhedslisten to negotiations, because Enhedslisten says from the beginning that Enhedslisten does not want to spend 1 DKK. on the Danish road network, including on the motorways? This is just surprising, because the Minister of Transport says that instead of making an agreement with the blue parties who want to do this, it is very important for him to talk to, among others. Enhedslisten on it. But then Enhedslisten says from the beginning: Under no circumstances will Enhedslisten be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140659	I think it is very wise of the Minister to call the Enhedslisten for those discussions, because we think we can bring something really wise and good to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140709	Thank you, and then there is a brief remark from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140713	Thank you so much. I hear that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is spreading about this with the idea that all people should take both the train and the bike. So I would just like to ask myself: where does Mrs Jette Gottlieb live?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140730	She lives in central Copenhagen, but that has nothing to do with it. We are fully aware that the car may be necessary in some parts of the country. We are not unaware of this, but it does not mean that it is always necessary and must always be present in all contexts as a good mode of transport. One might be tempted to say that the car is actually a bit addictive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140749	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140751	Okay, so Mrs. Jette Gottlieb lives in central Copenhagen, where Mrs. Jette Gottlieb has extensive access to public transport, but there are a lot of Danes around the country who do not have and who are quite dependent on having a car and could drive to work, drive and pick up the children, drive them for leisure activities, etc. So Mrs Jette Gottlieb simply believes that these people just have to discard their car and then they have to cycle around to the various things, and then you just have to do it and adjust to it, even if it may take ten times the time it normally takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140829	I think I said the opposite of what the questioner heard. I say that there are places where a car can be a useful solution to a transport problem, but it is not all the places where it exists, it is a useful solution to a transport problem. That is why our task is also to ensure that there are other means of transport. We must remember that it is people under the age of 18 who cannot use cars. They must also have a means of transport if they live in the circumstances mentioned by the questioner. This also applies to those who are older and may not feel quite safe to travel the Danish roads in a car. They must also have an opportunity to transport, which is why it is in any case important to strengthen public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140907	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140909	I would really like to ask the rapporteur something. I am well aware that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is speaking on behalf of Mr Gottlieb. Henning Hylllested, but this is something elementary, I almost said, so I think we can figure it out. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether she is aware that one million Danes live in rural areas or in smaller provincial towns and do not have daily buses that drive right past their door every day, whereas in Copenhagen, for example, you are living in Copenhagen. can take bus 5A, which runs almost every 10 minutes. Is this something you know well in the Enhedslisten? Otherwise, we who live in the countryside would like to provide that service information.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604140957	I can tell you that both the rapporteur and the reserve rapporteur are fully aware of and aware of this. I can say for myself if it is interesting that I usually use the bike, and it is easy to do when you live as close to your workplace as I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141011	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141013	Then it is perhaps desirable that Mrs Jette Gottlieb should try to live in Bøvlingbjerg or Thyborøn or in Varde or in Jelling. I come from the neighbouring town to Jelling, and when you come to Jelling Friday afternoon, there are all the digital signs for the buses: No current departures. It says so until Monday morning. This is the way it works in a city like Jelling, which has thousands of inhabitants. Not everyone lives so close that they can just take the bike and drive to and from their work. After all, many have children who have to be handed over to an institution, and some also have sharing car schemes etc. I just hope that Enhedslisten will take this into account in their future deliberations on private carism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141058	I am of the opinion that the questioner provides one good argument after another as to why public transport should be strengthened, improved and, moreover, cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141108	Thank you. Then there is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141112	Thank you. Mrs Jette Gottlieb gave the government good advice that Enhedslisten should be invited to the upcoming traffic negotiations because they had many good input. I remember that a few years ago, when former MP Per Clausen was the traffic rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, there was a motion for a resolution calling for the introduction of a motorway moratorium. So, if not forever, for 10 or 12 years, I think, there should be a complete stop to investment in motorways. Is it still gone Enhedslisten's policy that one does not want to invest a single penny in motorways in Denmark? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141157	Yes, it may be that you have to invest in cutting up some asphalt. It is possible that you can outbid in this way. But in any case, I would say that it is always a matter of priority, and we have some priorities that are very much ahead of motorway priorities, in terms of public transport. We could also consider, as we did at one time in Copenhagen, whether water transport was also a beneficial option, in other words, as we do with, for example, water transport. The port bus. It now turns out to be very, very interesting in these times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141227	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141228	Well, I'd like to get a little closer. We agree that public transport is important, but do we recognise Enhedslisten that in fact half of the public transport, namely the buses, is actually on asphalt? So that is why I sometimes find it difficult to understand the opposition to building the physical infrastructure called roads, because it is actually a large part of the public traffic that is dependent on it. And if we also agree on the premise that the cars of the future must be green, then I do not quite understand that little ideological resistance to roads in relation to rails.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141304	This is a little regrettable, but it is very obvious when you see how much less congestion it creates when it happens as public transport. Therefore, the existing road network can easily carry all buses after the switch to electricity and what else is possible. When all buses drive green on those roads, there will be no congestion to the same extent as when driving single cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141326	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141336	Thank you very much, President. I will try to be brief, as I look forward to going back to South Jutland, where I will have the day packed with constitutional speeches tomorrow and where I will drive around the South Jutland by car. Thank you very much to LA for tabling these motions for resolutions. There is no doubt that we are very, very many people who want to get on with some capital investment. This creates both growth and jobs, and we would very much like to do so. We would very much like to support the proposal and contribute to doing something on our roads. It is not, of course, because we as such have something against railways or public transport, but there are just a few aspects that we need to take on board before we start on public transport. One is, of course, about the railways and how worn it is and how we are going to get that process going. The second thing I really think is really important here is that we should have figured out what the customer of the future in public transport looks like, because there is no doubt that corona has done a great deal about public transport and is going to do a great deal about public transport, only that a great many people have seen zoom and skyping meetings, etc., can save a great many trips across Storebælt from Jutland to Copenhagen and hopefully the other way too. That makes a difference in future consumption. I think we should have a study of this before we can get to grips with public transport. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141518	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141537	In New Citizens, we have a clear priority. We give priority to roads and the development of our infrastructure. The infrastructure is what binds the country together. It contributes to growth and prosperity and therefore, of course, it must be given priority. I don't want it to be postponed. It must be planned, and I would be happy to do so for many years to come. We need a good infrastructure in Denmark, an infrastructure that allows the Danes to travel better and easier around the country. Personally, I myself sit in line every day on the Hillerød motorway, and I am certainly not the only one. The Danes queued for 375,000 hours on an average daily life in 2016. That's 77 million hours all year. And according to the Road Directorate, this represents a socio-economic loss of 24 billion. kr. It's just not good enough. We need to invest in better roads. We need to develop and expand, because infrastructure is what binds the country together, and that must, of course, be a priority. We support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141656	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604141706	Thank you. And first of all, I would like to thank the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and New Citizens for their support for this resolution. As far as the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives are concerned, and also as far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, as I myself come from, it was no surprise, because together we have made a plan to expand the transport infrastructure in Denmark, which we have put forward to the Danes. And the projects included in this motion for a resolution are the projects that we think should start in 2021, and the resolution is therefore about the things that have to start in 2021. New citizens have arrived in the Danish Parliament, and New citizens also support the idea that ambitious investments in infrastructure should be made in Denmark, and support the motion for a resolution, which is particularly welcome. When I joined as Transport Minister in November 2016, I started work within the Ministry together with the officials who are there to find out where the urgent need for infrastructure investment in Denmark is. Where are the greatest needs? And how much money would you need to implement all the necessary projects in Denmark? And that was a considerable amount, we found out. And then we went to the other government then, the VLAK government, and also got there support, even in the Ministry of Finance, to find the money needed to implement all these projects. Then the goal was to obtain a majority for it in the Folketing. The Danish People's Party was a necessity; the Danish People's Party was part of the parliamentary basis for the government, and we also knew that the Danish People's Party was friendly to investments in infrastructure. Should we bring the Social Democratic Party as well? We would like to, but the Social Democratic Party said publicly that they would not spend a penny on better roads Denmark until they had received 15 billion. kr. To implement the Train Fund phase two and the Train Fund phase two were a number of projects which were far less sensible than the projects we had in our own plan. So before we could embark on the sensible projects of our own plan, the demand for Social Democracy was that we should implement and find money for the more unreasonable projects of the Social Democratic Train Fund plans. This ultimate demand from the Social Democratic Party made it impossible for us to reach an agreement that reached across the Social Democracy of the then Parliament. We knew that the Social Democratic Party had already gone into an election campaign at the time and that the Social Democratic Party would not recognise to the electorate that phase two of the Train Fund was not a plan that should be implemented to the letter. So because the Social Democratic Party would not recognise that the two stages of the Train Fund should not be implemented to the letter, we would not be able to include the Social Democratic Party in an agreement because the Social Democratic Party would like to convince the electorate that we would both have a number of roads, but would also implement the whole phase two of the Train Fund. So we did what we could and which was sensible, namely to find a majority of the parties that went responsibly and realistically to infrastructure negotiations for Denmark. And we managed to reach agreement on a plan of 112 billion. kr. 112 billion kr. kr. was for rail projects and the 60 billion. kr. were for road projects, i.e. almost a fifty-fifty distribution, but with a small overweight for road projects. We found the road projects extra important, because the previous traffic agreement dated 2009, called "A Green Transport Policy', distributes 100 billion. kr. for infrastructure investment in Denmark, two thirds of which goes to the railway. Quite contrary to what Mr. Henning Hyllested, who is the transport rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, has had Mrs Jette Gottlieb say here from the platform, so there is a lot of money spent in these years to make the railroad better also far more money than the 10%. the transport work which is being carried out on the rails may actually justify. But the railway is expensive, and even if it may not carry much, it needs a lot of money to be spent on it. Here in our plan there were a number of projects that could start already in 2021, and this was the extension of the East Jutland motorway around Aarhus S to Aarhus N, the extension of the E20/E45 at Kolding, that is, at the intersection of the motorway there, the extension of the E20 south of Odense, increased capacity on Motorring 3 in Copenhagen, the extension of the Hillerød motorway from Motorring 3 to Motorring 4, increased capacity on Route 15 between Herning and Ringkøbing, the expansion of the E55 between the South Motorway and Nykøbing Falster, and finally the expansion of Route 40 between Ålbæk and Skagen. Now we are in June 2020. Six months from now, we'll write 2021. The government that sits today has had almost a year to call for negotiations on the infrastructure agreement that this government wants. We understand from the government that it is very important that, for example, it is also important. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which are opposed to any road development in Denmark, are also part of a broad agreement on infrastructure. We find it difficult to see that this can be done, but it is important for the government that we should also bring them with us. Yet the government has not called for any negotiations. And now we're standing here six months before we enter 2021, and nothing has happened. This means that all the voters who were told by the Social Democrats in the election campaign that they could safely vote for the Social Democrats, because the Social Democrats would also make important local transport investments, can now see that this is not true. Our attempt to remind the government that things should start in 2021 is this resolution. The Social Democrats and the government have already announced that they cannot vote in favour. It has also been announced that it is not really known when negotiations will be convened. So we must now consider it likely that social democracy will not or will hardly start infrastructure investments by 2021 at all. One cannot rule out a few projects from the 2021 Finance Act if we are lucky, but we can hardly count on eight projects, as is the case in the Blue Investment Plan in 2021, despite the fact that the Social Democratic Party of the electorate said in the election campaign: we want exactly as much infrastructure investment as in the Blue Agreement. We're just as ambitious. Dear people in North Jutland, who would like to have a road between Ålbæk and Skagen, vote calmly on the Social Democracy, because we want the same thing. Dear people in Aarhus, who want to expand the E45 around Århus, vote calmly on the Social Democracy, because we want the same thing. Dear people around Kolding, who can see that you are queued in the motorway crossing between E20 and E45, vote calmly on the Social Democracy, because we want the same thing as the Blues. Dear people of Odense, calmly vote for the Social Democracy. We want exactly the same thing as the blue ones. We will also expand the motorway around Odense etc. etc. That was the message of the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign. And now we have to look into 2021, where we can expect that the infrastructure investments that were chosen will not be launched. It is, it must be said, very, very disappointing, not only for us who share a seat in the Folketing with the Social Democracy and the Government, but especially for the Danes who are queued on the roads and cannot get back and forth in the morning when they go to work, and in the afternoon when they go home from work. They believed that the Social Democracy would initiate about the same as the Blue Parties, but the Social Democracy will not bite to fuck, the Social Democracy will not call for negotiations, the Social Democracy will continue to use bad excuses like Corona, when the reality is that already before the Corona, back in 2019 when you made your first Finance Act for 2020, you decided to cut 4 billion. kr. of the investment framework. That's 4 billion. kr., for which there are no motorway investments or other traffic investments. It is, of course, there that the decision that you cannot be as ambitious as the blue parties is being taken. That is where it is decided that 4 billion. kr., which was earmarked for investments, instead needs to be spent on something else: higher cash benefits, more educators • what do I know about what they have been spent on? At any rate, they have been taken from the investment framework and are now the reason why not a single penny will be spent on the road network by 2020, and that there may not be a single penny spent on the road network by 2021, and we do not know what will happen in 2022 and 2023. But I am pleased with the support of the other blue parties. We are united in transport policy. This can hardly be said of the red majority ruling today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142707	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142711	Thank you. I was sitting down here wondering why Mr. Ole Birk Olesen did not begin to mention Thorvald Stauning, Jens Otto Krag, Anker Jørgensen in connection with all those who were responsible for the fact that this was not happening. I believe that the lesson to be learnt from the parliamentary elections last year is that when the voters speak, they must be listened to. We got a new government, we got a new majority, we got a new majority, which wants a green Denmark and which is very ambitious. And I am pleased that other parties on the other wing are also involved in reducing CO2 by 2030. That is something important to take into account in planning the infrastructure of the future, for the truth is that Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen was Minister for Transport, he would not accept the responsibility for making the green transition, but the current Minister for Transport will, that is what the current government will do, and that is why the green will of course have to be considered. Then we've been hit by a huge bump on the road called corona. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen really, that the fact that we have lost an incredible amount of money by the year 2020, is just something you have to look at big and then just drone out there and spend money as if nothing had happened? Is it not sensible to breathe and then take the negotiations only when we have a better basis for decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142826	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142828	It is not only I who think it is a bad excuse to use the Corona not to start negotiations on an investment plan; it is also Mr. Thomas Jensen's own Finance Minister, who, when asked, says that the Corona situation and the fact that we have had to spend some disposable money now do not affect the economic structures of Danish society in the future, does not affect the structural sustainability of public finances. That is why it cannot be used as an argument that road investment cannot be set in motion. There is broad agreement among wise people and also on the part of the Finance Minister: that it does not affect structures. The majority that was elected in the 2019 elections was the majority that the Danes said: we have to make a number of transport investments. It was all the blue parties and the social democracy. The only reason that the majority is not in the Chamber today is because the Social Democrats are running away from their promises in the election campaign. The Danes were presented by a majority of the parties that they wanted to expand the transport infrastructure in Denmark, including the roads, but the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142934	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604142936	Social democracy has not changed its attitude and social democracy does not run from anything at all. When the Social Democratic Party went to the polls, we placed a catalogue rather than showing our willingness to negotiate with the then Minister for Transport. There was then not exactly the will to drag Social Democracy into such a settlement. Now we have a new Parliament, and the will is still gone for a broad settlement, because it is a strength not only here in the Folketing but also for the citizens that as many parties as possible are involved in making decisions about major infrastructure investments in the coming years. That is why the Social Democratic Party is absolutely firm that this is something that needs to be done at some point when we have the basis for decision and that it should preferably be done broadly in contrast to the former minister who only wanted to do it blue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143021	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143025	But it is the Social Democrats themselves who say that the majority is gone. It must be because the Social Democrats do not consider themselves to be part of the majority that would be in the Folketing in order to make infrastructure investments if otherwise the Social Democrats stood by what had been said in the election campaign. After all, it is you from the Social Democratic Party who keep saying: 'Well, there is a new majority now'. No, there is a majority for infrastructure investment unless the Social Democrats do not care about the promises made in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143059	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143114	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143130	Thank you. After all, the senior premium was created to ensure that even more people want to work longer than their retirement age. Therefore, you can now get approx. 43,000 kr. the first year, if you want to work another year. In order to ensure that people will also have a firm link with the labour market, which is the whole idea of it, an employment requirement of 1,560 hours in one year is made. It can just be difficult for many to keep that link with the labour market when the country has been shut down as it has now been. That is why it is proposed to change this employment requirement temporarily to 1,040 hours, which corresponds to 4 months. This will in particular help people who are sent home without pay or possibly fired, but it will also make it easier for those who do not have so many hours in advance at work. The Social Democrats support the proposal and I should like to welcome it from the SF and say that they will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143225	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143234	Thank you. Corona has had and still has influence on many different areas of Danish society, and not least employment, which has plummeted and where there are now nearly 50,000 more unemployed. Many have lost their livelihood in everyday life, lost their livelihoods, and the corona has changed much too many. Despite this, we still live away generally longer and have several healthy years of life, which involve several active years in the labour market. Therefore, seniors must continue to be rewarded for postponing the pension with the grandchildren. In the past, we have introduced the possibility of receiving a tax-free senior premium, which has made it more attractive for seniors to take an extra job. We have done so because seniors represent a valuable labour reserve and robust know-how for a great many companies. Better conditions for seniors in the labour market are important, and this leads to more people choosing to continue working in their golden years and contributes to an economically sustainable welfare society. We need this, and we particularly need it at this time. However, with the Corona's influence on the Danish labour market, it has been challenging for some to meet the senior premium's employment requirements, and we would therefore like to support this bill that temporarily reduces the employment requirement so that seniors are not punished by the corona's tentacles. The Left is therefore voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143424	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143437	With the introduction of a senior premium, seniors who continue to work after retirement were entitled to a senior premium. An employment requirement was introduced that they worked 1,560 hours during the earning period. The Corona crisis and the many people who were repatriated mean that they couldn't earn the 1,560 hours. Therefore, the employment requirement is temporarily reduced to 1,040 hours. This reduction shall apply only to persons who are covered by the period from 1 March to 30 June. This compensates people in the target group who, due to the health crisis, are affected by unemployment or are being repatriated. Against this background, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143542	Thank you. Once you have reached the retirement age and continue to work, you can get a tax-free senior premium, and that is a very good idea, because it creates an incentive among seniors to maintain their attachment to the labour market, also on the other side of the retirement age, and it is valuable for the Danish labour market. In order to obtain the senior premium, you have to work at least 30 hours a week on average over one year, equivalent to 1,560 hours in a whole year. In the light of the health crisis and subsequent unemployment, it would be only fair to reduce the hourly requirement, and this benefits those who have lost jobs or have been sent home without pay. This is supported by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143637	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143648	Thank you. The Corona crisis affects all sections of society, including the ability of seniors to work, and it is therefore logical that the employment requirement should also be reduced in order to obtain a senior premium. Having said that, I would like to note that the senior prize has never been our cup of tea. After all, the Senior Prize extends the inequalities that exist in our working conditions. The possibility of a senior premium is granted to those who can continue their working life beyond retirement age. It is not an option for those who start early and have a hard-to-wearing job. I don't think poor Arne gets the chance to get a senior prize, and I guess that goes for Bjarne too. But when we vote in favour of the proposal, it is because the Corona crisis paused everything, and it is not going to happen to the seniors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143738	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143749	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of rewarding people who work hard and diligently. This also applies to older people who choose to continue on the labour market after they reach retirement age. There is still a need for them in several parts of Danish society. It is only right that we, as responsible legislators, should adjust the demands we make on the elderly in the labour market when reality changes dramatically. It is therefore sensible and proper that we should temporarily reduce the requirement to be able to receive the tax-free senior premium to 1,040 hours of pay if the period from 1 March to 30 June is included in the 12-month profit period. In order for the Danish economy to emerge stronger from the crisis, we need jobs with experienced heads and hands. Therefore, we believe that it is beneficial to reward the elderly for staying longer in the labour market and helping to get the wheels in Denmark to turn around in these difficult economic times. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143900	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143906	Thank you. That's a good suggestion. We can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143910	Very briefly, thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143917	The Liberal Alliance can agree completely with everything that has been said from the platform by other rapporteurs. We are therefore also voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143926	Thank you. Then we are through the rapporteur's line. The next to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604143936	Thank you very much, and many thanks to the rapporteurs for the comments on the bill, which translates parts of the agreement on aid packages for employees and companies etc. in connection with the gradual reopening of Denmark. This bill supports that people who work after reaching the retirement age can continue to be rewarded with the tax-free senior premium, even though Denmark has been partially closed down. The draft law provides that the employment requirement for earning the tax-free senior premium will be temporarily reduced to four months. The reduction shall apply to persons in whom the period from 1 March 2020 to 30 June 2020 is included in their earning period. The health crisis and the partial decommissioning of Denmark make it harder for seniors to earn enough employment to be able to obtain the tax-free senior premium. The draft law must be seen in the context of the introduction of the senior premium in order to provide an increased incentive for a person who has reached the age of retirement to maintain his or her attachment to the labour market. I would therefore like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604144048	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604144110	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604144213	I shall then try professionally to avoid showing that I am out of breath. It went quickly down here in the Chamber. I would like to say first of all that I am pleased that the debate is being taken up. I think it is very important. Last year there was an Egmont report that really took us through not only the time of school start, but also how in relation to school startup. And it showed, among other things, that there is a rather large social battle side and that it will bite if you do not get a proper start to school. That is why I think it is extremely important that we discuss this issue. The proposal that is here suggests that we should be required to table a legislative proposal to postpone the start of school as early as this parliamentary year. This means that children must be able to start school in August in the calendar year of their 7th birthday. Today there is compulsory education in the calendar year when they reach the age of 6, and parents can then request that their child begin school one year later, but in the end it is up to the municipal council and the decision is usually made on the basis of an individual examination of the pupil's maturity. New citizens then propose that the rules should be designed in such a way that the parents can decide in their own right when the child should start school. Sometimes, I think, we are too busy sending children and young people through our education system. There is no doubt about that at all. And the government is of the opinion that it would be wise to take the top of the rush. It is a pity for the children when we hunt with them and it is stupid of us, because when we spend so much resources educating our children, we should at least make sure that the head is actually also prepared to learn. For some children who are not given the opportunity today, it would be healthy to start one year later in school than expected. 6% to 7%. In fact, the start of school is postponed, but it is a fall from 14 per cent. earlier down to this level. After all, all six-year-olds are not the same, and there can be quite a difference in whether children can sit still, or whether they cannot sit still, whether they are ready to receive learning, and whether they are mature enough, even if they are born on exactly the same day. So professional, social and emotional problems at school start can actually last very long into school, and poor school attendance at school can follow them later in life and in the further education course. If the child is defeated, it will be difficult to create enthusiasm for the school, and then it will be very long school years. So I understand the kids dreaming away in class and having a really bumpy school start. It is also the children who often have problems with relationships with comrades or parents, and they have much more often than others a low school career during the first few years of school. There may also be all kinds of other circumstances. It may be parents who have just divorced, so there is grief, and there is chaos, and that is, there may be some social circumstances that make you need to calm down and not fill your head with more than is necessary. It is true, as New Citizens notes, that parents know the children best. There is no doubt about that at all, and it is often, but not always, an advantage. For example: I think my children are the most beautiful and the smartest children on the planet at all.I actually think that's how most parents feel, even though I know that all of you think the same about your children, that is, that they are the most beautiful and wise and clever of all children. And both things cannot apply in the same room at the same time, but that is the individual starting point we have. As parents, we are overwhelmed by love for our children, and it is a love that sometimes colors everything we see, namely beautiful, lovely kids. But it's also a love that sometimes terrifies us. We are terrified of letting go. We may sometimes think that they can do a little less than what they can actually do to allow anxiety to take over; that they are too shy, too delicate; and we fear that they will be rolled down to school. And that's why you can think it might be better to wait 1 year, so that your little pus has become a little more robust. That may in some cases be absolutely right, and in other cases you might just have to have that little push where someone has said: Your child can actually be incredibly much more and is incredibly much more robust than what you think. That assessment can, I think, typically come from some educators who are around the child and who know the child and who can therefore help to make some suggestions about what is good and bad. So sometimes the children are actually ready, and there it is the parents who are nervous, and we are actually not always so good at seeing, both for good and for evil, our children, perhaps because they are just so close that we do not see the overall picture. Children's school start should not be postponed for nothing, but at the same time the start should be determined according to what is needed. We need to find a balance where parents who know the children best are, of course, the most important players at all, but also where it is possible that both educators and day-care managers are involved in the decision. They are experts on the educational part and see the child more from the outside than the parents do, and that is why I really believe that we should find a place where it is a fine interaction between one and the other. Where we are not allowed to go is that it is actually cheaper to have a school child than it is to have a day care child, and then that is the starting point for how much of the children should start school. So summa summarum is that I do not want to be involved in going all the way to the ditch, saying that it is the decision of the parents alone. On the other hand, I think we've gone too far into the other ditch. This means that we have to find some kind of variant in between. And the government has also been discussing this issue in connection with the understanding paper, and I think we should start to find that variant in between. But in the model that New Citizens have put forward here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604144903	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604144908	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for responding to the proposal at least some way along the way. Because, as the Minister rightly says, we have seen a sharp drop in the number of children leaving school. I have to be honest and say that on my own body I have experienced this with how frustrating it is to stand with some children who have arrived too early in school and I have experienced this both as a parent and as a teacher. And we just have to recognise that a lot of people, especially boys, need some more time to play when they're young, and I think that as parents you are the ones who know the children best, and that is why it must of course be us who have the opportunity to say that the child is not ready to go to school yet, and then get shot it 1 year. So I would really like to hear a little more about what the Minister is saying about coming a bit along the way, because what is the Minister thinking? How, then, should the rules be relaxed? Because right now we can at least see that there are quite a lot of people getting stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145009	Well to put it completely, as it is, I had asked my ministry to look at different models just before corona broke out. In other words, I am, in effect, open to looking at this in a relatively foreseeable future. But I'm not ready, and my department isn't ready to present a model either. I haven't looked through it politically yet, and I don't know whether it should be the models that have been put forward. But it's just to say that I had kind of started the process in this area to uncover it properly, and when I have the Egmont Foundation's report in such fresh remembrance, it's simply because I've been sitting and looking at it exactly in order to try to see how best we get over the ice with it. So it is a promise that I would really like to take part in looking at it, but we need to get our society a little more back into normal life before I can promise that there will be a play about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145104	Thank you so much. I got a little curious about some of what the Minister said. I have never, in fact, ever met those parents who are really afraid that their children will start school, especially when they talk to some good people in day care etc., if they are insecure. And most of us probably also know about the fact that we can have children that are very, very different. I have two boys of my own who are very different. One was clear very, very early, and the other was not ready until something later. So I actually have a lot of faith that parents can decide for themselves. So what is it that stands in the way of the Minister thinking that it should just be a decision it is up to the parents to make, i.e. whether the child starts as 5-, 6-, or 7-year-old?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145145	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Hey, shouldn't I answer? I think I am the one to answer Mette Thiesen's question). Sorry, we need an answer. Then we get answers from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145210	Now I was completely confused about what the question was, because now I went somewhere else entirely. Can't I just have that repeated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145219	Yes, we can dispense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145219-2	I'll be happy to repeat it. This was actually just the point of children being different, as the Minister also mentioned, and my question was actually just: what is the Minister's position in the way of this decision being one that lies with the parents, i.e. whether the child should start when it is 5, 6 or 7 years old? Because that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about maybe 11 or 12 years. We are talking about whether they should have the opportunity to shoot it one more year and leave the child in kindergarten another year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145244	What I may have missed was the part about the rapporteur saying that she does not know that parents cannot make that assessment. I do. Now I have spent many years with the social area, and there are children who are forcibly removed from their parents, and there are children who are forcibly removed from their parents right up into the youth years, where they should have been removed when they were 2 years old, and not when they are 13-14 years old, and those parents also have children in the day institutions. This means that there is something about finding a balance in it: where there is no need to step in in one way or another, and where one has to say that there is therefore a concern for the child, which is more important, because it may be difficult for parents to make an assessment. I think this is the most obvious example of the fact that there are therefore some situations in which it may be a very good idea for us as a society to take our place in the best interests of the child simply because the child cannot speak for himself. It is always extreme, of course, because only 13,000 children in Denmark have been removed from home, but it should also be enough to say that there might well be some idea that you have strings in a group that are very vulnerable. So I'm not really prepared to make such rules where you go very far in terms of who should decide. Just to make the cut: I do not imagine that you as a community or community should come in and say that the majority of parents cannot figure out how to make that assessment themselves. In fact, I am very close to having the same starting point as the rapporteur, namely that most parents can easily do so themselves, and they must, of course, do so. And then I actually think that there is such a thing with rights in it, because as a parent I think that one of the best things I have experienced is the times when you get a good professional assessment from the educators or the teachers who are around your children. So in some way I would like to have the duality into it that all parents are allowed to do so.I think most educators also deliver that regardless of what is in the cards, that you can of course turn to them if you are in doubt, so that you are not such a desert island where you have to do something individually, but that you actually have the opportunity to get the professional assessment. It is just to say: we must remember, when we make legislation in Denmark, that there are also children who have quite, quite difficult conditions and a quite difficult start to life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145450	I guess we got a thorough answer, too. I do not think we should open up the third question. Mrs Marie Krarup
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145459	Thank you. I think I heard the Minister say in his speech that we should be careful that it does not become a cashier like the other extreme. I really agree with that. It must not be simply a matter of reducing costs, of having children who are not prepared to go to school, forced into school or persuaded to go to school. But exactly how can we prevent that mechanism? Does the Minister have any idea what exactly can be done there? Perhaps there will be more reason to table a motion for a resolution on this than simply saying that it should be the decision of the parents. But what can be done in this area to avoid cash thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145546	I love that theorem: If you think education is expensive, try ignorance. That is actually exactly what is happening here, namely that if we save some money because some children are being sent too soon, it is simply the most expensive money we have ever saved because it sits down for the rest of the child's education period. In relation to what you can do, I would say that I thought we were closer to a real cut under the old rules, compared to what percentage we imagine could benefit from a deferred school start. In other words, in Denmark we have at least tried to be closer to a situation where I thought there was a reasonable balance, and therefore I think we really have a knowledge of what it could be for some mechanisms that could be replaced by the present ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145628	So this is about getting the decision back to educators and parents and away from school management and municipal council. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145638	Yes, it is, although I am not ready to present a model yet, as I said in my previous reply. It is simply because in the question of how exactly the cut should be added to the list whether it is the educators who stop or whether it is the parents who stop and what you do, if they are so divided, there are some finer details that I simply did not finish before the corona broke out. That's why I'm not ready to make a concrete model. But yes, in it lies precisely that you go closer to the state we had in the past, which means that it will be more a professional judgement and parental judgement than it has been over the past few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145712	Thank you for your patience with regard to the formal errors, and thank you to the Minister. We shall now move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604145727	Thank you. Thank you for the proposal from New Citizens, which raises an important debate and perhaps a debate that is also shaped by some general trends in the time when we have had an incredibly high focus on everything going very fast, that we should hurry and that we should be clear and move on and beyond the ice. There is no doubt that we have seen some unfortunate consequences for, among others. Our children and young people who have been extremely pressured. One of the elements thinks we're a premature school start. The minister mentioned the Egmont Foundation's research and the fact that if you go to school too early, or perhaps more precisely, if you get a bad start on school time, which an early school start may be one of the reasons, then it follows you all the way through the school system. That is why we have been very aware, both before the elections and now in the government, of how we could help to ease some of the pressure that has been going on. After all, it is everything from early school to character bonuses on youth education and training ceilings etc., and fortunately we have already removed a few of the obstacles. After all, the latter two have been settled. And the fact that we need to make it easier to postpone school to prevent children from getting to school too early, and before they are ready for it, was in the scenario we presented before the elections. It is also in the understanding paper we have produced together with the parties behind the government, which is why, of course, it is something that we are working on and, as the Minister said, also something that was on the table and going on before the corona hit. But that doesn't mean it's on the back shelf. This means, of course, that we need to move forward with this discussion on how to make it easier. Mrs Krarup also asked what was to be the model. In fact, what we have said about this is that, as paragraph 1, we want it not to be the municipality fund that decides when to start school and that we want the decision to be made closer to those who know the children well. Now, with this resolution, New Citizen has said that it must be the parents alone. The Minister has explained why the government also believes that the interaction between parents and educators can be beneficial and can provide some valuable insights. But that doesn't change the fact that regardless of whether educators and parents do it in an interaction, it's ever closer to the individual child and the individual child's stage of development that this decision has to be made in the future. That's what we're gonna add up to. It is extremely important to make it easier to postpone school start. Therefore, the government will present a model, we agreed with the parties behind the understanding paper. Of course, we will also discuss that model with the conciliation circle, since this is part of a parliamentary settlement. Now new citizens are not in that circle, which is why it is quite legitimate for this resolution to be tabled in the Chamber. We cannot support it, because this is not the way we want to go, but we would like to work towards making it easier to postpone school start if that is what is right for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150050	Thank you. Mrs Mette Thiesen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150051	Thank you so much. I am very pleased to hear that, because this is a very real problem and, as the rapporteur rightly says, it is really heartbreaking. As I said, I have experienced it myself, and it is really heartbreaking to experience those children who have been pressured into school and who simply should have been allowed to play one more year. But I am a little curious to hear the Minister say it before, and the rapporteur says it now. What exactly is it in this motion for a resolution that stands in the way of parents being able, if they are in doubt, to talk to the educators and get their assessment of how school-ready the child is? There is nothing in the motion for a resolution that stands in the way of that. So where is it that the rapporteur believes that if you vote in favour of this resolution you cannot do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150135	There is certainly something both material and formal, one might say that stands in the way of us simply voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. If you have to take the substance, it is true that it may well be that parents actually reach for a sparring and advice, but it may also be that parents are not in a position where they are able to assess it without professional sparring and advice. And that is why the Minister is asking whether we should not also ensure that everyone is entitled to do so in a conversation with some of the others who know the children from day-to-day life in kindergarten and who also have valuable input. So it is really also just a question of ensuring that it is the best decision for the child, but of course it is not a question of dragging the decision further away from the child. In this way, we agree with New Citizens that the decision must be made among those who know the child. Then it is true that there is also a common christian in saying that we support the intention in this way, but that we simply have an agreement, on the one hand, with the parties behind the understanding paper and, on the other hand, with a public school conciliation group, where we have to have this discussion before we go to the Chamber and vote in favour of a resolution. New citizens can be pleased that we agree on what should happen far along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150258	I stand and smile because it was simply such a delightful refreshing and honest answer, so thank the rapporteur for that. I still welcome the fact that we agree with the intention at least. But what I really just wanted to say was what the minister said before the debate was that this is, in the end, about the parents making the final decision, and as parents it is very natural that you listen to the professionals who are around the child. I am quite confident that most parents do. Then the Minister mentioned that there are some individual parents who have some other challenges with their parent role and where their children are in a special situation. But that is quite, very few, and there is already, most likely, the municipality with some other stakes. So I think we should take the tiny group away and then say that this is about whether as parents you should have the opportunity to make a decision that your child instead of starting at 6 years old can start at 7 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150401	I always try to be honest and, if the rapporteur is pleased, it is of course a good thing, but I do not think it can be so surprising that we agree with the intention, because we put forward a proposal before the elections, which stated that a delayed school start should be easier and that the decision should be made closer to the child than it is today. And we have even written in our understanding paper when the government took office that we wanted to. So it is obvious that we agree on that. When I say that with the conciliation circle, and I assume that this is what the rapporteur referred to, it is because, when some parties have made an agreement in the field of school, we have also agreed that if we want to make changes, we will start by talking about what changes we have to make, instead of going down to the Chamber and voting down. And these are the rules of the game that we have put in place to take account of agreements and to comply with agreements we have made, but fortunately this is not in the way of a change in this area, because there we agree with the rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150457	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, there are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604150514	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. - Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for presenting the motion for a resolution we are debating today. After all, the discussion about delayed school start is not new, because we have actually discussed it if not every year so almost every year for very many years. At first, it was based on the fact that, unfortunately, if we look further back, so many children and young people who generally started very late in school, and we were also on average with a higher school start age than they did in very many also comparable countries. If we look at recent years, including when I had the pleasure of being Minister for Children and Education, we could in some places have a concern that one was too square in one's assessment municipally, in relation to which children might have a need for individual consideration in relation to school startup. If we look at the characteristics of which children are expected to be 0-class perverts, without having to turn it into square boxes, we can also say with the report that appeared from Think Tank Dea this week, that without saying that they all look the same, there is an overweight of boys, and there is also a overweight of boys born at the end of the year, and there is an overweight of boys coming from homes where father and mother either have no education at all or have a shorter education. When you can see that there are some patterns and some characteristics, in relation to who it is, that do not get the start of school time that we want all children and young people who may end up sitting without looking forward to going to school and who, from the start of school, end up having a bad experience, there is also the greater responsibility for the municipalities to have an eye on both the group of children but also for the individual child. The resolution we are debating today has good intentions. Basically, the best interests of the child must be pushed forward and the influence of the parents strengthened. Citizens must be put before the system, as we say in the Left, and we basically agree with that. Today, the rules are such that the decision to postpone education by one year after compulsory education has taken place always requires the consent of the parents, but on the other hand the parents are not entitled to deferment. The decision on deferred school start is taken today by the municipal council, possibly. on the basis of an individual examination of the maturity of the pupil. Parents cannot therefore veto the start of school as it is today if they do not think that their child is mature enough, and on the other hand their child cannot put off school without the parents' agreement. It is, of course, a balance and consideration that we have chosen to take. From the Left we do not think that there will be so many problems with children who get a bad start at the school, if you locally chose to take more cutlery off, both what it is for some children we can see characteristically often end up in 0th grade, but also if you become much better locally to involve parents and to listen to parents. Because what characterises a great many of the inquiries that I think we are all getting is that parents find that they are not being involved, that they are not being listened to, that they are being given PPR, which we will also have to discuss later in the Chamber today, too late and too badly, also in order to make an assessment of whether there can be any conditions that apply to the individual child. That is why we also believe that this discussion must also be based on the fact that we also have a focus on local responsibility, because it is out there that we also need to be much better at ensuring a balance and at involving parents. It is essential for the Left to ensure that there is this balance and that parents are also better involved than they are today and that they are listened to. Nor should it be in the interests of the municipality that we should be faced with a situation in which a child who is not mature and is not ready to start school is pressured to start school with the consequence that the child ends up having to go back to school. Today, approx. 1,300 children 0th grade. It is a figure that we think is too high, and although it is a figure that has been decreasing over a number of years, it is still 1,300 children • 1,300 children for whom the start of school time has not been as it should be for all children and young people. We must not only note this, we must also observe it in a way that ensures that we also ensure that parents are better involved in the future with more local dialogue in this area. These are the intentions I see in the motion for a resolution, but we believe that the resolution goes too far. That is why I also hope, on the basis not only of this treatment, but also of the dialogue we have had across parties over the past many years, that we can also come a little closer to ensuring that we ensure that all children and young people get a better start at school locally. That is why we are also looking forward to the government also presenting a proposal in the conciliation circle because this is what we assume the government does and does not run from the public school conciliation circle, which was also made when the government was last in government and there takes the dialogue that needs to be made in order to ensure that all children and young people have a good start in school. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151047	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151048	Thank you. I myself am the mother of a boy born on 21 December, so I am well aware of that problem; I have been in it myself. I really think the rapporteur started very well, and I know that the Left voted against a similar resolution in the last period, but I just have to hear, because I am a little curious whether the rapporteur can put more words on it, because does the rapporteur really think that the municipality is better at assessing whether the child should start school than the child's parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151123	But for us, it is not a question of whether the municipality is better. In other words, the point is precisely that it must be in dialogue, that it must be in cooperation and that there must be real and proper involvement. And what is at least characteristic of many of the conflict cases, which I believe also end up as an approach not only to myself as rapporteur, but to a great many of us, is that we do not feel that there is a dialogue, that is, that we do not have a qualified dialogue, either with the teaching staff who have been around the child in kindergarten or with the parents. In some places it is also because there is insufficient capacity in the PPR system, which means that in the middle of an investigation that will never be completed, you still insist that the child should start before you have actually mapped out whether there may be diagnoses or whether there may be other problems to be taken into account. It is inappropriate for both parents and not least for the child, but it is also inappropriate for the municipality. That's where we say we have to be careful that we don't just believe in that one size fits all, where we then decide from in here what the model should be, but that we also take into account that there are some municipalities where you actually do this well, and then there are some municipalities where you do it less well. After all, we need to see how we can also ensure that dialogue works properly in a satisfactory way for the children who live in municipalities today, where there is no proper parental involvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151235	Thank you for your answer. I do not really think that there is anything contrary to the proposal we are making with regard to proper dialogue. It may well be, it is just caused by the parents, and we turn around like the boat. What the rapporteur says about the PPR and all sorts of other things is precisely because there are so many extremely bureaucratic links to the possibility of having your child put out of school, and in the vast majority of cases it will therefore also be a question of the parents simply considering that the child is not ready, it is not mature ^ as the rapporteur himself said in relation to this with boys. So why should it be so administratively hassleful and so bureaucratic instead of just saying that the decision ultimately lies with the parents about whether the child should start as a 5-, 6- or 7-year-old, and then they can ask some others for advice if that is what they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151328	1) It does not need to be bureaucratic. 2) We should preferably go where it is not bureaucratic at all. 3) If we look at the analysis work done in the area, we can see that there is a difference between municipality and municipality, both in relation to how many children are allowed to get off school and how many children end up going 0th grade. And that means that it is not the case that you can just look over the 98 municipalities under one and say that it does not work. It actually works very well in some places, including with parental involvement and with respect for when parents are the ones who know their children best and must have the last word, and elsewhere it does not work. We think you can get to where you make it work in a lot more places. I also said at the outset that if you look at the figures, i.e. just the facts that lie behind it, we actually started in a situation if we turn back the time a little more than 10 years, when there were too many children in Denmark who just got off to school, and we got a later and later start on school life, and it is not a place we want to go either. That's why we really think there should be this balance where parents are better involved, but where we also make sure that it doesn't move again towards starting school at the age of 7-8 for a lot of children, as we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151442	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151443	I've had wild and intense expectations up to this procedure. Most of all, I have looked forward to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby going to the platform, because of all the Left politicians who could stand up on the platform, I mostly believed that it was Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby who would change the Left's position on this issue and find out the quite obvious view that the liberal attitude towards exposed school start-ups must be that it is parents and not the system that knows whether your child needs an extra year in day care. And I fully agree with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that, of course, there must be good dialogue and, of course, we must ensure that we have a dialogue on what is best for the child, out locally. But in the end, this is a question of where the right to decide whether or not the child should go an extra year in kindergarten lies. Is it with the system or is it with the parents? Today it is with the system. Isn't it most liberal that it's with the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151550	Well, as I also said, we are of the opinion that the influence of the parents should be more full, but there is also a balance so that we do not come back to the situation we faced just over 10 years ago, where we had generally just got a much later start in Denmark not because of bad will or something, but because we simply had more and more children who started late in school. Nor has it been appropriate, either in relation to the individual child or in relation to the learning motivation as to how old you are when you finish an education. That is why we say that there are balances. But I am just as excited to hear the SF's rapporteur's speech and whether the SF will vote in favour of a resolution which is basically a matter of agreement and which lies in a public school conciliation group. At any rate, I concluded by saying that I expect the government to come back to the public school conciliation circle and not just to make other agreements with other types of party constellations, because this is something we have discussed in the conciliation circle and is bound to settle. That is why I would consider it basically a breach of agreement if we were to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution on something on which we have bound each other in conciliation to agree. So I would also like to see with interest what the SF is voting on the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151700	First of all, there is research which shows that there are children who simply have the best chance of waiting. Now the questioner himself mentioned a report, so there are more reports showing that some children have the best of 1 year extra in the sandbox. So I don't think that's such a big problem. I agree that we should not just lose out, and I agree that there must be a balance. But what is going to be at the heart of the discussion in the conciliation circle is: should the court lie with the municipalities, who in many cases are thinking in economic terms at least that is what this has shown or should the court lie with the parents? What's the most liberal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151735	Well, we want the influence of the parents to be strengthened. That is also what we have been fighting for, while we ourselves have been sitting in government, where we have also had pressure on the municipalities, in relation to the fact that it should not be economic thinking or cash thinking that did not take individual consideration of the child. That is what I have been arguing for today, and I have some doubts as to whether the SF rapporteur actually heard the rapporteur's speech I gave. For this is a problem when there are 1,300 0th grade assistants if they could have had a better start in school life if they had not become 0th grade perverts, but had been allowed to get a later school start. It may also be that there are some of them where going 2 years in 0th grade is the right thing for them, but we have to relate to what the individual child needs, and that balance has not been found everywhere today. It has been found in some places, but there is a need to listen more to the needs of the individual child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151823	Thank you very much to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left and warmly welcome Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604151836	Thank you. You can 10 times more than you think, and 20 times more than your mother thinks. It's such ancient folklore, and it's still holding back. Therefore, there are probably also some parents who have less faith in their children than they should have. However, I would like to say that we recognise that there is a problem with too many people being pushed to school prematurely and that there is a tendency towards cash thinking. So there is a problem that needs to be resolved. If you solve it with this, I doubt it. I think there's more to it. More care must be taken to involve those closest to the child. It should not be the municipal council or the school management that makes the decision alone. It's too far away from the baby. But I do not think that the problem is solved by giving parents a hundred per cent mandate, because there is also a tendency in the time of rushing, to a quest for a different approach to what is also reflected in the diagnosis society • which we must try to dampen. This is done by having close contact between parents and educators, hopefully I would hope that this is what you arrive at so that you find the right decision for the child. We think that we should look for the right model and we look very much forward to the government making some proposals, because we recognise that some changes are needed. However, I think it would be premature right now to vote in favour of a resolution which provides a very square solution to it when we can look forward to there actually being negotiations in this area. That's what we're looking for. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152056	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152057	Thank you. I would just like the rapporteur to elaborate on what dangerous consequences it will have if there are some parents who choose to say that their child must wait and instead start when the child is 7 years old instead of when the child is 6 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152118	But dangerous consequences? It's good if you can start at the right time. I don't suppose there's anything that's directly dangerous about it. You can just say it's unnecessary. And why treat a child differently than is expected. It is always difficult to be put outside the community and asked to go a different way than the others. But there is no such life - threatening thing by following a different path from that followed by the others. But there is no reason for this if there is no really serious factual and professional reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152205	Okay. I must honestly admit that I have very great faith that parents have no wish that their child should start either too early or too late. Most children, as I know from experience, are happy. If they're ready, they're really looking forward to going to school. So I do not fully understand the distrust that parents can make this decision, nor do I see what this resolution stands in the way of having a discussion with, for example, the educators about the child. Can the rapporteur clarify a little why the rapporteur does not think that parents have the competence to take this decision for their children, which is therefore about whether they should start school one year later?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152255	The vast majority of parents will be able to make that decision. Then there will be some who may be overprotective and overpoured, who will have a great deal of concern about it and will not realize that their child can do more than they think. The vast majority of them will, of course, also be able to see in a dialogue with the parties involved, i.e. the educators, that it is not necessary to postpone it. And then there will be some who can't, and there it may be very good that you can finally give them that push so that the child can go to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152334	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. And warmly welcome to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left or as they say in London: radial left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152357	Thank you for that, and thank you to the new citizens for taking up the debate again in the Chamber. The position of the Radical Left, as it has always been on this issue, is that children should start school when they are ready to start school, and not when it fits into the system's boxes. We believe that this is a very real issue and that more and more children are going to school without being ready for it. We believe that this is too expensive for society and, of course, too expensive for the children who are defeated by it. That is why we are also pleased that in the understanding paper we have made an agreement with the government that we will find a solution to this. I am also pleased with the Minister's commitment to look at some solutions and some models. And I would also like to say here that, of course, we believe that these negotiations should come soon. Now we've had a corona crisis. We would have liked to have had the negotiations before the summer break, and we will not, but we certainly want to have them this year. So that's our basic attitude to this. Then I would like to make a few comments on the matter of parents versus educators and local authorities, which I really think is a rather interesting debate. So, first of all, it must never be the economy of the municipalities that determines when children are going to school. That is why we have the debate, because that is what we can see, unfortunately, becoming increasingly so. So in this way it is true that we need to strengthen the influence of parents in this area, but certainly also the educators, because we also hear stories about educators who must not even bring this up in conversations with parents simply because they fear that it will be too expensive for the municipal treasury. And it must never be like that. That is why I also believe that it is important to involve the educators at all. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby mentioned that it might be possible to see almost in advance which children will need school placements, i.e. which children will have difficulty starting early in school: boys; children born at the end of the year; children of parents who are not in education or work. And that, on the one hand, advocates involving the educators and the whole system more in order to identify some of the children in advance where the parents may not be able to see it themselves. On the other hand, I also think it is extremely important to say that parents should have the last word. I believe that what we see today is that it is the very insistent parents, the very resourceful parents I would not call them spoiled, but those who at least have a lot of profit and look forward in time and can see that this is not going to work out, and maybe it is really, really insisting that they have the opportunity to have their children put out of school. And that is not the way it should be: those who do not have enough money to constantly write in to the municipality or to grab the head of the day care institution cannot have their children put out of school. In short, we believe that parents should have the last word, but of course it is also very important to include not the municipality as an institution, but those who are close to the children in the day-to-day life, namely the educators. If we cannot vote for this resolution anyway, it is for procedural reasons, which have also been mentioned by other rapporteurs, among others. This is something we need to take under the auspices of the public school circle. We also have an agreement with the government to find a solution to this together. Then there's also the fact that there's a price on this, and we're going to have to take that into the equation as well. But we fully support the intention of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152736	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152737	Thank you very much, and again thank you for the honesty that it will be a little christiansborgfnidder, rather than just voting for what you actually believe in. A similar proposal was made in 2018 which the Radical Left voted in favour of. Lotte Rod was the rapporteur. She could not actually see why it could be debated at all, because of course it should be the parents who decided in the end. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Radical Left still has the same position, but that it is only such a christian castle with something with a conciliation and everything else and something with some agreements and one thing and the other, or what makes the Radical Left unable to vote in favour of this proposal, which is similar to the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152823	I can fully confirm that the Radical Left shares the same view on this issue. As I also began by saying, children must start at school when they are ready for it. It shouldn't be when it fits into the system boxes. When we vote differently today, it is primarily because we have an understanding with the government that a solution to this will be found. I do not think it is a christian castle; I think it is an expression of the fact that we have already negotiated that something should be done in this area in connection with the fact that we made the paper of understanding. The second difference is that in the resolution we voted on last time there was also, as far as I remember, an indication of what this would cost, and also a proposal for financing, which I believe we did not entirely agree with. But at least a proposal was put forward. We think it is quite crucial that when you put something in the Chamber that costs money, you have also calculated what it costs, and then you may also come up with your own proposal on how to get that money. Again, I do not think that is a scam, but an expression of how we at least think we should work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604152916	Thank you for that answer. I don't quite buy it because it's not a scam, because it's a little tricky when you vote against something that you're really in favour of. Well, it's gonna be, I think, for those of us who aren't tangled in this, some christiansborg chip. But leave it alone. However, as far as the economy is concerned, it is just a question of the municipalities being required to let the parents have the last word, and then they have to find out. We know that there is a great deal of money in the municipalities that is being spent on everything completely irrelevant. That's where we think this is some of the stuff you need to focus on. Of course, we should be able to afford that x number of children and that is not so many children we are talking about; in fact, it is not very many in the vast majority of municipalities who are asking for it to get school stays. So I don't really buy that either. I am glad that the Radical Left supports the intention, but I still think it is a little christiansborgfnidder when you do not vote for something you really think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153015	We can have a semantic discussion about it. Christiansborgfnidder I would think was if I made a personal question about this and did not acknowledge the premise. I say very honestly what is our position, but I would like to go so far as to say that it is christiansborglogic that we have some ways we work in here, where there are some things that need to be done in some forums, and some in other forums. We have an agreement with the government and we also have a public school conciliation group, and we have a wish that for the resolutions we are voting for there is funding and a funding proposal. We are not going to print bills to the municipalities, which we are not looking at how we can at least partly help to lift from here, so that is the reason. And I don't think it's a scam, but I'd like to go so far as to acknowledge that it's a christiansborg logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153103	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153114	Thank you for that and thank you for making another proposal which is very similar to something the SF made in the last period. It is good that New Citizens are inspired in some of our policy areas. Twenty-two years ago, some people made a very important choice for me. When you are a child, you do not always make your own decisions; others do that for you. I remember standing and holding my mother's hand with primary school on one side, left for me, and on the other hand, on the right hand, is the kindergarten, where I have been asking for at least two months in every recess, whether or not I should come to visit, because I liked being there better than in primary school. This morning I can feel something going on, and then I look up at my mom, and then I say, "What's going on?" I guess I've said it a little more childish. And then she says, Jacob, now you get the choice between whether you want to go to school or whether you want to go to kindergarten. And then I went into kindergarten, and then I went back a year. It's the best decision anyone's ever made for me. When I was sent too early to school, I was afraid to talk to anyone. I didn't have any friends, and I wasn't ready at all. I'd rather play all sorts of things with Alexander over in kindergarten. Later, I became the elder. I got more mature. I was one of the bigger boys, what else can matter when you're in a fight. I was faster at developing, and in general it was a really, really good decision. For the other children who started, it was good to get started, but exactly for me, just as it is for many other children, it was good to be 1 year extra in kindergarten. That decision was made by my parents after dialogue with the daycare institution and the school, but it was their right to make that decision, and it was the best decision for me. This is really the example that I would like to have to be the case law: when a child needs an extra year in kindergarten to mature, to learn more, because there are problems with the child's well-being, when the parents' assessment is that it is the best for the child, and when there has been dialogue with the educators, with the professional staff, then it must be so that it is possible. But since they changed the rules and made the kindergarten class compulsory, the number of late school starters, if you can call them that, has fallen from 14 per cent. is 7%. In a municipality, Kalundborg Municipality, there were 1.77 per cent. of the kids who went around. In Ærø it was 17 per cent. of the kids who went around. The practice of the municipalities varies enormously. In some municipalities you budget for not having someone who goes around because you can save money. I think that is absolutely reprehensible. Then it is not about what is best for the children; then it is about what is best for the municipality budget. What is the problem with the legislation today is that when the legal requirement or the right of destination lies with the municipality, it will be - and that is what we can see in the figures - that in many municipalities will be thought of in financial terms and not in the child's best interests. Then children are pushed away, the staff were pressured not to say anything about the child being pushed away, and you do not make the best decisions for the children. That's why the court has to be with the parents. Of course, there must be dialogue with the professional staff. Of course, there must be special attention to those children who really benefit from being in close contact with the day care institution. Of course there is. I agree that there needs to be a balance in this, but I think it is right to say that children should have the right to go one year extra in kindergarten if they need it. They do not have that today; there it is the right of the municipalities to decide on the children. That is why I am extremely pleased that it is in the understanding paper that we have to change this, and we cannot do that without the conciliation parties being involved. It's that simple because it's the way we work in here at Christiansborg. It is a culture that I support very much, because it also means that if the government suddenly changes, the bourgeois cannot run away completely and ensure that no one can be allowed to postpone their school start. That is not what the bourgeois people want; I understand that. It is just to say that I really think it is very good that there is continuity in school policy and that it does not just swing wildly and violently from time to time. So let's do it again. Let's give children the right to an extra year in kindergarten. It's in the understanding paper. I also hear that there are several parties today who are not on the understanding paper saying that they are ready to discuss it. And then let's make the decision that's best for the kids. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, also because I actually believe that the decision taken on the understanding paper is a better proposal than to lay down a general age of seven years. The vast majority of children will be ready when they are 6 years old. So let's do the right that says that if you're not ready when you're 6 years old, then you have to have the right to an extra year. It is simply a better proposal that we have in the understanding paper and therefore we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153634	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153636	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I'm not going to say anything about christiansborg chips, because I understand that's what you stick to. I'm just glad that there seems to be a fairly broad majority for this to change. What is stated in the motion for a resolution does not necessarily mean that you have to start school one year later; it just means that it is parents who can decide clearly whether to do so. I want to say that this is something I've been fighting for for so many years, so it's not something I've been inspired by, even though we agree with SF on this point. And I guess I can't quite deny that my own mother is also a schoolteacher, so it's a little from there. But I just want to say that I really appreciate the support that is also from here. I do not quite understand that you cannot vote in favour of something you believe in, but I am just glad that there seems to be a majority in favour of this being changed, because it does not work at all as it is today. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153733	In fact, I believe that the proposal we have put forward in the paper of understanding is better, because the starting point is still six years, and here we will see that the starting point is seven years. Then I agree that this is the right of parents, but I think it is actually very sensible that the starting point is 6 years when compared with countries around us. On the other hand, when it is six years old, you must have a right to go back one year, and that is what you do not have today. So I am actually a little more fond of our own proposal, which is why we are not voting for this. However, we are not voting for it either, because it is part of a conciliation process, and a long discussion on the culture of conciliation can then be held. It has been discussed for a long time whether it is poison to parliamentarianism or whether it is a gift to the co-operative popular government. In time, I think I mean the last. Although it may sometimes be a bit awkward and not go as fast as I would like, I actually think it is very sensible that, when you make such big decisions about so many children, there are several parties with, although sometimes you can do solo.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153835	Thank you so much. I'm just getting a little curious, because I'm thinking that there was a conciliation in 2018, too, when the SF voted for this proposal. There has always been a reconciliation between primary and secondary schools, so we can say with the argument that Mr. Jacob Mark's user, we should never be able to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which has somehow been infiltrated in some kind of conciliation. So I just wonder a little bit why, when the SF was in opposition in 2018, it voted in favour of a proposal that was almost completely identical to this and why suddenly you will not vote for it, among other things. on the basis of something with some conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153917	Of course I should have checked that, but in fact I made exactly this proposal on behalf of the SF, because I didn't think it was part of the settlement, and then I ended up dragging it and raising it up in the conciliation circle. And I remember that the speech I gave in 2018 was almost identical to this one, where I also said that we would not vote for it. So if it ends with the fact that we voted for it on the voting list, I do not quite understand it, because then it would be a breach of conciliation. At one point, however, we had a very violent discussion about the fact that the blue parties and the Social Democrats broke the settlement when they did stop tests. So if there's been something there, maybe that's why. However, it is in fact a breach of conciliation if we have voted in favour of this, and I remember saying in my speech that I would not vote for it for that very reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604153956	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154011	Thank you to the new citizens for putting forward a proposal that we in the Enhedslist think is good. Other things would also be strange, as it is very close to the proposal that we made ourselves in October 2018, I think it was. I think it is very important for a flow to be created, a path other than the one that has influenced attitudes towards school start-ups, not just in the last ten years, but in the last 40 years. I have had the pleasure of working with it as far back as the mid-1980s, when school break arrangements were introduced, which were a very significant move towards a previous school start, and we were not enthusiastic in the Enhedslisten either when the compulsory kindergarten class was introduced, and when you look at the developments that have taken place in the last 10 years, we have not been particularly excited, because it has clearly put massive pressure on parents, so that there are fewer and fewer parents who have been accommodated in their desire for their child to start later in school. Sir. Jacob Mark has mentioned the figures back from 10 years ago and the current figures, and if you go back another 10 years, it was more than one fifth of the parents who were met when they wanted a delayed school start. Those figures in themselves are worrying, and when you go in and look at the municipal differences, you can really become even more concerned about what is really going on. When you go down in the figures, you can see that in some municipalities there are a four to five times the number of school start-ups than there are in others. I am quite convinced that, when there are very large municipal differences, it is because the municipal decisions taken are largely dependent on economics, and we are also aware of municipalities that have presented budget statements as part of their savings catalogues, which were a limitation of the postponement of a school start. There is no doubt at all that it is the economy that very much drives the big differences. A 3-4-year-old study from the SFI has also shown that half of the schoolteachers thought that 3 out of 20 children were early in school. So there is simply something wrong with the balance between economic and professional assessment. Against this background, I would also like to say that we in the Enhedslist are very pleased that we have got the agreement in the common understanding paper, and I can perhaps anticipate one question by saying that we see it as a movement in relation to the fact that we made a proposal that was close to what New Citizens are now travelling back in 2018, and that we think that the debate we had there has helped to move in a direction in which I believe that in the four parties that have concluded the understanding paper we are landing on a good proposal, and then I also recognise that there is a dialogue with the parties in the public school circle. I would say in connection with the debates we have had I think we have had them two or three times in the time I have had the pleasure of being here that one of the statements that I have reflected on has been whether we should now give parents an unconditional right to decide, and to that I would say: yes, I think you should. However, I think that good arguments have been put forward • I have also heard them today about how important it is for good and professional advice and guidance to be given to parents, so that the decisions taken by parents are made on a proper, well-lit basis, so that there are no parents who, although one cannot say that parental concerns are unnecessary, may nevertheless, from an uncertainty, come to make a wrong assessment on behalf of their child, without having heard the views of the educational staff in their child's day care institution, without having had a good conversation with the kindergarten class manager or who it is now at school. So our view is that, yes, the parents must have the last word, and in the proposal we made back in 2018, we had actually incorporated it as a commitment there is a small difference to the proposal that New Citizens are now making so that one was obliged to dialogue with the institution and school before making the decision. But we fully agree with the intention. We fully agree that it is the parents who must have the last word, and we hope that we can land on a really sensible agreement with a number of the other parties of the Folketing. Should that not be the case, we would like to return to an alliance with others which would press the decisions even further in the direction we would like to see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154528	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Klausen from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154547	Thank you for that and thank you to New Citizens for an exciting debate. It's a big life event to start school. It is for the parents, and it is for the children. Every year in May, when all the kids start in sfo, my facebook page is filled with pictures of happy children with too big school bags and then a text from the parents that often reads: Stop time. And: How great he has grown up. And when I was standing a few years ago with a couple of kids going to school, I thought, "How did they get so big?" Is it already time for them to start school? 'Cause it's sad to say goodbye to the kindergarten and leave its little grafts to this big school world. We parents are clearly the ones who know our children best... at least that's what we think. However, as Mrs Marie Krarup said, there is such a saying that you can double as much as you think, but ten times as much as your mother thinks. Children can often do much more than parents think, and therefore it is also important that when a child has to start school, there are more people who help to assess whether the child is ready for school. There are several people who know the child's skills: The adults who meet the child every day in their daily offerings do so. And for us it is important that there is a good dialogue between parents and professional staff from the child's day offer about the child's development and maturity, because parents see the child at home, but the staff in the day offer see the child in a different way in the day offer. They see the child socially with others, and they see some quite different skills that we as parents may not always see in our great care. The rules in force state precisely that parents and staff in the child's day care should have a good dialogue about the child's development and maturity. The idea of these rules is precisely that parents and professional staff should come together to decide whether or not to postpone the child. I am well aware that, unfortunately, some municipalities seem to be wondering how many children they allow to leave school, but on the other hand there are also some municipalities that are very good at making a transition between kindergarten and school. Perhaps you could learn something from them. Let me just make it clear: we do not think in any way that it is acceptable to make box thinking. The decision must be taken on an individual basis every time. So it is perhaps a question of finding a way to deal with the municipalities that may not comply with the intention of the rules. The intention of the rules is precisely to choose the best solution for the child in cooperation between parents and professional staff. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we certainly find it exciting that the government and the parties to the conciliation think of a rethink of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154852	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154856	After all, I see Conservatives as a party that has a great deal of confidence in the citizens. One of the things I think I have heard most in my time in politics is that the money is best placed in the pockets of the citizens. Why, then, is it not the case that decisions about people's own children are best made by parents? Therefore, I would also like to ask why Conservatives do not really think it is best that the right to decide whether your children should have an extra year in kindergarten lies with parents, so why is it better that it is with the system than that it is with the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604154939	Well, it's no better that it's with the system, and that's not what I'm saying either. I say that it is better for parents to make this decision in a very good dialogue with the professional staff, because we as parents see one and the professional staff see another. So it is not a question of the municipality deciding here; it is a question of finding a common solution to it. And it is one of the parties that has to make the final decision. And that's what we're saying right now, but it's the professional staff. But that's also why I welcome it and say that it's exciting to see what you're getting to, or what we might all come up with, we just can't support this proposal. But as Mr. Jacob Mark also told, had he been put to school and went there for a few months, and first there the parents saw that it was perhaps a mistake. And it can be said that if you had had a discussion at the time with the day care institution, Mr. Jacob Mark then waited 1 year already there. It is not to blame any parents here, but it is to do with the fact that perhaps the right solution had already been found in a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155045-2	I think there was a dialogue. That is at least what I have heard, and I am also quite sure that the right choice was made, since the only thing I could focus on was lying and digging in a sandbox. But I am actually very pleased with the answer that was given, so that the citizen can do the same himself; the parents can do the same themselves. And I also fully agree that we need to find a solution where we need to be able to consult with the professional staff and where we do not just lose out completely, in other words because we as parents have the benefit of consulting skilled people. After all, however, we will have a discussion about where the final decision lies, and I would just like to hope that Conservatives, precisely on the basis that, after all, the citizen knows best about his own children, will end up saying: we want to be part of an agreement that puts the decision with the parents after the good dialogue and after consultation with the professional staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155134	Mrs. Hanne Bjørn-Klausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155135	Well, the parents must definitely have a big word in this, and I'm excited to see what's coming from you. It must never be cashier's mind. It must be a good dialogue between everyone here. And we just have to remember in the end that this is for the child; it's not for the parents. But it is not for the child's sake that one can also go to school too late. There are also some children who do not benefit from going to school too late, where perhaps a little too much care is waiting, and we have not talked about this at all yet, and I think that is actually quite important to include in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155221	Thank you. There was one more brief comment and it is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155225	Thank you. That is the last thing the rapporteur said, which I really would like to ask a few questions about, because we have actually talked about this, but so far no one has been able to answer what the major, dangerous consequences would be if we were allowed to go to kindergarten for another year. Finally, the rapporteur mentioned that we had not talked about this, but I would just like to know if the rapporteur has anything that the rapporteur can put forward about what would happen if a child were allowed to go to kindergarten for another year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155258	Well, I can do that. After all, there are some children who are actually developed enough to be able to start school and who are allowed to go one more year in kindergarten. It is neither good for the kindergarten group that there is a child who is too mature for the kindergarten group, but it is also not good for the child to be too mature for the comrades when he goes to school. Of course, it is always a balance, but it is also necessary to include it. So it may be the risk of it, i.e. you can also be too mature to be with the other group, and it is neither good for the child nor for the group as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155335	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155336	Thank you for your answer. How many of these are simply allowed to stay too long in kindergarten? Can the rapporteur answer that? For I must honestly admit that I have never actually experienced in my time a child who was kept in kindergarten and who was not allowed to go to school, even though the child was ready for that, I must admit that I do not know about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155401-2	It may be that Mrs Mette Thiesen does not know about it, but I have seen it. And now Mrs Mette Thiesen mentioned that she has a son who was born on 21 December I have a son who was born on 26 December, and there we had that discussion at home with us, my husband and I, about whether our son should be schooled, and we had a lot of disagreement about it. Fortunately, we could go to kindergarten, and they helped us make a decision about it, and he came to school on time, I almost said. He wasn't put out of school, and we've never regretted it. And that's how it is even within the family we can disagree about what's best for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155443	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155452	Thank you for the floor. As several speakers have said, it is a very good idea to prevent children from having a bad start in school. Generally speaking, it is true that the start is half complete, but in relation to the start of school it is extraordinary. A bad start to school can become a shadow that lays down over the next many years. There are many reasons why it can be difficult to decide when your child should start school. Like several other rapporteurs, I have had this in mind myself. I have two children born in the winter months, and is it best that a child born in a winter month, so to speak, begins six months too early or six months too late? In such cases, it is a matter of knowing the child in depth, but it is also important that he is involved in an expertise that knows many children, a expertise that can so coolly assess the child's stage of development, because he can be a little hesitant in the situation where he has a child born in December, January or February, and where he cannot answer the question himself whether it would be best to start six months too early or six months too late. I can also just as well anticipate this liberal question, which has been asked several times, and say that it is the case that when you decide to put your child in a class, you also make a decision that goes beyond other people, because it hurts the other children in the class if you make a bad decision. So, of course, you can't just make this decision like that in completely exalted isolation. I agree with the argument which, among other things, has been put forward. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has argued, and that is how I see it, that there must be a balance between the child's lawyer, and that is the parents, and then a cooler expertise that can assess the child's stage of development and the likelihood of a good start to school. Then you avoid both those cases where it would have been better for the child to have started a little earlier, and those cases which are just as boring, where it would have been better for the child to have started a little later. So the key words in relation to a good school start are a balance between what is good for the child and what is necessary for a school class to also work well. Therefore, the key is also a trusting cooperation between school and parents. We do not believe that this is achieved through a rights-oriented approach that this proposal proposes. We believe more in a dialogue-based approach where consideration for the child and regard for school life and the way the class is going to function are balanced against each other in a sensible way. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155807	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155811	I have a wonder which I hope to Mr. Henrik Dahl can help me get explained so I better understand the policy of the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance is very much in favour of free school elections. It is very important that children and parents should be allowed to choose which schools are the right ones for the children themselves. The same applies in high school, and we will also have a discussion on that in the near future. Young people should be allowed to choose for themselves what kind of high school they want to start at, based on the idea that the children, the young people and the parents know best. I don't want any state sitting there making a judge. Why, then, should parents not decide whether their children need an extra year in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155854	In fact, I tried to explain that in my rapporteur's speech, but I have not done it well enough. It is a liberal principle that you must do what you want as long as you do not bother others. The jumping point is the very thing about bothering others. For a child who is far too early or too late in school will also have a negative impact on the day of school that every other child in the class gets bored if the child is too cognitively developed or having difficulty in going to school if the child is not particularly developed. So a wrong decision can of course become a decision that has quite major consequences for the everyday life of the school for the other children in the class, and therefore there must be some balance between what the parents have of desires and some professional assessment of how to get the best possible school everyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604155955	But does the rapporteur have any evidence that giving children an extra year in kindergarten will bother anyone else? Does the rapporteur have any evidence, any research that suggests that before we made these rules we have had some other rules that were class communities with children that were bothered by children being allowed to go 1 year extra in kindergarten? I have not seen it; I have seen a lot of reports showing that children feel bad about being pushed away too early, and I can promise the rapporteur that it will hurt the class community if there is someone who is not ready to go to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160030-2	Well, I believe that it has an unfortunate impact on the environment in the class if a child has an age-old development both one way and the other way, i.e. both if you are, so to speak, too small to start school, but also if you are too big for it. The key to making a collective exercise as class education work is that the children are approximately equal to their age, compared to what the cognitive can do, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160105	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160108	Thank you so much. I am also a little surprised, I must admit, that the Liberal Alliance stands out in the way they do. But then I'd like to know if you'd like to use the logic that Mr. Henrik Dahl here uses to hear Mr. Henrik Dahl, even if he thinks that it should be the system that decides whether a child, for example, is a child. change school, i.e. whether it should not be for parents to decide whether their child should change school, because changing school can also have consequences for the class into which the child enters. So shouldn't that decision be allowed to lie with the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160140	This is, of course, a polemical question, and I can only give the answer that, of course, parents must have the opportunity to decide that the child can change school. But it is only fair to think about how everyday life in a school class is going to be, and it is clear that if a child is not equal to the age, whether it is one way or another, it will have a negative impact. Some people also have to stand for the view that we need to make school everyday life work and that we need to make the class work. There are, of course, parents who are a lawyer for the child, but some must also be a lawyer for school everyday life to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160230	I just have to ask again, because I do not really think I got a clear answer: who should have the competence to decide that a child should change school, for example.? So, according to the logic used by the rapporteur here, it would be one to one-comparable. So should it be the state that decides that the child must change school, or should it be the parents who must decide it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160255	I am sorry, but I still regard the issue as a polemical issue. Well, of course, the state doesn't have to decide who has to change school. It's clear. One can, of course, be discharged from school if one causes so much difficulty in making the teaching work that the paths of the student and the class must be separated. That is what we used to call being kicked out of school, and that may well be necessary in some situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160320	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we go to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160348	First day of school it's probably a day we all remember: a day filled with butterflies in the stomach, singing, sunshine, birdsong. At least I remember mine clearly. It was the Endrup School in Fredensborg anno 1987. I held my parents' hands. I let go, and I ran over to my new comrades ready for the new one to come. I had been looking forward to it for a long time, and now the day has finally come, and that is the way it should be. Many years after my first day of school I experienced as a teacher at the same school, how important it is that the children starting are ready, and several years later I experienced it myself as a mother. It was the experience of having two completely different sons where one was ready early, while the other, born in December, needed a little more time to play and develop. Fortunately, children are different and therefore it does not make sense for all children, regardless of maturity and readiness, to start school in the year of their 6th birthday. As a teacher I have seen children who have been pushed into school too early, and therefore I was also happy that as a Councillor in Hillerød Municipality I helped to ensure that decision-making competence should lie with the parents. It helped my son, and that opportunity should be given to all parents. It should not lie with the municipalities. It is the parents who know their child best, and therefore it must also be the parents who decide whether the child should start school at 5, 6 or 7 years of age. The proportion of pupils who have delayed their school start-up has been steadily decreasing since the law was amended in 2009, from 13.4%. in 2009-10 to only 6.2%. in 2018-19, which is therefore disturbing. We know that a bad school start has consequences for the children. The legislation on school start-ups is, unfortunately, a class example of cashiers' thinking, which results in financial speculation and not the best possible school start-up for children. In New Citizens, we're going to reverse it. The kids are the parents'. They are the ones who know them best, and we know when they are ready to start school, and we will give parents the opportunity to give the children the best possible conditions for success, and this is by leaving the decision to start school with the parents and not with the municipality. Soon they will be standing there again: the little schoolchildren with butterflies in their stomachs, with mother and father in their hands, and together let us give them and the future little school starters the best conditions for success and for a very good start to school. That is why, of course, I would urge all parties in the Folketing to support this proposal. I have also heard all the speakers and the good intentions, and although this is not being adopted, I still have a hope and a presumption that some kind of solution can be created so that we can solve the problems that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160725	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160742	The debate is open. We give the floor first to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604160810	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for bringing up one of my absolute favourite topics here, namely PPR and the whole way to construct what our society must be able to do to catch children who need extra support. I believe that this is one of the most important things, and we must continue to refine the masks of our society's safety net in connection with it. I have an 80-20 rule, and it should be understood that when dealing with social policy there is 80%. of our areas that do very well, and then 20% do not. In fact, I would like to say on this proposal that somehow I think it lands in a place where what is the problem is not legislation; what is the problem is whether you do what you have to do according to the law in a way that we think meets some quality standard. In other words, I have the feeling that we are dealing with this motion for a resolution and that we are dealing with something in which the municipalities and the regions are obliged to deliver the things that need to be done on a long-term basis, and that is why we must be very careful. We have had the debate many times since I was in the social field, and the SF has also put forward proposals in the social field to protect young people. I am very much in favour of protection for young people, but what is only involved is that the municipalities are obliged to do so, and that means that they landed a little at the same time, because the problem was that a lot of people did not provide protection at a level that actually picked up the young people, and therefore identifying the problem that the SF is doing is, in my opinion, completely sharp and precise both with protection and, of course, with the fact that in some places there are problems in getting the help that is needed, early enough so that people get into such a very long process, where they do not actually get the support and help that is needed. So the identification of the problem seems to me to be a sharp one, but I do not think we solve the problem that some municipalities in Denmark do not do the job in different areas by repeating the legislation we already have with them, i.e. by re-adoption, if that is the case. That's why I think we should just be careful to move down this trail. Having said that, I have been sitting with SF's pool rapporteur and Radicale's pool rapporteur, that was Mrs Lotte Rod at the time, and with Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, who is now Minister too, and spending a great deal of effort on the PPR project that we had carried out, that is to say, as part of the negotiations in connection with that year's stake pool. This is because we believe that, in relation to the interdisciplinary nature of the PPR, the silo thinking, that is to say, in relation to providing a child who may need something in the treatment psychiatrist, and who may need a lighter course of treatment during periods, but heavier courses of treatment in other periods, and who need a different type of psychological and educational counselling during third periods or the whole mix together, there are silos for sluggishness, both in municipalities and states, and therefore we do not best to support what is going on. In addition, a great deal of criticism of the PPR is about the fact that, for some, they have moved too far away from the reality in which they actually operate. I know that the municipalities are very concerned about trying to create good PPR models, and that is why we made a pool of 122 million in connection with that pool agreement. kr., where we among others. also opened up the possibility to provide easier treatment in PPR, and the whole idea of that is actually to be able to tie the different things together in PPR. I very much believe that this is the way we should go, that we should therefore have found the models that work, and therefore, because we got these things through, I would not also be prepared, because of what I said earlier, to make legislation on it now, simply because we are going to make legislation on top of legislation. If I just have to make a single impact point on that, I would say that one is obliged as a municipality to respond within 24 hours after a notification has been made. It's legislation. But when you look at the statistics on notifications, it is the case that just over 40%. in cases where there have been several repeated serious notifications on a child, the municipality has done nothing. Should we then change the legislation, or is there something that goes wrong in relation to how the municipalities react? The legislation is actually fine, but it is certainly not right that there is such a large proportion of people who see that some adults have actually approached the municipality with serious problems, without there being a relevant response. So the reality is, in my opinion, that I do not think it is time for legislation in this area, but I certainly think there is good reason for always persistent and all the way through to look at how we can support that the safety net gets closer, including how to organise PPR better in those municipalities where it doesn't work so well. Then we will keep our hands away from the places where it works very well, because it also works in quite a number of municipalities, and where PPR is used as an anchor point in order to get an early effort and a sustained follow-up effort for the children. But thank you so much for taking this up. I think I might just note that I have looked at the funding proposal and I would like to reveal that I am extremely excited about how the various parties are dealing with this proposal, not only because it is interesting on the PPR part, but simply because it is an interesting funding proposal that lies. Now I am looking around the Chamber a little, but it is just to say that I think the funding is incredibly sensible. It is actually the other way around, namely that we usually stand up here and say that the resolution may be fine, but since no funding has been found, we cannot do anything, but here I want to say that it is good in terms of funding, but the content of the proposal I do not think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161418	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161422	SF is a financially responsible party, which is why we also have sensible sources of funding on all our proposals. But we are also a pragmatic party, and that means that if there are other parties in the Parliamentary Chamber who really think this is a sensible proposal, but who would like to find other funding, then they are welcome and we will be responsive. But thank you for the praise in relation to the funding. This proposal, which is of course a motion for a resolution, I agree that this is not a final bill for me and for the SF most of all to give children, if they sit at home with their heads in their hands, with thundering anxiety or school movement, and it is awful, the right not to be subjected to all sorts of investigations, which should not be made all sorts of action plans, and they should not talk to all kinds of people before they get help. I fully agree that this is good legislation in relation to notifications. I also agree with the view that there is a maximum. must go 24 hours. The problem in this particular case in my optics is not the notifications; the teachers inform, and the teachers crazy want help, but they experience that nothing is happening. That is why the proposal is to give children the right not only to give treatment but to give treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161533	Well, the municipalities are actually obliged to provide children who have special needs, the help and support they need. That's why I think we should be incredibly careful... a little like what I said in relation to the defense thing. In view of the fact that some municipalities do not live up to what some people do very well and do not respond to the information that is relevant and do not meet their obligation to provide support and assistance on the basis of the particular needs of a child with, for example, anxiety or school migration, it does not help to create a new legislation that is the same. And that is simply because there are some other tools that have to be used in some way. That is why we have done the great PPR project together with each other. If it has not been legislation that was necessarily the major problem, but it is some other mechanisms that come into force, then we have chosen to go that way in relation to the fact that we did exactly that project with each other. And I really think we owe it to the project, the idea and the work that lie there that we get it flying in reality too, before we start on this I do not know whether we should ever start on this at all. In any case, I think we owe it to us to go further along the road we have stabbed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161645	But the primary school legislation says: in the event that children are in a particularly difficult situation requiring special education or special offers of one kind or another, they can receive it urgently. It does not say that you should receive it, but it says that you can receive it urgently, and that is the problem. That is why we want it changed to be. If the Minister thinks that the rules are already such a different place in the legislation, why not just bring the primary school legislation into line?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161716-2	In relation to the duty to respond within 24 hours and the provisions that exist for what needs to be complied with in the service legislation, I think that is actually clear. I mean, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know if you're gonna have to go through the paragraphs, but I think that we have a pretty airtight system if you follow the things that lie in the legislation, for example. the information provided. What is the challenge is exactly what Jacob Mark himself mentions, namely that a great many teachers inform and experience having done it repeatedly, and nothing happens; we know that is in more than 40%. of cases. I believe that this is a human disaster and I believe that it is there that we must take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161801	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We move on to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604161822	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for raising an extremely important debate. If we are to know how good our society is, how secure our society is, how inclusive our society is, then one of the things we can look at is how good we are at providing all children and young people with security and support when they need it. There were many philosophical answers to what it is that a society needs to be measured on, but there is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party will always be concerned about how to treat those who have the most difficulty and how to treat children and young people, because that is where we are best sure that everyone, no matter what life they are born into, and what background they have, will have the best chance of getting by in life. So it is extremely important when a child or a young person needs support that the support then is there. That is why we are not going to discuss whether we should give that support. Nor will we be discussing whether it is good enough as it is today when both the Minister and Mr. Jacob Mark can point out that there are plenty of cases with children and young people. Although there are many cases where things are going well, there are also too many cases where things are not going well. So there is no reason to discuss this, because that is what we have to say and say: what can we do to do better? If we in the Social Democratic Party are insecure to take the lead, as the SF suggests here, by grabbing the toolbox according to legislation, then it is of the opinion that the municipalities are actually obliged to help if there is a need for help and if urgent help is needed, then we also need to help urgently, even if we are not done with the whole investigation. The municipality has, so to speak, the responsibility for doing what is necessary. And if that doesn't happen, can you solve it by saying it again, or can you solve it by breaking down some of the silos as the PPR project that we have together helped to get written into the bet pool points out? Can it be solved by guiding or making a best practice and ensuring that some of the municipalities that do not solve it well enough today may get skewed to some of the municipalities that have broken the code? Well, what kind of tool is it that's the most effective? Of course, we would really like to discuss without prejudice what tools are in the box we need to get hold of. I was sitting in a completely different context a while ago at a school where some of the pupils they bring in have been out of the school system for several years. It is quite crazy that one accepts at all that school migration can lead to their failure to attend school for several years. It goes without saying that this means that the problem will be greater than it would have had to be if one had intervened in the past. That is why we are prepared to discuss both the gains, but also the human need to do this better. But that was also the reason why one of the places we took hold of the bet pool was to say: How can we break down the silos? How can we get easier treatment into the PPR framework? We still have to see how well this works. Now it is actually just on the stairs compared to really getting started, but that doesn't change the fact that it may well be that it may also be elsewhere in the PPR system. It may well be that we need to have a dialogue with the municipalities about where it is that the film breaks, and we would very much like to discuss that. But if you agree that it is because the present task is not being done well enough in terms of what we actually think the municipalities should deliver, then you do not get it by trampling in the ground and saying: you still have to do it. Then you get it by trying to identify a little more nuanced where it is, the movie breaks. We would, of course, like to discuss this with the SF, but also with the other parties in committee and subsequently, because we actually believe that it would be a sin not to hold on to the fact that the children and young people who need help should, of course, have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162307	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162311	Thank you. I mean, just to anticipate that other rapporteurs should take it up here with PPR: I think it's really good that you have a general talk about PPR, and it's a good deal that's made around PPR, but this proposal is not about a general discussion about PPR and how it works, although it can also have an impact on the task solution. It is a matter of giving children a right that if they have an acute anxiety or a school move, they need urgent help. And we have suggested this to be the case with the PPR, but if anyone has an idea of where else it might be, then we are, in fact, Greek Catholic in that respect. I just want it to be the best part. Then the rapporteur says, and the Minister also said a little, that the Social Democrats actually see this as being already in the legislation, and then I'm just gonna be happy, because it's gonna cost you to make it here for free. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur will be prepared to check whether this is already the law, because that is not my impression; that is not what I have been told. But if it's already the law, it costs free to change it, and then it's just good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162416	First of all, I actually think it's nice to discuss this in relation to PPR. I think we should be careful about making more boxes. I think it is a good thing that we are trying to bring so many of the decisions together in the bodies, the safeguards that are around children and young people. So there is no reason to create parallel systems. When we are sceptical about whether to change the legislation, is it really more because: is the problem being solved by changing the legislation, or is it somewhere else that the shoe prints? Well, I know Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark well enough to know that the important thing for Mr. Jacob Mark is not, after all, to put something else in the legislation if the problem still exists out there. After all, it is the children and the young people who lie Mr. Jacob Mark is concerned, and of course also the Social Democracy, and that is why it is the discussion, that is to say, whether we are really going to achieve the goal or whether we are not going to achieve the goal, and whether we are simply telling ourselves and each other that we have made a solution without really having solved the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162529	Well our assessment is also that it will be best with PPR; that is also why we propose it. It is just to say that it is not the entire reorganisation or organisation of the PPR that is important. It is the right of each child to receive help. And what I'm just trying to reflect on is that if the Social Democratic Party thinks it's already in the law that you need urgent help if you're acutely worried there's no cow on the ice by making sure that primary school law is also the same. Well, if it's already in the Service Act, I guess it's just transferring it to the primary school law. And I do not ask the rapporteur to be able to explain what I am simply asking for an indication of whether it will be examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162606	Well, of course, we would like to find out what the legislative practice is, i.e. what the current status is. What is important, of course, is that the municipalities have been given a task which is about helping the children and young people in the way they need to be helped. And there will be extremely many different assessments of this, and there will be extremely many different practices for it in the municipalities, but this does not deprive the municipalities of the obligation to help the children and young people they have. That this does not happen in all too many cases in the real world, we agree with the SF, and that is why we want to improve the system, regardless of the discussion about legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162655	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604162702	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution by the SF on Pedagogical Psychological Counselling, in daily PPR. The proposers propose to change the legislation so that municipalities are obliged to offer emergency free help from the PPR to children and young people who need it. The authors imagine that a maximum period of one to two weeks may be allowed before a child or a young person is treated. Children and young people are our future. They are the foundation of our society, which is why the well-being of children and young people is high on the agenda of the Left. This applies especially to children and young people's mental health and health, which are incredibly crucial to their life course. In the worst case scenario, a child and youth in disarray can end up both economically and socially with an adult life outside the community. And, as you know, the Left has the highest priority that everyone is part of the community. Therefore, as a well-being rapporteur, I am both worried and saddened to see that more and more children are going into disarray and that some are directly developing anxiety and depression. I visited with another committee a psychiatric ward in the autumn, and the young people I met on the trip are still sitting away in me, for example. the young girl, who was completely well-functioning and came from a nuclear family, but where things suddenly fall apart overnight and she ends up in a psychiatric ward. Suddenly, the goal for her is not to be with friends and possibly girlfriends and have family time. Suddenly, the goal for her is just to get from the closed psychiatric ward to the open psychiatric ward. I also remember the boy Kevin, who had the courage to stand on TV and tell about being lonely in a world as it looks today, where we see that the young people are very social, at least on social media. We know that loneliness can end up in depression, anxiety and ultimately school migration. There is no doubt on the part of the Left that it is in child and youth that we must take action. If we don't act until they reach adulthood, we'll act too late. The Left is therefore very concerned about the potential of the PPR cooperation, which often has a large and important interface with children and young people as well as their families, but also with the professionals involved across devices and sectors. PPR is present throughout the country and there is a great variety in PPR's tasks and organisation across the country. The Left, together with the pool parties in the context of the Health Rate Pool Agreement for 2019-2022, has therefore made a significant investment of 120 million. kr. to strengthen PPR. In the course of the wage-pool negotiations, the parties agreed to allocate funds for the first professional work on the specific treatment offer in the PPR, including a mapping of knowledge and practice today. In the light of the professional work, a framework is provided for implementing the recommendations. The target group for the work is children and young people who are generally in disarray and at risk of developing a mental disorder. The Rate Pool Parties also agree that in the long term the goal is that all the municipalities of the country should have a PPR that offers an easier treatment of high quality. At the same time, the aim is to support the PPR to contribute to the timely delivery of efforts for children and young people in disarray at the right time, place and level. For the Left, it is essential that we strengthen the PPR. This is among other things. important to find out what is the right time to wait for treatment. After all, we hear terrible examples of children waiting for as long as a year, and that is not fair. This is among other things. the aim of the work under the Rate Pool Agreement is to clarify. We need to figure out how to do this the best we can. And that's the Left's point of view on this. It can therefore be said that the motion for a resolution is perhaps anticipating the work that we have already kept each other up to and on which there is an agreement. We in the Left will keep the government up to work to strengthen the PPR, as we have agreed in the wagering pool negotiations. We have received a reply from the Minister on 19 May 2020 that the follow-up to the working group's professional work on the finalisation of the material for the issue of the pool has been delayed. Corona or not, this is further back, and we have also asked about it in consultation before we even had something called corona in Denmark. We are not satisfied that this agreement has not yet been implemented, but we look forward to the government getting to work. With these words, we in the Left believe that a joint report would be a good way to land it, because then we will be determined with seven-inch nails that that agreement on a strengthened PPR will have to be delivered. It is an agreement that we in the Left are certainly proud and happy that we made at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163213	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163217	Thanks for a good speech. I think I will boil my question down to what is really at the heart of this proposal. Should schoolchildren in Denmark who have acute anxiety and school migration be entitled to immediate assistance • yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163241	Of course they do. That is also why we say that we welcome the agreement here on strengthened PPR. Because it is not fair to see children who end up with school migration because they have waited for what looks like a year to get the help they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163258	That really was a nice clear answer, because today the legislation is such that they can get help and not that they need help. So I would just like to say that if we are going to work out the way in which we are making a committee report, we would very much like to have written in that the goal is that no matter where it ends with which agreements it is to make a right for children that, if they have acute anxiety and school migration, they also need urgent help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163326	Yeah, I totally agree with you on that. They must have a right to do so. And you can talk can or should. In other words, it also states in the pool agreement that the professional work must be described, develop a more systematic transfer of knowledge, take account of the different assumptions, size and organisation of the municipalities, and this must be a realistic implementation. There are, in fact, some good examples in this wagering pool agreement, and these are also the ones we are really dealing with, because it is a right that children should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163359	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163412	Thank you for the floor. We take a very positive view of this proposal because we think the content is extremely important. My colleagues in the social field have been the banners of getting this movement pool going. It is a question of making PPR more efficient and ensuring that they can provide the help that children sometimes need. And it's important that that help is provided, and that's why we're very much looking forward to this bet pool project being implemented. We think this is very, very important. But that is also why we are not going to vote in favour of this because we believe it is going to make a trip wire for the movement pool project itself, which has started. However, this is an important area and we agree that something needs to be done and that it needs to be done better, and that is why we have full sympathy for it, and that is such a more technical thing, I would say that we will not vote in favour of it. That is why, like the previous rapporteur, I would like to say that it would probably be a good idea to draw up a report in this area, because there are so many people who have spoken very positively about the content of the subject matter, but the very process of voting through a resolution of this kind is probably not the right one. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163554	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163558	I would like to thank you for that and I can also tell you now that this proposal will not be put to the vote. It ends with a report because I think it seems that the parties are prepared to come up with a solution. But I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is the position of the Danish People's Party that children who have acute anxiety and school migration should also be entitled to emergency assistance. That is what is at the heart of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163627	Children need help. There's no doubt about that. But you always have to be careful when you start talking rights. Should the child then have a right if it thinks it should have a course, while the mother and father or teachers do not mean it etc.? So there is no doubt that children who need help need help need help. But in relation to whether it is the child himself who has to define it or whether it is the parents or teachers, one should probably be a little more careful in his wording so that it does not become a strange right that one suddenly assigns to a minor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163704	I am very much in agreement with that, and the legislation is quite clear today. In other words, there has to be an assessment that this is a problem. The problem is that legislation is not as clear when it comes to how to solve the problem. An assessment needs to be made, but emergency assistance can be provided. I would just like to recommend that we make a joint statement on the need for urgent aid when there is agreement that there are problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163730	Well, there is no doubt about that; of course, emergency help must be provided, just as an ambulance must be provided when needed. I do not think there should be any discussion about that. The question is whether you can do it, whether you are able to do it and whether you have the right organisation and setup, and that's what this bet pool process will hopefully clarify and make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163758	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604163812	Thank you. I liked the expression an ambulance, because of course children and young people who need help to deal with their fears, for example, need that help, and they need it quickly. So the Radical Left supports this proposal, among other things. because we are convinced that early action will pay off. It's too expensive to wait to help. We have a great deal of evidence for this, and, above all, it is absolutely inhuman to wait to help, just as it would be inhuman to wait to send the ambulance, even if it were cheaper, and very rarely will it be. Then I would say that we see great differences, including too great differences, between municipalities. We see some places with very long waiting times in the PPR, and it must not be your residence that determines whether you can get the help you need to deal with your anxiety. That is why I would like to say that, in relation to that, other parties, among others. Social democracy, has said that the rules are as they should be, today, it is clear to me that everything is not as it should be today. That is why we also want to debate it here and welcome the proposal to tighten up the rules, which makes it a right and makes it clear that it is not a duty, but a duty when it comes to helping. Then I just have to say at the end that, unlike the Minister, we do not entirely agree with the funding, but we are certainly willing to find some money for this. We had also set aside 220 million for ourselves. kr. on our own financial law game last year to strengthen the PPR, so we also have ideas on how to find the money, and we think we should take that in the negotiations that might come and that we would like to have. Otherwise, of course, we are also prepared to look at how we can make a report on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164007	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164024	Thank you. This is a very good proposal that the SF has put forward here. It is very important that there should be an even stronger focus • The previous rapporteur speakers have testified to the fact that there is a focus, but there must be an even stronger focus on how we help children who are in serious disarray, children who are struggling with anxiety or depression and who, for many, do not get the help they need and, in some cases, do not get it quickly enough. As with the previous proposal we discussed, it can also be seen here that there are major municipal differences in how this is handled, and in the study referred to in the SF's comments on the proposal one can see that the organisation of the PPR is very different from municipality to municipality, and I think that it may not in itself be a problem. I do not think we should say that this can only be done in one way. It is placed under different administrations and different committees, but when you go in and look at the time course, when a process is being initiated, it is deeply, deeply worrying that there is such a big difference. I believe that this is a third of the municipalities where there is a waiting period of between 3 and 6 months, in some places even up to 1 year, and that is a completely hopeless situation when we have children and young people who are in serious misfortune. So what do we do about it? In other words, I think it is a proper thinking, which lies in the SF's proposal, that we create a legislative commitment. I think it is a good thing that it is formulated in such a way that the government wants to call for a debate on it. I think there has been a lot of response to the SF's proposals, and there is no need to make this any simpler than it is. So in this way I think it is sensible, because I think it is right that there should be a legislative obligation. I have looked at the wordings in the legislation today, to which reference is also made. In the Decree on special education and educational assistance, there is a sketch of what the course should be if a child is to be referred to, and there is the funny thing in paragraph 5, which is referred to, according to the fact that if a student is in a particularly difficult situation requiring immediate action, the school can set up. This is certainly a strange contrast, and I think we should have clarified what the Minister also referred to in relation to social legislation. It is rather strange to say that, in a particularly difficult situation requiring immediate action, the municipality may be able to intervene. So, there I agree with some of the direction proposed by the SF, that is to say that there is a change in a 'can' clause to a'must' clause in the notice. This seems to be a really sensible solution. In any case, there is an obvious discrepancy, I think, between the determination of the need and the demand for action, as outlined. Thank you so much for making the proposal. I think it is very good that we should have the discussion. It is not certain that we can just pull up the right solution in a moment, but Enhedslisten is fully involved in the thinking that the good will and hopes that the municipalities will do better, best practice etc., which I will not throw away, because that may also make sense, are not enough. I don't think that's enough. I think it is important that we look at legislative obligations. So there's support from here. I understand, sir. Jacob Mark, that we should not raise our hands, I almost said, press the buttons, stand up, we are currently doing so, but we are going to take a look at a story so that we can land it here in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164450	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Klausen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164510	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for raising a very serious issue. I am really glad that we have this in the Chamber. There is no doubt that it is a major and serious problem when more and more children and young people are affected by anxiety, and there is no doubt that we, as a society, have to react and look at why we see the enormous increase. And we must help the children and their families as best we can. Because when children are affected by anxiety, it is not only the young person who is affected, but the whole family is suffering from it. They are both parents and siblings. We fully agree that families must be helped as soon as possible. Early effort is therefore also helping here. I and the Conservative People's Party would very much like to share this message with all the municipalities in the country, but we do not want to decide how the municipalities should help. In Denmark, we have municipal autonomy, and the more laws we adopt in the Folketing, which impose on the municipalities how to act, the more we also deprive the municipalities of their real autonomy, thus minimising them into administrative offices without economics for everything they have been imposed on them. The task is already in the municipalities. It is up to the municipalities to give priority to how they will help families affected by anxiety. And seriously, I don't understand why it doesn't have more focus and priority in the municipalities. Because the longer it takes before the treatment takes place, the greater the problem, and it will only be more expensive for the municipalities to do nothing. Because I also recognise that there are some municipalities, perhaps even many municipalities, which do not give priority to that responsibility, which I think they should do. Many municipalities downgrade more or less conscious areas in favour of other cases that they consider more important. Therefore, we also see a Danish map, which stands and blinks red in relation to the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen. The problem is that if we give the municipalities another commitment, I already see the number of appeals increasing even more, and that is not what we want. There will be municipal elections in a year and a half, and I would like to urge everyone that this issue should be filled in the municipal election campaign. I'm in the municipal council of Herlev myself. I'd be happy to take it up. When I was reading the proposal, I thought that this should be one of the issues I am raising, because I think it is really important. It is we politicians in the municipalities who must give priority to how we should help, not only in terms of anxiety, but generally in the field of disability and in social matters, because we have many challenges there. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of this. So we agree that something needs to be done in this area and preferably soon. We just can't send the bill to the municipalities without a bag of money coming with it. Now Mr. Jacob Mark himself says that it may cost nothing at all, because it is already in the Service Act that the municipalities have to do something about it. You have to see if there's any money for it. But it is certainly the municipalities that must give priority to the money being spent on this too. I think that together we should also send a signal to them that we expect them to do the same. Wherever we want to deal with the problem of helping the families of the distressed children, we cannot support the proposal because it is the responsibility of the municipalities, and we would also like to tell them that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164839	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164840	The thing about local government is always exciting. It's a classic at Christiansborg, and it has to be. I also believe that there should be municipal freedom, but I believe that there are some things that are so important that we need quality standards here, as well. Speaking of Mrs. Marie Krarup's comparison with an ambulance who cannot move out of a door because he or she is afraid of death, would it be a question of municipal autonomy if he or she were to have help, but would it be a question of self-government if he or she were at home with a broken leg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164931	This is a very good question and I think it is a problem that the municipalities do not take it seriously in this way. Now we have decided that it is the municipalities that are carrying out this task, and then they must take it seriously and they must take responsibility. And then you have to give it priority. The municipalities must give priority to what happened to a broken leg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604164959-2	My point is that there are some things so important that this is not a local space in my book. This is not a matter of discussing it at a municipal council meeting. I have also been in a municipal council council meeting. And I believe that young people sitting at home with acute anxiety just need help. Why, then, will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party not help to set the quality standard, the guarantee for children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165031-2	Well, I hope you want to go to the municipalities too, and I don't understand why you don't. We have to go to school, it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to do so. It's kind of in line with that. But again, according to the Service Act, the municipalities have a duty to intervene and help. Well, maybe this is just trying to explain it further. It already says they're gonna help these kids, so I expect them to. When they do not then, I think that from in here we must see what we can do with the municipalities that are not doing what they are supposed to do under the Service Act. It is a huge problem and it is a huge problem in many areas, not only in the area of anxiety, but also in many other areas. That is why we have such a Danish map, which stands and blinks red. I think that is very serious, and I think that is something we should look at. But how are we gonna do that? Should we drag some obligations down on the municipalities? I do not think so, but I think it is quite clear that we should talk about what we can do about it, because that is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165129	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165148	This is a very good debate that the SF is taking up. I have also experienced myself how it can sometimes take incredibly long time and that there was incredibly long waiting time for help from the PPR. It does seem to me to be a bit colliding. I fully agree that children must be helped, and I also have a great deal of faith that if you have any specific challenges, there are some professionals out in the individual schools who know exactly whether it is PPR or whether it may be something else you have to put in place. For school migration can be due to a great many different things • just to take a concrete example, which is also mentioned here. It's not necessarily PPR that has to go over. It can easily be some ACT or something quite third that you need to get over. It can also just be the good present class teacher who comes out and meets the child in the morning and follows it into the class. So there can be a lot of different things. So that we sit in here at Christiansborg and dictate that everyone should have the right to urgent help from the PPR, I'm not very fond of. I would really like to go in and look at it, because I know that in many municipalities it is a problem that you have this very long waiting time, but I still want to say that this is not something we solve by making this a right, that is to say that you have the right to urgent help from the PPR. So that's really what I'm gonna say. That is why we do not support this motion for a resolution because we do not entirely agree that if there are some children who have a specific and urgent need for help, then they need help, because they need it. But I don't think we're professionals in here, so we have to dictate that it's exactly PPR that has to go over these different things. I have every confidence that you will find out in the individual schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165353	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165356	Thank you. It's just to understand the New Citizen's position in such a precise way. Is New Citizens in favour of having the right to help, but where New Citizens' problem then is that the proposal states that it is exactly PPR, or is New Citizens not at all for them to have the right to help, and, like the Conservatives, believes that it is a local matter how and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165422	I think I have a slightly different attitude to it than Conservatives. However, as I have also said earlier today, I also see a great many municipalities, where a whole lot of tasks are being carried out that are not at all close to nuclear welfare, and then there are such areas as this which are lagging enormously. I do not think that we should sit here and dictate that we should have a right to pedagogical psychological advice. I believe and have full confidence that schools, day care institutions, etc. find out what the right solutions are for the children they have, and it can also be anything but PPR. So I am certainly not against having the right help, but that we should dictate that there should be the right to urgent help from the PPR, I do not think is the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165508	That is also why I am fishing for a little, if you could help in New Citizens to look at the right to emergency aid. I mean, if it's PPR you get into, we're gonna have to work on it. My impression is also that, in the vast majority of cases, day care institutions and schools carry out the tasks they have out there, but that they are not always heard, that is, that they experience a long time before something happens to the children they report. So will New Citizens be involved in working out a trail where you just guarantee the right to emergency help if you need urgent help, no matter where it is that we find out it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165543	I would rather say that we will always contribute to making agreements, so we are fighting against cash thinking, because that is what is happening. We are very much in favour of decentralization, we are very much in favour of putting responsibility to schools and to the individual institutions, and not interfering from in here as much as is currently being done, thereby also freeing up a lot of time and space to make the right solutions for the children who are out there. We should not dictate in here from Christiansborg that there should be a right to something particular, because we cannot sit and say that it should be the right to PPR or the right to ACT, or what it should be they should do in schools. But I am always ready to fight against cash thinking and for the municipalities to solve the core welfare tasks and not everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165627	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604165640	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark and I both have a five-year anniversary as members of parliament, and in all five years we have been active in education policy. And we have had this discussion very, very many times over the five years that have passed, so I think it is now also well known to Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, that I am quite sceptical about both overdiagnostics and self-diagnostics. Of course, I am very reassured to hear Mr. Jacob Mark says that children and their parents should not have the right to publicly funded treatment of self-diagnosed suffering, because if you allow treatment of self-diagnosed suffering, you have undoubtedly allowed to knock the bottom out of the treasury. Diseases must be diagnosed by a professionally qualified doorkeeper in quotation marks which in principle are both permitted to declare people sick who think they are healthy and declare people healthy even if they think they are ill. That is what doctors and corresponding staff groups are for. But we also need to be careful about overdiagnosing, and this is something that the Children's and Youth's Psychiatry has warned about many times, and where I miss a sensitivity with SF in relation to the issue of overdiagnosing. It is also characteristic that you want to overdiagnost high school students who were stressed, and I think this falls into the pattern of lack of attention to overdiagnosing. And why is it that we should not overdiagnostic? Well, we should not, of course, because resources are not endless, neither human resources nor financial resources. And what the Children's and Youth's Psychiatry says when they warn against overdiagnosis is that if we are too quick to declare people sick when they feel the slightest discomfort, or call a life crisis a disease, then there are seriously sick people who do not get the attention they need. Diagnosis of mild conditions simply steals the attention and help of heavy cases. It is, of course, incredibly sympathetic that you should help properly diagnosed children and young people quickly, and we would like to be involved in this properly diagnosed. But with the form of the proposal, which does not take account of the issue of over-diagnostics at all and does not even look at whether this growth in the number of cases could be due to over-diagnostication, which is something the professional companies warn against, it will therefore be a little difficult to support it. So I almost wish that SF would merge a similar proposal along with some considerations about overdiagnostics, so that one could get started looking at it and so that we could help the properly diagnosed ones. So in the form in which the proposal lies here, where overdiagnostication has not been taken into account at all, that overdiagnostication could exist at all, just as an option we therefore find it very difficult to back it up. And, of course, the funding is quite unacceptable for a party like my own. But it's this lack of focus on over-diagnostics that's the decisive thing for me. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170016	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170019	I got to thinking about the movie "The only one" where she says, "7 years," Niels. And that's where I'd like to say, 5 years, Henrik. But I must not use direct charges here, so I just want to say that it took five years and then I think we finally reached a compromise. And the compromise that I could see after hearing the rapporteur's speech is that we write that properly diagnosed children must have the right to emergency assistance. And then it's not my job to judge when you're properly registered. It's people out locally who actually know what kind of people are. Could it be a road?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170053-2	Maybe I'll think more about Groundhog Day. It's this movie where everything keeps repeating itself. Anyway, that's how you can think of different movies. Well, that sounds like a sensible proposal, because I think, of course, that the care that Mr. Jacob Mark and his party have in relation to helping properly diagnosed people, is right, and I agree with that. But we must also have the debate on overdiagnosis, because that is something the professional companies are warning about, and it takes resources from those who are seriously ill. So the compromise that is being outlined here, I think we can work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170138	The questioner apostates. Okay, thank you. There are no more brief comments. We shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170203	In the SF, we will no longer accept or see that children with school migration and with anxiety, whether it is death anxiety, panic anxiety or other forms of anxiety that make it impossible to show up at school, are simply left in the lurch and sit at home with some parents who are often perplexed and unhappy about the situation. In the SF we will no longer accept that the number of children who have anxiety just goes up. Over the last 10 years, the number of cases of anxiety in Denmark has tripled among children. It's very unhappy. A child who sits at home and can't walk out of his front door because he or she, for example. have anguish of death, do not need long studies, do not need action plans without action, do not need bad excuses or sea explanations that the economy is not equal to helping, or do not need explanations about municipalities that do not take their responsibilities seriously. Just as children sitting at home with a broken leg can be picked up by an ambulance and have the right to receive help, children sitting at home with anxiety and school migration must have the right to emergency assistance. It's the simple and simple thing that's in this proposal. The proposal is that where it is today a 'can' clause so that you can give them help in the particularly difficult situations described in the legislation where you can now give them help, then the municipalities must give them help. The teachers want it, the educators want it, the school leaders want it, because there is nothing worse as a professional than to experience that you inform, but that nothing happens. You hear from the parents that the child doesn't get the help the child needs. That is why this proposal is important. I would like to thank you for the debate. I would like to thank the government and the Social Democrat rapporteur for taking this issue seriously and for, I hear, also wanting to go into work to find out how we will ensure that children do not sit at home. The government has a view that the legislation may already be such that children need that help, and that would be happy, because then the proposal here does not cost money. This is not how I read primary school legislation, but if there is another legislation that is so, then you can impact primary school legislation and send the bell-clear signal to the municipalities. So I can't wait to have that checked out. But thank you for your positive reception. Thank you to the Left for a very good speech and for taking the problem seriously. I fully agree that children are the foundation of society, but I have also thought that we often talk so much about children as their own foundation or as some who are going to conquer the whole world, that we sometimes leave them a little in the lurch and that they feel that they have the whole world on their shoulders. And it must not always be easy to be your own foundation. So, although I am absolutely convinced that the rapporteur is right that children are the ones who are going to create society, one of the points in this is also that when they cannot be that foundation, we must be it for them. Thank you to DF for the openness to the proposal and for the comparison with the ambulance that would come running. I thought that was a clever comparison. Thank you to Enhedslisten and Radicals for their support. Thank you to the Conservatives for being very concerned about this problem, as it is when children are left behind, and thanks to the rapporteur for wanting to take it up in his own town council and have it changed in Herlev. Then all we need is all the other municipalities where the problem is not dealt with. Thank you for also keeping the tab high for municipal autonomy. Few do. In this case, I do not think there should be local self-government. There I think children need the help they need. Thanks to New Citizens for their openness. I hope that, in the committee process, we can be absolutely clear on how we can ensure that children receive the help that I also hear the party's rapporteur say they want to protect the children. And thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl for five years of discussions and for the prospect that we might finally be able to come up with a compromise that will help those children who need help. I look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170703	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170709	The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604170746	The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on the transparency of public consultation. The motion for a resolution obliges public authorities to publish the consultancy reports which they order and includes state, regional and local authorities. It will certainly come as no surprise to anyone in this Chamber that public consultation is an area of great concern to this government. Let me therefore start by saying that the government has sympathy for the proposal and that the Danish People's Party with the proposal focuses on the amount of money that the public spends annually on consultants. The government has a clear ambition to spend fewer tax dollars on external consultants and instead of giving priority to the money for welfare and a serious green transition. We have already delivered that, and we intend to continue to do so. With the 2020 Finance Act, the government with the parties with which we have agreed the Finance Act has agreed savings on the consultancy consumption in the state for over 850 million. kr. Fully phased in annually. In addition, with the recent economic agreement with the municipalities and regions, the government has agreed savings of 1.1 billion a year. kr. together, when they are fully phased in, which means that this government, within one year of its lifetime, has delivered 2 billion. kr. annual. At the same time, the government agrees with the intention of the Danish People's Party with the motion for a resolution, namely more openness in the consultant reports ordered by the public authorities. However, in its present form, the resolution will oblige all public authorities to publish all consultant reports and therefore also requires new legislation. We do not see that as the way forward. The Danish People's Party justifies the motion for a resolution by saying that it would be simple to administer and would not entail extra costs for the public authorities. We do not think the world is that good. A legal requirement for all consultancy reports commissioned by the State, municipalities and regions to be published would mean that resources would have to be used to make the individual report available and time would have to be devoted to reviewing each report in order to assess whether there is information to be exempted under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. These may include information on operating or business relationships, confidential information and the like. Finally, and most importantly, the government sees the risk that the publication of all consultant reports can create insecurity in the public and among employees. You can, for example. Imagine a consultant's report proposing an organizational change to a specific board of 500 employees or reports commissioned to provide an enlightened political basis for decision-making, depicting paths that are subsequently politically chosen not to enter. Both examples could create insecurity and insecurity among employees and the population if such reports were published only per year. automatic. In addition, it is important to make it clear that there is already wide scope for access to consultancy reports ordered by the public authorities. It is therefore clear that consultant reports cannot be withheld as internal documents by public authorities. Having said that, the government agrees that it is a healthy principle that public authorities are concerned about whether the consultant reports can be published and, if they can be published, they should be made public. The Government has therefore also sent a number of common guidelines for the use of external consultants in the state to all ministries, and these have also been sent to the parties of the Folketing. The guidelines specifically call for all state authorities to make more public consultant reports which are considered to be of a non-profit nature. Such publication will contribute to greater transparency in the use of consultants by the State authorities, and that is a good thing. The government thus shares the ambition of more openness about the public consultancy consumption, and I would therefore also like to send a similar call to the National Association of Municipalities and to Danske Regions, in order that municipalities and regions also publish consultative reports of a non-profit nature as far as possible. However, the government still believes that the way forward is not more far-reaching regulation in this area, where we make legal demands that all consultant reports commissioned by public authorities should be published; moreover, it will also be a step towards detailed regulation, which we from Christiansborg will, if necessary, impose on all public authorities. And the government cannot support the motion for a resolution that lies here, but we share the intention. And I think it might actually be a good idea for us to try together here in the Danish Parliament, even when we are discussing this in committee, to see whether we cannot make a report that takes into account how we create the most public possible, while also taking into account the issues that we must also bear in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171310	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171314	Thank you, and thank the Minister for Finance for his speech. I have such a relative approach, and I also have a common intention to limit the use of consultants. One of the thoughts in this is that if it is public, what is being made of reports, what they cost, what they should do good for, then it might also be that you thought a little more about before you did it. I had a thought during the Minister's speech when it was said that so much has been done and so much has been done in the consumption of consultants. How far have we actually reached? I thought I heard it was 2 billion. kr. a year. Are we really near them? Now I know that a deal has just been made with KL. It is not until next year that something should actually come out of it, but now it has been a year with the government at the helm, so how far has the government got in the area of savings on consultants?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171416	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171417	Yes, what we have adopted in the context of the 2020 Financial Law Agreement is, after all, in full swinging into action in the ministries. It has been written out to each ministry and each board about what to find there of savings in relation to external consultants. Then it's like that, too, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl in all fairness also brings in himself that the agreement we have made with the municipalities that they will find 500 million next year. kr. In the case of consultants, it should increase in the years up to 1 billion. kr. kr. We've signed up a week ago. So we can barely ask them to find the money yet. However, this shows that the government takes it very seriously, that there must of course be the possibility of using external consultants, but that we can also reduce that consumption both in the state, in the municipalities and in the regions, and that instead we can spend the money on welfare and the green transition and other important things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171528	Well, that's an answer, too, but it was a little unconcrete, I thought. Now I could also turn to the Finance Minister's own ministry: how much has been found on consultants? In addition, I would like to hear from you in relation to our proposal whether there could actually be an opportunity to work in a report that takes into account the intention and actually makes some reasonable demands. I agree that there may be areas where it is more difficult and where there may be confidentiality, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171609	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171610	As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we must contribute on a completely equal footing with all other ministries. There is no special advantage for the ministry for which I am responsible. I don't want that either. We are very aware of what we use by consultants, and I would actually propose to send if Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has already received it, the list that for each ministry shows how much to cut down on the consumption of consultants. Then I think it would be sensible for a report to be drawn up in committee in which we jointly try to see how we can create the greatest possible publicity, while also taking into account the things that we need to be aware of in relation to privacy, in relation to the other things I have raised in the speech I made a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171706	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171708	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. What I would like to try to ask a few questions about are some of the figures that the government is juggling around with too. Because if you choose to say that you are saving, let's just say 700 million. kr. for external consultants, but instead choose to hire them yourself, for example. in the Ministry or in a municipality, and spends the same amount of money on it, then they don't have the money for e.g. the green transition, as the Minister says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171749	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171750	Yes, it is clear that if you spend exactly the same money on hiring people in a municipality that you spend on external consultants, then you do not get any more money out of it. However, we do believe from the government that by setting priorities, and this applies both in the state and in the municipalities and regions, we can reduce the consumption of external consultants and thus also say that there are some tasks that you then choose not to solve with reports and other things from external consultants or for that matter by the municipality's own employees, because you would rather spend the money on something else. The second could, for example, be better care and care for our elderly, it could be investment in relation to our children and young people, it could be socially vulnerable, and it could also be the green agenda. I hope that the Left does not have the view that there can be no savings in relation to what is being done by reports in the public sector. That would surprise me, and the government is at least completely determined and determined that we can do better than we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171859	Thank you. I can assure the Finance Minister that this is the way we think in the Left too. Where I also think it might be important in terms of transparency, for example. a municipality that then instead chooses just to transfer the money to some of their own employees. Is it not also true that when the municipality makes up its economy, it actually counts as the municipalities' service costs, and that in that way it cannot really be said that it is being used for classical welfare tasks, but that it nevertheless counts with, and that it thus somehow becomes a little hidden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171936	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604171942	What we have agreed with the National Association of Municipalities a few days ago is that from next year we will need 500 million. kr. less on external consultants in the municipalities, rising to 1 billion. kr. less when fully phased. This is a huge opportunity for the municipalities to give priority to the money for something that is more important than consultancy reports, for example. care and care for our elderly, better schooling for our children and a green transition. So I think that makes incredibly good sense, and I was very happy that we could agree with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172023	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172026	Thank you. I am listening to the fact that the proposal also brings with it such a product declaration item that I would really like to be a little exciting to work with. I have seen a great many consultants' reports in my life, and I think the Minister has, and I also think that many hopeful consultants and their good ideas might not have come to fruition if it had been tested at an earlier stage or perhaps subsequently. So I wonder whether the idea, regardless of the fact that it must of course be qualified and also heard in different contexts, could also qualify the way in which consultants offer tasks, i.e. if you know that the work you do is actually also looked at in the seams, regardless of whether it is employees who have to be saved in connection with a reorganisation or whether it is GPS that you want to equip cars with, that is to say that some people know something about the matter that is actually being allowed to look at it in the seams as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172130	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172131	Basically, the government's starting point is that the vast majority of reports should be available, both in relation to the state, the municipalities and the regions. This can also be seen in more detail, and if a consultant has delivered a bad job, it is then public display, and I think that is quite fair. Then it is true, as Mrs Kirsten Normann says, that we have both seen many, many reports in our time. I remember when we worked together in other relationships, namely when Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen was chairman of the FOA in Aarhus and I was mayor in the same place, and I think we can think of some reports that were commissioned in the best sense, but where the money could have been spent better, and that is exactly what the government is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172231	That's exactly the point. In fact, I am thinking that the idea of trying to think in product declarations at some level could be exciting to continue working on, which is why I would also like to suggest that we might try to continue working on it in the form of a report or other. Perhaps I also heard the Minister confirm that actually makes good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172253	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172254	Yes, as I said, I would also like to say to the proposer, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, that we look positively at creating as much openness as possible and that you can also look through the work, and I also see the intention that it also makes you think twice before ordering an external consultant's report. The government thinks that's wise. We should just bear in mind that there are also some considerations that we need to take in relation to those that are being made about the reports and other things that apply, which means that we cannot just say that all reports should be published immediately. But a trade declaration it can have many forms of an approach that we constantly learn when we think it is necessary to use consultant reports and what quality they should have, I think is an exciting discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172358	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Finance. We are moving on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172413	Thank you for that, President. I feel quite sure that one of the factors that has been most important to the fact that, as a country, we are currently winning the battle against the Corona is about trust and socialism. As Danes, we have strong confidence that the authorities are doing their very best to combat the corona and do not benefit, for example, powerful cabals that are seen in other countries. We are confident that our neighbour will rip off his hands and keep his distance, and that is why we also want to show our own social spirit and do the same. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of Danes, despite politicians and others, in a crisis that we are in now, are also confident that we at Christiansborg are able to put aside party disputes and work together and stand together to resolve the Corona crisis. When I start my speech by spending some time on the Corona crisis, when the proposal we are dealing with is really about consultants, it is because the confidence that I am talking about here, which is so crucial, has not come out of the blue. The trust, which is important for many conditions in Denmark, stems from among other things. from the openness that we have in the public administration in Denmark. We trust each other and the public administration and the public authorities, among other things. because, as a public, we have a good opportunity to keep track of what is going on in public administration. That is why it is also a very important debate that we have today, which is the result of the Danish People's Party's proposals, and the Social Democratic Party supports, as the Minister also mentioned, therefore, the intention of more openness contained in the proposal. Transparency and transparency are essential values in the public administration, both for trust in the authorities, but also because openness can help to ensure that officials or politicians are not tempted to buy unnecessary consultancy services because, as a result of transparency, they must subsequently be accountable for and stand up to the objectives of their decisions on procurement. In addition, the Social Democratic Party has a clear ambition and this is also reflected in this year's Finance Act and also in next year's economic agreements with municipalities and regions about their finances and spending less money on consultants. In this respect too, openness is an advantage. If, however, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal as it stands, it is about the fact that it is already the case that all government authorities are invited to publish consultative reports of a non-profit nature. We also support, as the Minister said, the idea that, following on from the debate we have had here today, and possibly following on from a report, it may be a good idea for all the authorities to have as much openness as possible. Furthermore, the Social Democratic Party believes that we should be careful, in general terms, not to regulate local and regional authorities from Christiansborg, as this proposal, which we are discussing, does to a certain extent. I believe that, rather than of course, we can call for this, but basically it is the local and regional authorities who also bear the responsibility for the openness of the administration and thus also the openness of the procurement of consultant reports. Finally, as the Minister for Finance also pointed out, I believe that it is against the proposal that, with too uncritical publication of consultant reports delivered to the public, we risk publishing reports which outline, for example, major organisational changes affecting the working life of many public employees before decisions are taken. We are simply in danger of creating unjustified fears among public servants or others if we publish something that outlines a solution that is not politically determined or politically blue-stamped. We must also be aware of this. That would simply not be appropriate. So the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal as it stands, but I look forward to a discussion of the proposal in committee. I think it is a proposal which contains some interesting debates and which has a sensible intention of more openness. I hope that we will be able to arrive at a broad report which will take a step towards achieving even more openness in public administration and even more openness in terms of what reports are being purchased and what they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172829	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172833	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think that the rapporteur is onto something important when it comes to trust. That is precisely the core of this for us to see, because many reports are being made in one context or another, which are almost used as an excuse for making decisions. And there is not necessarily much transparency, and there may not necessarily be the great declaration of how qualified this report is. But it's being used as an excuse. That is why I really want to hear whether I can get a commitment on this, and I hope that I can get it out of this, that we can talk about how we can ensure that reports are in a way qualified and declared. I fully agree that if it is a matter of reorganisation, the report cannot be published until on the other side of that part. But it could still be central to those involved in such cases... it could be a city council that has to decide on something... that you could actually look into the reports and be sure that it was qualified and declared how they were made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604172937	Thank you for your comments. I think sir... Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is right that there can be examples of "not under social democratic government" that publicly commissioned consultant reports have been commissioned and prepared to provide an alibi for decisions that have been decided to implement anyway. That is, of course, inappropriate. After all, this is an example of a piece of consultancy work paid out of public funds which should not have been carried out, which does not make any real difference and which does not bring any real value. There I agree with the author of the question, if that is what the questioner is referring to... that increased openness might cause authorities to think twice before ordering the kind of reports that should not be ordered. That is why I think that the debate, the report, if it can contribute to more openness, could be sensible. It is also because it can, of course, contribute to the overall spending of less money on consultants and thus have more money to spend on welfare, which benefits real people's real lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173045	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173047	I am quite sure that this could never happen under the leadership of the Socialist Group. I myself was a consultant in the City of Aarhus under the direction of the Finance Minister when he was mayor there, and there was nothing wrong with the reports either. Of course there wasn't. But I mean everywhere else where it might now be possible there was. Could we, however, agree that we are working on a report on this which actually sets a framework for it so that we can move forward? Because I think we are all interested in the fact that the reports that should not have been made are not being produced and that those that are being made are not being abused. So we could actually work on how to create a framework that is good and sensible and that ensures that the reports that then become
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173125	I think it is a sensible ambition to have for the work of the committee and for the report that we are doing what we can to create more openness, both in terms of the quality of the work being done by consultants, but also in terms of the fact that work that is not strictly necessary is not being carried out so that we can spend the money wiserly. So I look forward to a committee reading in which I see that the rapporteur for the proposers and the Social Democrats, as far as intention is concerned, is not so far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173153	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173202	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate in the Chamber today. I can begin by saying that we in the Left are in fact in favour of the proposal. In fact, we think that it is also important, in the context of the proposal we are discussing here today, which is that we are also making use of citizens' tax money to typically provide different types of consultancy services, that we should discuss it and hopefully also come to a decision on how we can do it even better. In the Left, we recognise the challenges that exist in terms of also following current practice when consulting reports can also be anonymous. That is why I think, as has also been suggested in the resolution itself, that we should continue to work on how we might be able to ensure a higher quality and, for that matter, ensure that when we spend as many tax dollars on consultancy reports as we do, they go to something sensible. Personally, I am convinced that citizens must be able to trust that what they do in the public sector is something that can be trusted, and it is also essential for our welfare societies that this trust is present on the part of the citizens. Having said that, we in the Left also believe that there may be circumstances where it may be necessary for the municipalities, for the regions, and for that matter also for the state to act in confidence, and some sort of room must also be given for that. On some of what has been said by previous rapporteurs, I sense that there are some who are prepared to work on a report, and I can say here in conclusion that, if that is what the proposers prefer, we would like to work in that direction, but in the event that the Danish People's Party wants the proposal to be put to the vote, we are actually prepared to vote in favour of the proposal. In short, I believe that this is a good resolution. There are some things, and we can then discuss this in committee, in relation to the economic aspect, which I would like to see bored out a little, in other words how the things that have been written in the motion for a resolution have been arrived at. And, of course, there are other things that we will be looking at, and I think that the proposers themselves have a desire to do so. This is how we prevent it from becoming too administratively cumbersome, in other words, in terms of ensuring transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173446	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173457	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution. In the Radical Left, we are, of course, keen supporters of openness in the decision-making processes of both the state, the regions and the municipalities. Citizens must have access to reports and analyses, both those made by the authorities themselves and those made by external consultants. And I can hear that there are a great many people in the Chamber today who have both consultancy experience and local experience, so we know that, fortunately, the citizens also have very much access to it today. Analyzes and reports are often available as public annexes in the thousands of cases dealt with annually by elected representatives of the Danish Parliament in the regions and municipalities, except where there is sensitive information involved or in connection with e.g. invitations to tender must not be leaked with information that may compromise conditions of competition and such. As a starting point, citizens can already follow the progress of the battle in the municipal council, in the regional council and in the parliament, and when a report has been made, it is also clear who has delivered the report and who has ordered it. However, there is of course nothing to prevent us from checking on the state of transparency out there and reminding each other at all stages of the decision-making that we have a continuous task of ensuring transparency in the administration. But let us dive into the motion for a resolution for a moment, because there is something going on here. A number of consultancy tasks are mentioned, which could be quickly written off as typical academic pseudowork. And I wonder if we all have examples of external consultants' reports... we can hear that too... that were either superfluous or too bad. But the basic premise here is that consultancy work is unnecessary, and I would very much like to challenge that position. Because in the municipalities and regions, consultancy costs cover a great many different types of services, and the entire field as academic pseudowork shows little knowledge. So here are some more examples of what external consultancy services include. They are collected from a handful of very real municipalities on Zealand. For example: It is recorded as consultancy work when an educational institution is bought into continuing training municipal managers, because they must, in other words, be trained. The Folketing itself has imposed this on them in connection with the quality reform and the municipal reform. That is, for example, the case. also a consultative task to interpret and to assess the working environment. Legal assistance for particularly heavy children's cases, medical and dental assistance for socially vulnerable citizens, work done by surveyors, special-class supervision, geological studies in connection with facilities, the supervision of settlements, maintenance and development of IT systems, ergotherapy for home training and mentoring in special schools are also only examples of external consultancy services in the municipalities. Why is that? This is because a great many municipalities do not have the volume to be able to hire their own employees for the many specialized tasks that they will eventually have to solve. And the challenge here is precisely that they charge these services as purchased consultancy tasks, and when we make a move on it in here from the Folketing, it looks as if they get a lot of external consultancy work done. In the Radical Left, we would very much like to help reduce bureaucracy and waste time in the public sector. We would very much like to discuss public use of external consultants on an enlightened and nuanced basis. However, no, we will not be involved in imposing additional unnecessary administrative tasks on the public sector. In fact, we believe that the implementation of this proposal will be an example of the type of administrative work that we are all trying to put to good use, especially in view of the fact that the openness that is being called for already exists to a great extent. That being said, we are very much willing to look at whether we can write in a report an indication that we here in the Danish Parliament will work together to ensure that this is done and that it is better in both regions and municipalities and in the state. So that's all from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173904	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604173907	Thanks for the speech. I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that there is a great deal of consultancy work that is necessary, and I also believe that with the agreement that has just been made with the municipalities and the regions, there can well be challenges out there, in terms of how to solve the tasks which, for a large part, need to be solved, whether it is permanent employees or consultants who solve the tasks. That is not what we are talking about here at all. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether the Radical Left will be involved in working on how to ensure better clarification. Because I do not think that reports are always declared well enough, in terms of who ordered them, what they cost, who made them, whether qualified people make them, and something like that. Often it's consultants who actually just stand as a sender on it. So can we work to ensure that it is at least declared, so it is easier and clearer? It should not be something that cost money, because if you have it in the agreement, when you order a report, what should be of information, it should just be written in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174012	We are not ready to go down to the level of detail that the Danish People's Party wants in this resolution, because we simply believe that it will draw too much administrative costs out in the municipalities. If a consultant agency provides a report, they will also be able to respond at any time to who made the report and what its background is, if necessary. So we are not prepared to make this type of very detailed declaration, but we would really like to help make a report contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174041	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174042	So the rapporteur does not think it would be fair to say that if a report is made, it must also be described in it, who has made it, what it has cost and who has ordered it. This is not something I think of in any way should be bureaucratic. You make deals about all the things in the world and write everything into it. Of course, we also agree on a price and agree on time and so on. If you just got that information in, would it be too much to make a relationship with red tape in the opinion of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174115	Information about both price and orderer and sender, that is overall as a company, is already available today, and we think that is good enough. The fact that we also have to get in and get hold of a CV of a consultant employed in a company simply has a level of detail where we think it draws too much administrative costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174133	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then we turn to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174146	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for making an interesting suggestion, I think. Up to the parliamentary elections in 2019 I was actually quite enthusiastic that incredibly many people support the Danish social model. A lot of people are even prepared to get a little extra tax if you can guarantee that the money will be used to take care of our children, our elderly, our sick and take care of all the other important welfare tasks. But we cannot just take that support for granted. A really important condition is that citizens also have confidence that we manage tax dollars in a sensible way. If they lose that confidence, then we also lose the excellent support for the welfare society. In the SF, we are quite aware of this context and we also trust that citizens will strongly support decisions when we are open about the basis of decisions. That is why we also believe that the law on public administration is a crucially important law, and I might add that this should also apply to anyone performing tasks on behalf of the public sector. Similarly, we also believe that external consultant reports should be available to the public as a starting point and, with very few exceptions, this is probably the case today. However, the proposal here goes further and means that transparency must also include information on prices and names of the respective authors and their professional backgrounds, etc. That particular proposal actually reminds me of a long-standing IT manager in a region. He was very tired of the fact that soon any problem had to be resolved with the help of private consultants. He had noted in particular that prayer for a new cooperation was often that the consultants did not know so much about the area, but, moreover, looked forward to the cooperation and to becoming wiser. In fact, I think there are a lot of municipal employees who recognize that it could well be the prayer of entry. In this coronatid, I might say in parentheses that I have sometimes wanted various experts to be declared. That doesn't mean we're saying that consulting reports can't make sense. Sometimes benefits can actually help to qualify decisions, and they can also contribute to better practice or to a good study. However, the number of consultant reports has also been increasing for a long time, and there have rightly been discussions about their eligibility. Because can the citizens of Denmark be sure that the money will be spent in the right way? That is why we also believe in the SF that it is important that everyone can help control the use of consultancy services, and that is why we also welcome the proposal from the Danish People's Party. As I have said, there may be cases where confidentiality is needed, but it is relevant for particular political decision-making processes that reports are published so that you can follow what considerations and priorities are behind a given proposal. However, the proposal tabled here by the Danish People's Party is not entirely ready. For example: I think it would make very good sense to try to ask some of the experts who are working on this particular area. I would like to put forward such a proposal as this in consultation with, for example, Mr President. Justitia or Djøf, so that other relevant considerations could also be included in the discussion of the proposal. With those comments, I would like to say that we are in favour of the proposal and, in fact, I hope that the proposers will be involved in trying to work on a report in committee where we can make the proposal a little more and perhaps also become more precise about what will actually be possible in practice and how more openness can be created on consultant reports in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174549	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604174602	Thank you for this proposal from the Danish People's Party. It is a proposal that we are positive about in that way that we think it is an important agenda that is being raised here, in terms of how public authorities use external consultants in different ways. Before I move on to some of the other things, I would like to say that I think we should do a story about this, where we dive a little into the substance. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... differences in how to use external consultants in the state and in the regions and in the municipalities. When we talk consultants in the municipalities, these may be things that are very close to the operation or the citizen-friendly welfare. It may be the use of psychologists or other experts who have to do with providing citizens' close welfare, while some of the reports that we sometimes encounter in the work in here, such as I. As rapporteur in various areas, I have to say that it is terribly poor. It's probably been expensive. These are subservient reports, which are clearly political ordering work, and if you are to read how things really are, you have to go all the way on page 187 to understand how things really are. 'Cause it says what might be right. But if there has been a political desire for it to be something else that should actually be the conclusion, then that is what is highlighted in the introduction. I think we've all seen that. I also think we are all really tired of seeing some of the reports that have helped to form the basis for destroying our tax administration, i.e. how expensively paid consultants come with their expensive advice on how to destroy the public sector in the best possible way. It has been history, that is, how we have seen the destruction of our tax administration from the mid-00's onwards. It is, of course, ultimately the result of disastrous political decisions, but it has to be said that the consultancy agencies that have been involved have certainly not been helpful. So I think there is a great deal of reason to look at how we can reduce the cost of this. I think we should also discuss what the opportunities are, also about the public about these reports, which are what the proposal is about. On the whole, I think it would be appropriate to ask some of the actors who work for more openness and openness, also in relation to the discussion on the Public Access Act. It is of course Djøf or Justitia, but it may also be the Danish Journalist Federation or others who may also have an interest in getting an insight into these proposals. For this is really about a general discussion about the Public Service Act, because if we had a proper public law, then there would also be a better opportunity to gain insight into these reports as part of a general and well-functioning public law, and not the public law we have today, where there has been much more secrecy in recent years. That is what I really want to say. I think this is an important agenda. A lot of money is being spent on this. Now it has been agreed that we should save on the consultants, and that is good. We must, of course, follow that it will be real savings on consultants and that it will not end up being such a smokescreen for some general cuts that we on the Enhedslisten are opposed to. But when you look at some of the information we have received in the Committee on Finance over time, you can see that if you count both municipalities and regions and state together, then historically some 10-11 billion have been spent. kr. a year. Something's IT, something's legal assistance. These are different things we're talking about. If you look at just the most recent figures we have received from the Ministry of Finance, which is actually also very interesting we got over the 19 May, i.e. the statement about the state's consumption of consultants, you can actually see that from 2018-2019 there has been a small overall increase in the use of external consultants and legal assistance. It is, in particular, the legal aid that pulls it up. It may also raise a discussion about that we may not be able to reach in a report like this if you have so little internal capacity in some places that every time you have to do something, you have to have back cover, and then you call the DA, who then bills. Sometimes it's expensive to have to use the externals all the time. Is there an idea to build a higher level of internal capacity which will both provide a greater professional ballast but which can also mean that we can simply save some money? That is also a discussion. We may be able to deal with this in connection with a report here, but it is part of the relevant considerations that should be considered. On the other hand, the consumption of what is characterized as management consultants is, fortunately, decreasing. So we can be delighted about that. That sounds like the ones we'd like to save the most on, if I may say so. But we really like the proposal, but we think we should make a report which outlines a little, what the possibilities are here and what the tools are and how we can get on with this. Because we agree that this is an important agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175058	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175105	Thank you. As a starting point, we support the intentions of the B 136. However, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution because there are a number of things in it that are going the other way. I would also like to say that consultants have now become a little hated here at the moment. There has been such a theorem with: fewer consultants, more welfare. It is not my experience that this is always the case. In the municipal system I have been involved in using consultants up to several times, where it has proved to be a good investment and where you have received returns on it in relation to the municipal operation, which could then be used for welfare. So it has to be nuanced. That is why it is a good thing that the Danish People's Party has tabled the motion for a resolution, so that we have this discussion, and I would like to add a great deal to what the Minister of Finance has said: that we have a joint report, so that we have a track for what is happening here, that we have a view of it and that we get it narrowly into something that is useful, even in practical terms. Already we know that the government and KL have agreed to have to find something on consultants. In the municipal agreement, 1 billion will have to be found in the period up to 2025. kr. So in the municipalities, you've started. It can also be said that the proposal here would, of course, interfere with local self-government. We Conservatives are aware that municipal self-government is important, and we must safeguard that, because it is under constant attack, at least here from Christiansborg. We can say that access to documents in this area and the law on public administration solve many of these issues. Others have also mentioned this. And then you can get very, very worried about that, at least for the increased administration of this if it is implemented, as described in the motion for a resolution. One might ask: What system should it run for, and what should it be reported in? And then you could say, what will be the cost of keeping an eye on these reports? I think it will be very high if it is the case that we are following this presentation in the motion for a resolution. In terms of transparency, it will not be a problem for the report to be published after the proceedings and the reasons for the report. On the other hand, it would be a huge problem if we started to publish before the proceedings have been completed. It would cause a lot of problems, for example. is the organization you're working on. Then there will be a rapid start to the interest groups and so on. And it will destroy the process. We also know now that the government, in its Finance Act, has also set up to collect money from consultants. I think the state could pick up even more if you tighten up a little, and we can hope so in the next Finance Act. But as a starting point, we agree with the Danish People's Party that you have to use the tax dollars as best you can, and that you have to have as good consultant reports as you can possibly get close to. But we are also of the opinion that consultants' reports in many, many areas are necessary in order to get that expertise in, and especially in municipalities we see many of them. We believe that this is good for organisations, it is good for the way in which you have your administration running. It has been used everywhere in Denmark, and it will also be used in the future. We support the intention in B 136, but we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. But we are in favour of having a joint report on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175602	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175606	That's just a brief comment. The rapporteur criticises the proposal for undermining municipal autonomy and for being very bureaucratic, heavy and so on, but as I read it, it is all about saying that it has to be declared in a report, who has made it, so that you can check whether it is qualified people who have made it. I actually hear the rapporteur say that, when the reports are good, it is when they are made qualified and actually give some extra knowledge to some kind of decision or whatever the result is to be used for. So will Conservatives not perhaps help in the report to work on ensuring that the reports that we order and spend a great deal of public money on producing are more clearly declared and qualified?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175658	We would like to help make a clearer statement. We just need to be aware that once the reports are published, they can be accessed today. This means that some people can shoot it down, and some people can say that it is bad work. I do not know how many municipalities or the state spend money on bad reports or bad consultants. It may well be that some people are doing it, and if it is the case that there is a lot of it, then I think we should include it in our joint report. I'd like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175739	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175802	In new citizens, we are very much in favour of openness and transparency, and this, of course, also applies to consultant reports. So we basically think that this proposal looks really positive. Some of what I cannot really read from the resolution could, for example, be read. be about reports where there are some security things that make it perhaps not appropriate for them to be published. That is why I am actually thinking that, in order to be absolutely sure that there will be no such risks, we will be very positive about producing a report in which we will unfold this. And we also need to make sure that this is openness both on the consultant reports that are submitted to Parliament. I have not seen so many of them yet and on those who are out in both municipalities and regions, because we owe it to the citizens that they can also keep up with what is often the basis for some of the political decisions that are taken. We are certainly positive. We just want to be sure that there is not a lot of things where it would not be very appropriate to adopt what it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175916	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604175925	Thank you for the floor and thank you to DF for creating the framework for discussing an important topic. I have a slightly ambivalent relationship with the proposal, and that is because before I was elected to the Folketing, I myself was a consultant for more than 10 years. And that has given me a deep insight into how things are going in the consulting industry and in the interaction between state and municipalities. Sometimes it makes an incredibly good sense to order a consultant's report. It would be very expensive for any organisation to build strong professional environments in highly specialised areas such as: mathematical modelling is typically more advantageous to hire consultants to make mathematical models than to have experts sitting all year round. But then I think that Mr. Rune Lund actually made a very good speech, because there are also a lot of reports to protect management from responsibility. They are called something ugly in English, which I do not want to say, but the essence of the English term is that they protect the butt against blows. There are hot air projects that are not very different from Operation Morning Air, which the a little older of us remember from the Lars von Triers series of the Kingdom, and there are projects to support conclusions that have already been drawn. Many years ago, in the company in which I myself worked, I saw that the government at that time was not going to mention any names. I ordered a report from us to make a permanent connection over Kattegat prohibitive animals. And it is no art to make a fixed connection over Kattegat prohibitive animals, if one knows how, then the then government got the report which showed that it was prohibitively expensive to make a fixed connection over Kattegat. So consultants are a lot of things, and sometimes it's really sensible, and sometimes there's also some a little more obnoxious things at stake that I think this discussion is really good at getting a closer look at. I fully acknowledge the arguments put forward by the Minister for Finance that some confidentiality may be required. If everything were to be put out openly, it would, for example, be. also shows that I once said in a consultant's report that there are strong synergies between art and the business community there isn't, but in other words, it was something that was popular to think 20 years ago; so it can stay confidential. So a certain amount of confidentiality may be required, but at the same time there is a very great need for more transparency. And that is also what is in the Danish People's Party's proposal, and I fully acknowledge that. So there are more who have suggested that a report might be produced which reflects the debate we have had today and which results in the need for much greater transparency in the field of consultancy than there is today. If we could land it there, we would have a very positive attitude towards it. And I can tell you a lot more stories from the consulting industry than my speaking time allows. I just want to stop here and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604180304	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will round off with the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604180320	Thank you. Thank you for a good debate. I think there are many things coming out, and I absolutely agree that there are consultants of all kinds who are consultancy reports of both the good and the bad kind. And as Mr. Henrik Dahl has just told us about, then there are also reports that are written according to that they must deliver a certain result for a particular use. The challenge is, of course, how we distinguish between one and the other. The purpose of this, and I really hope that we will be able to come together afterwards, and I hear that a little bit too, is to say that there is a need for greater transparency. There is a need for a better explanation of what it really is, a report can, where it comes from, who ordered it, what the purpose of it is. At the same time, I also fully agree that there are, of course, a whole lot of reports to be used internally in some development work or change work in organisations which, of course, cannot be public from day one. Perhaps they can do so later, when they have been used, so that you can see what it really was that was the reason for it. At any rate, they could be so declared that those who sit and are involved in the decisions can use the reports and gain transparency in them and see them, so that we do not have too many reports commissioned by a finance minister to tell us that things are going like this. That, of course, is not the current Finance Minister, I would not say that, but there could be other cases. I heard the Socialist rapporteur say that all sorts of people other than the Socialists might think of something. That's how the world is so wonderful. But I really look forward to having the discussion in committee and dig into it a little bit, and then I really hope that we can come up with a joint report that has a broad scope so that we can make something happen in this area too. In fact, for us in the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that we push something and actually make something happen. So I would like to thank you very much for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604180527	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604180543	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604180602	I would like to start by signing for the Enhedslisten resolution, which aims to ensure that welfare costs should at least follow population development. In practice, the resolution means that the government must ensure that the growth of public consumption up to 2025 is at least consistent with demographic trends. As is well known to everyone in this Chamber, it is very important for this government that the money should keep up with demographic developments so that welfare is not undermined. That is why we already said before the elections that there was a need for a welfare law, and since then other parties have followed. Therefore, let me also start by saying that both I and the government have great sympathy for the proposal and that the Enhedslisten is re-emphasising that we must make sure that, over time, welfare is thinner and thinner. It lies in exactly the same path as the government's ambition to secure welfare with a welfare law, and until we have the law, we will act as if it had already entered into force. We have already delivered on and more to that, among other things. in cooperation with Enhedslisten. With the Finance Act and the Economic Agreements for 2020, we have set aside money to develop core welfare. This is reflected among other things. the priority is given to the recruitment of more staff in day-care institutions, more teachers in primary schools and more nurses in hospitals. We intend to continue to deliver in relation to that agenda. The Enhedslisten justifies the resolution by the fact that the government has postponed the submission of the welfare law due to the corona crisis and that Enhedslisten wants to ensure that the promises of the election campaign are fulfilled. We agree that they should, of course. In fact, I think that the government has reported quite clearly on the changes in the legislative programme. It is a question of postponing the legislative proposals, not of cancelling them. However, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the political priorities of the government, including the welfare law, are unchanged. In the coming years we will be among other things. more elderly people, and that is nice, but we must also face up to the fact that a bill follows when the population composition changes. For example, it will require that we prioritise more resources for our nursing homes and hospitals so that developments can follow suit. Today, the Danes have no assurance that changing governments will set aside enough money to ensure welfare when demography changes. On the other hand, by means of a welfare law, we will set a new direction to ensure that the economy as a whole follows demography. In this way, we will be able to ensure dignified care for the elderly, a health service with better time for patients and good day care facilities and schools for our children. This must be done while continuing to work towards ensuring well-run and efficient public jobs. We want to use every penny wisely and for the benefit of our citizens. The Corona crisis doesn't make it any easier. But that doesn't change the fact that when there are more older people and young people in the years to come, and we should be happy about that, we should take good care of the welfare, including for them. The government has just concluded economic agreements with municipalities and regions where we deliver in relation to the demographic trait and more, as we did last year. So let me just say in conclusion that the welfare law has been postponed, not cancelled, and the bill will be discussed in the next session. The government's legislative programme will also indicate when the treatment will take place. The goal that, fortunately, when there are more children and older people in the years to come, the money must keep up is completely unabated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181012	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister of Finance, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. And the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181028	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much to Enhedslisten for focusing on the quality of the economy of our public sector, a public sector which, in this very difficult time for our country, promises a very, very important task. Social democracy fully supports the fact that the public sector economy is following the so-called demographic move, or, more literally, when, fortunately, we are growing older and older, the money must also keep up. The economy must keep up with the need to improve the framework. The fact that the money will have to keep up in the years to come is absolutely crucial to the social democracy. That is what we went to the polls for, and that is what we have put politics into, among other things. together with the proposers of the Enhedslisten. That is why it can also be said that the fact that the public economy must follow the demographic trend is not only a political ambition, not only is it something we are talking about, but it has also actually been implemented. We went to the elections to raise public welfare and we delivered on it, both in the first Finance Act last year together with the parties behind the understanding paper and in the municipal and regional agreements for this year and for next year. Together with the parties behind the understanding paper, we have thus ensured a massive investment in more nurses, more teachers, more educators, and we have generally raised the economic conditions for the welfare of our municipalities and regions, thereby ensuring a better framework for the elderly, who in the end of life need strong public welfare so that they can live good and safe lives, even when life is such that they need help. These are achievements of which the Social Democratic Party is proud, and I hope that my speech will reflect that too. It is therefore also a political course which we intend to pursue. That is why we support the Enhedslisten proposal. And we look forward to adopting a welfare law in the autumn, which has exactly the same aim as the resolution we are debating here today. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181232	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181235	Thank you. Thank you very much for supporting this proposal. I think that is an important, important signal to be sent, and that is why we have put the proposal forward. And that is why I have to ask you about the postponement of the welfare law decided by the Socialists and the government. The Corona crisis has led to an economic crisis, as all Danes can see. A great deal of money has been sent from the Treasury to save businesses, big and small, to save people from losing their jobs, to help small self-employed and poor families with children. A lot of money has been spent, and I think there are a lot of people at home thinking: where is this money coming from now? How are they to be found? And is it now, like the last time, that the bill is being sent to my children in the day care centre or to my parents at the nursing home, or will it be the hospitals that have to hold? So can the rapporteur not understand if there is some insecurity among the general population and there is a need for extra calm?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181347	In any case, I would like to say that, as rapporteur and as a party, I would like to contribute to the absence of that uncertainty. I think we have also contributed to this in our communication in connection with the postponement. We have said very clearly that this is a postponement due to a very high political pressure on the part of the Corona and that it is a postponement and not a cancellation. So if there is any doubt out there, I see it as an appropriate task for me here today to say that there is no reason to have that uncertainty, which is also reflected in the policy followed. In other words, the welfare law has been postponed for six months, but the proposals we have adopted in the form of, for example, municipal and regional agreements reflect our ambition. We're covering the demographic move. There is no reason to have that uncertainty, and I am glad if the debate we have now means that we can have the last uncertainty, it might have been held out. It's important. Then I would also like to say, in relation to the crisis bill, that it is absolutely crucial for social democracy that we do not repeat any of the mistakes made during the financial crisis. If there is a bill, it must be lifted in solidarity; it must not be lifted by people on the edge of the labour market, as we have seen in previous crises.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181454	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181456	Thank you. I think that is a very important point to make. After all, it is quite the right words to come now, and that is why I and the rest of the Enhedslist were surprised when we were told that among all the laws that could be chosen to postpone the adoption of the welfare law it was the welfare law that went into the bend. Well, I don't know if we've dealt with it, but there's something about Air Force Skrydstrup • something we need to process there and there's something about television surveillance in the public space that needs to be speeded up before the summer break. This is, of course, as both the rapporteur himself and the Minister for Finance said before, the foundation of the government and the government's promises and the majority that has been elected in this way. Shouldn't you have chosen a little different when you prioritised?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181549	I would like to sign that Enhedslisten praises the Social Democracy for using the right words when we talk about welfare, but I also think that we need to praise the action that goes with it. Because it is not a question of words or political declarations; it is, of course, a question of delivering a welfare promise, together with the Enhedslisten, and we are pleased about that. So action follows from the words we put on today. I think that is really the most important thing. In view of the fact that we have had to postpone the welfare law, I must ask for an understanding that the government and the Folketing have been exceptionally busy making aid packages for up to 400 billion. kr., restart initiatives and a wide range of measures that enable us to handle the Corona crisis sensibly, and which also means that we are now in a good place in relation to the Corona crisis. And then we have to live with the fact that we have to take the welfare law on the other side of the summer holiday. Fortunately, this has not had any effect on the fact that during this period too we have given very, very high priority to welfare, for example with the economic agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181644	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181650	I should just like to ask what taxes the Social Democrats will raise in order to comply with the budget law if it turns out that there is no money to pursue the policy they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181700	Social democracy has no plans to raise taxes. I think it would be the wrong medicine to address the situation we have at the moment financially. What we need is to kick off the economy, and that is why we should not prescribe tax increases, but we should prescribe reboot packages; we must ensure that our export companies have the opportunity to borrow money on favourable terms so that they have liquidity to get through it. We are going to do a lot of things over the next few months, perhaps years, to ensure that we get the economy kicked off. That is what is on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181741	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181742	I'm sorry, but if you stand here and guarantee billions and you don't want to raise taxes at the same time, it's not related to the budget law. Then there's only one thing you can do, and that's going out and lending them. And is it the message of social democracy for the next generation out there that because you don't want to feed, you want to lend yourself to it? Well, what's the answer? Is this the admission of increased sovereign debt for the next 10 years? Otherwise, it is a matter of eating for nourishment, but now we are saying that we do not want to, and we do not want to raise taxes either. It doesn't add up. The money's gotta come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181816	We are fully ready to feed, we are fully ready to conduct and are the guarantor of a responsible economic policy. What we are doing in times of crisis is borrowing so that we can hold our hands under the economy. It is borrowings that we can make cheap because we have a good and healthy economy. However, when we come on the other side of the crisis, we do not need to finance our welfare, so we need to finance our welfare by having a healthy business environment. And the prerequisite for having a healthy business environment through a crisis is, of course, that you finance aid packages right now. I believe that a broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties agree with me on this. In any case, I note that the initiatives that have been made have been made very broadly in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181853	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181856	I just have a follow-up brief question here: do I understand correctly that during this entire parliamentary term until the next parliamentary elections, social democracy will not be able to raise a single tax, and can we also include taxes, that is to say, that it is not, like, covered by taxes? Are we lucky enough to be in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604181918	I think it is the Conservatives who are aware that we have a gigantic challenge with climate change. And precisely the crisis that we are facing, and the very high objective that the government has, with 70% reduction in our emissions, I think that will mean that we will have to stick to the fact that we have to have the opportunity to change taxes. That is why I do not think the time has come to throw cement over the area. I believe that we must maintain an open mind in relation to being able, also across the parties in the Folketing, to combat the climate challenges that we face. However, I can say very clearly that the Social Democrats have no plans to raise taxes, but changes I think are sensible, and that is probably one of the things that lies in the negotiations that will ensure that we can deal with the climate crisis that we are facing and ensure that Denmark makes its contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182016	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182017	Great, thanks for that. If we then just stick to the tax side, that is to say this promise of no tax increases at all: does this apply to the entire remainder of the parliamentary term in all tax areas of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182029	As I said, I think it makes sense for us to stick to the fact that we will have the opportunity to make changes in the area of taxation, because we are facing some very difficult challenges, for example in relation to climate change. I think it would be unreasonable to say that nothing can ever change. But I can just say very clearly that we have no plans for tax increases. What we need at the moment is to prioritize a reboot of the Danish economy, to make investments here and now, so that on the slightly longer track we have some healthy companies that pay taxes, so we can afford to prioritise the welfare that we agree with, for example, Enhedslisten that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182107	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182118	Thank you for that, and also thanks from the Left to the Enhedslisten for bringing this debate up. One can see in the motion for a resolution that it is a little like a consumer information debate as a follow-up to the parliamentary election campaign, but one must also say that the resolution does not necessarily cover so much. But we agree with the intention, namely to ensure that Danes are well-being and also to ensure that they are able to honour demographic developments and demographic trends. That is also why, in the election campaign last year, we made our welfare promise, on which we also gave priority in the draft Finance Act we presented. So basically, this is a discussion that will of course be topical, but now it will not be so topical, because the government has postponed the whole discussion about the welfare law. Then it comes in the autumn, you have to understand. What I find exciting to find out when this motion for a resolution is to be dealt with by committee is how and how the Enhedslisten imagines the financing of the whole economic development of the Danish society and also what it takes to deliver on welfare. There is no doubt that if it is the price previously prescribed by Enhedslisten in relation to the increase in taxes, and the charges must rise • then at least it is not something in which the Left can see itself. And we have just witnessed a financial law which has meant that taxes have been raised. Now we have been able to see in today's debate that it is, in fact, the most interesting so far that the Social Democratic Party has said that it is not going to raise taxes in this parliamentary term. I think that is too good to be true, because in the near future we will have to see proposals from the government, which will certainly contain elements where taxes are raised, but we will have to test that. We may not be able to test that in committee alone. But the Left supports the intention, and we therefore look forward to discussing this further during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182329	Then there are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182332	As the comments on the motion for a resolution show, the inspiration has been drawn from two places from the Socialists and the Left, and it is perhaps a little strange in itself when it is a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. But it is of course because the two parties actually said something very similar and exemplary wise, namely that it was important that the Danes were promised that welfare would not continue to be eroded, but that the money, the room for manoeuvre, should be given priority to welfare, so that the demographic trait would be covered. I remember both the Left and the Socialists promising this during the elections. And that's why I'm a little surprised that it's kind of a crappy approach to this thing. I thought it would be something the Left would be aiming for still away in spite of the economic crisis, but there were perhaps some exceptions to that welfare promise, which was small and which I did not get during the election campaign. Let me know the voters of the Left got it in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182438	I think Pernille Skipper gets everything. On the contrary, I think there is something wrong with the ears. Because I have just said that we support the intention. We stand by the vow of welfare we made. So you can be quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182450	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182451	So it is to be understood that the Left stands by the promise of prosperity, even when a motion for a resolution is to be voted on. So the Left supports the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182513	There I told Mrs Pernille Skipper that we were going to have a committee reading, and then we are looking at: how much does this proposal cost? For the Enhedslisten has unfortunately forgotten to fund this resolution. It's like it's just something you pull down from the air and then you say, yes, we'd like this. After all, there must be reasonableness, but after all, we have shown how we are going to finance our welfare vows. So if that is the welfare promise we made and the draft Finance Act that we presented as it is about, then I look forward to Enhedslisten voting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182533	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182536	Thank you. In fact, it was a bit of a follow-up, because there is a little doubt as to where the Left is on this issue. Does the Left's vow of prosperity, which was a cornerstone of the Left's election campaign, mean that one continues to hold on to the desire to cover the demographic trait? And if you do so and say that you can finance it, can you also vote in favour of the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten? Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182608	It must be understood as what I said before: that we stand by the promise we made in the election campaign a year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182614	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182615	But then we hope... [Audience Outlook]... stands by that money must keep up when there are more children and older people, and you can find funding for it. We can then vote in favour of a proposal here which obliges the current government to cover the demographic move.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182633-2	Yes, I can confirm that if that is the funding proposed by the Left, the Enhedslisten will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182640	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and this is Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182657	Thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. It is quite interesting to hear the discussion among the big parties about what you actually promised and what you really intend to live up to. For the Danish People's Party it is important and it has been for many years to ensure that there is the money needed to follow the demographic move, as a minimum. Because, of course, there must be the service that needs to be provided, and we also want to increase welfare. Right in the current situation, where I think that a lot of people in society will be really worried about how this will be possible, we can be sure that our elderly can be properly cared for, even in the coming years; can we be sure that the day institutions are there with the quality that they are now going to have; can we be sure in schools, etc. That is why I have to say that the Danish People's Party supports this proposal and looks forward to it being adopted, perhaps barely with the Left, but we will see when we get there. But thank you for the suggestion. DF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182811	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182824	Thank you. It is and it has been, as long as I can remember at all, a radical policy that every year the demographic move is financed by the Finance Laws. We have always had this as a policy and as a vision, and we always put forward budget proposals where it is least funded, and I would like to do so with other proposals that promote welfare, education, research and other things and ensure it, and we intend to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182905	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604182909	I did not quite see whether the Radical Left would support the proposal, but I can almost understand that. I have a comment to make, because it is not the case that the reality has been that the funding has been accompanied by demographic developments in recent years, and this was not just the case under the former Løkke Government. This was also the case in the crisis years when the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the partial SF were in government. There was also under-funded welfare, which led to deterioration as more older people came, but no more resources, and more children, but no more resources, etc. As I recall, there were also definite cuts for a few years. That is why I think it is an important signal to send out by the majority we now have, that yes, we are entering an economic crisis, but we, as a majority, intend to stand by our joint promises that the demographic move must be covered and prioritised, also entering an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183018-2	That remains our policy. We also want to ensure this, and this must be ensured in the annual financial law negotiations. We also want to prevent it happening again, that schools, children and education are not affordable. But that is a fiscal priority, and that is where it must be negotiated. This is absolutely the way we go to the financial law negotiations, which is why I do not necessarily think we should now see in committee that this really belongs to a resolution, because it is precisely in the funding that we have to show whether we are giving priority to this. That is what we are doing, and we are also going to do so in the forthcoming financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183102	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183104	After all, it is now a resolution which requires the government to secure it. But am I to understand that if the Radical Left does not vote in favour of the resolution, then we do not want to impose on the government to ensure it? Or should I understand that one is unsure that there will be money for welfare? Because I think that would be an extremely unfortunate signal to send out. Should I also understand that the Radical Left would not vote in favour of a welfare law such as that proposed by the Socialists? Because that is what is written in the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183140	The rapporteur must understand that it is the priorities of the Radical Left to ensure that there is a minimum amount of money to cover the demographic trait, and we will also be presenting a draft budget that does so. It may well be that in our draft budget there are proposals on how to finance to cover the demographic trait and ensure that research is not reduced, which are funding proposals that Enhedslisten would not agree with. That is why I think it would be a little different to vote in favour of something that does not actually reveal how we finance things. That's where I think the differences are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183222	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183231	Thank you. For SF, it is crucial that we keep our hands under welfare and let the money follow when the demographic changes. We cannot continue to demand that the people who form the cornerstone of our welfare society should constantly run faster and become more and more effective for less money. Of course, when there are more children and older people, the money must follow, so there is money for good day care and good care for the elderly. So thank you to Enhedslisten for putting forward this proposal, which follows up on the promises we made to each other and the voters in the election campaign last year. I think it is important that we keep up with what we promise, and it is equally important that we keep our hand under welfare. The understanding paper, which the government has concluded with us and the other supporting parties, says that a bottom must be established under welfare. I believe this is a strong starting point for a future welfare law, in which we ensure that the money follows when we grow older and older. In this way, we will create security for municipalities and regions, so that expenditure on important welfare tasks can be covered. Security must replace the annual fight as to whether the budgets are sufficient. It is my hope that in this way we can give warm hands a little calm, for it deserves both our children and the elderly, but also doctors, nurses, educators, sosus and all the other welfare heroes. In those words, I announce that the SF supports the proposal. Moreover, we are very pleased that the government today guarantees that the bill after the corona does not land with those who have the very least in our society or result in a deterioration in our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183416	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183435	Thank you, President. I will actually keep my speech quite brief, not least because the Enhedslisten in the comments has clearly directed the motion for a resolution against the Social Democrats and the Left's statements during the election campaign, where there was little competition in who could fire the most of the state's available room for manoeuvre. So at least we Conservatives believe that welfare should not just be made up of a figure that is locked to population growth; welfare must be measured in quality, and welfare must also be measured in security and security, and of course it must be adjusted as needed. So it doesn't make sense in our eyes to lock the welfare in the way that Enhedslisten has done here. Now I look forward to hearing Enhedslisten's questions. We are not voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183519	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183521	Thanks for the speech. It is always exemplary when some of us in here, and now I speak for myself, can deal with things briefly and accurately. It is very clear that we will not vote in favour of it. What puzzles me is this smear that welfare cannot be taken into account in figures. That's absolutely right, because what do you need a number for when you're sitting out at the nursing home and no sosu assistant comes in now and helps? What do you need a number for when you're a child in a day care institution that doesn't have time with an adult? It doesn't matter what the spreadsheets are. What is the point is that below this strange concept of a demographic trait and the figures that cover it, there are people of flesh and blood who have experienced for so many years that because more children are coming in the day care institution, there is only less time available because no more educators and more educational staff have been followed. The rapporteur must recognize this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183619	I recognise that welfare is very much more than just locking a figure to population growth, because it is also the quality of security, how well you take care of our elderly, how well you look after our children. That's why I think it's very simplified to say that now we're going to solve this by locking a number. If nothing else, it is enough primarily for, as Enhedslisten also writes in the comments, I would say not to tease, but to challenge the Left and Social Democracy in the statements they made in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183648	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183649	That is absolutely correct. That's it. But I can't quite stop asking that either. It is true that quality is essential. After all, it is absolutely crucial that the teaching staff are well trained and able to take care of our children and help them on their way in life, but the number of educators and the number of adults in the living room is crucial for the time you have to deliver that quality. I guess even Conservatives can't deny that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183722	But that is not what the motion for a resolution says. I do not believe that there is any mention of the number of educators and anything about quality, etc. It says that you have to lock this in relation to the demographic trait. We think that's just a simplistic way of doing things. We would very much like to go in and discuss quality and everything else, but this is a bit of a snapshot solution and all the welfare problems have been solved. It's not that simple, and I'm sure Enhedslisten knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183748	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604183754	It is one of the biggest illusions found in Danish politics that one puts a word like welfare up to defend that one has to drain the taxpayers' pockets out there and put more money into the treasury. Because the fact is, there shouldn't be welfare up there. There should be public spending. After all, public spending is the correct term; it will increase public spending year after year so that politicians in here at Christiansborg, politicians in the regions and politicians in the municipalities can continue their insane use of citizens' tax dollars. If only the money was spent on basic core welfare, we would have gone a long way. But you don't. You spend it on everything else. We have debated today in the past that the costs of external consultants are going through, so did they under the last government, and so are they under this one. Now we're almost up and round the 12 billion. kr. Then we spend 8-9 billion. kr. at some job centres that don't deliver. We have failed non-Western immigration, costing 33-35 billion. kr. a year. There is a lot of money that we spend in the public sector that we shouldn't at all and that nothing has to do with basic core welfare in schools, day care and kindergarten. So when you hear from, yes, in fact, broadly from the Left to the Social Democracy and to the Enhedslisten, that we have to follow the demographic move to secure money for the Treasury so that we can ensure basic core welfare, then it is a falsum. Because it is all about securing money to channel more of them to central government and management and everything else in the municipalities, regions and in the state, which does not bring benefits to the citizens out there. In New Citizens we would like to spend money on basic core welfare, but we absolutely cannot support the fact that it is per. automatics just need to increase the treasury with the demographic trait, so politicians have more money to play with never ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184026	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184037	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss a very important subject, namely how to take a position on quality. Do you do that by looking at the consumption of resources or by looking at the result? If it is decided that the quality of public welfare is defined by the consumption of resources, then it is clear that, for example, when the population gets there. growing or getting older, there is no way around greater resource consumption if quality is to be maintained. But it is just not generally true that price is equal to quality. The most expensive product is not necessarily the best. It's often just the most expensive. That is how it is in the private sector, and so it is in the public sector. A very good example of this is the schools. After all, it is very well documented that there is no correlation between what it costs to run school services in a municipality and how good the municipality's school services deliver. The only connection that one might be able to document is a slight tendency for municipalities with very high costs for schools to suffer from under-privatisation. Quality must, of course, be measured by the result. The best schools, universities, hospitals, etc. After all, it must be defined as the ones who deliver the best results, not the ones that cost the most money to drive. We are in favour of the public sector providing high quality services, but we do not believe that high quality is defined at high costs and therefore we cannot support the proposal here. Something else, then, is that what would happen if the cost level were locked to population development? Indeed, it would certainly happen that public organisations lost the motivation to improve their productivity and lost the motivation to improve their quality. There would not be innovation to the extent that otherwise there will be when costs are locked. So the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten is a proposal which guarantees professional and productivity stagnation in the public sector. And that is just another argument for what I have already revealed, namely that the proposal is not a good proposal and should therefore not be supported. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184310	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so now we are through the rapporteur series or we will have to round off with the rapporteur for the proposers when the rapporteur has finished a dance. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184328	I still haven't gotten quite used to the shit about keeping my distance to that extent. Thank you very much for the debate to all of you. I think it's important. Over the past many years, the Danish welfare community has suffered deterioration as the population grows. We are becoming more; there are more elderly people who need help after a long life; more children who need care in day care institutions; more young people in education; more people who in general need treatment in hospitals and in the municipal health sector. Despite this, changing governments have not kept up with the money. After all, it has dominated public and political debate for years because we have all seen and heard the consequences. First of all, it has had enormous consequences for some of the people who are not in this room, who have little to rustle with, and for whom welfare is absolutely crucial. We have seen it in the day institutions where there is no time for proper contact with children. A few children have had contact as low as minutes of adult contact within a whole day. We have small children who have had to be left alone in a living room and who were clearly too small for it. There are hospital patients who have experienced not being heard. There are psychiatric patients who are being discharged prematurely. There are new parents who have to be sent home from the hospital a few hours after a birth. We have teachers who do not have time for preparation. We have home help on a minute counter where you can only dream, as older people, that there is a care that can also involve some contact, some care, a talk about how the day and life really go. There are elderly people who can't get help to go to the bathroom. So there are so many examples that even if I were to spend the full ten minutes, it would never really do justice to the people who have been affected. And then we have not even talked about all the public sector employees, who are running faster and faster and have more and more tasks. You have also seen colleagues disappear while the tasks have increased tomorrow it is 1 year since a new majority was elected. It took just a little time for a new government to arrive, but a new majority came in one year ago, and I think that most people will not oppose it when I say that it was very much a climate choice and a welfare choice. I believe that we have been given a very clear mandate as a majority to ensure that the deterioration in welfare should stop and that it was now time for us to actually make improvements. There is hardly the party that did not go to elections for improved welfare. The Social Democrats went to elections on a welfare law. In the Left it was called a welfare vow. In fact, the content was the same, namely that as we get more, the funding must keep up, and then the resources must be there. Then you can talk about quality • What do we do with the time we have with the children; what do you do with the time you have with the elderly; what do you spend time on in schools? Savings can also be found and efficiency can be found in the public sector. That's for sure, you can. You can find stupid and more than one stupid consultant report that you didn't have to spend money on. No doubt about it. But it is not to such an extent that you can just make a green harvester every year and then believe that then the efficiency comes up. The result of this has been very, very clear in the real world, and therefore this proposal is not just about figures, as some are trying to say. It's about real living people. And I think we should look at how we can gain more confidence in public servants, how we can get rid of bureaucracy and documentation requirements that are unnecessary. But we cannot just sit back and save, not give economic priority to welfare, and then say that it has to be resolved. It can't be, it's not connected, and it's the shift of responsibility of the worst drawer. Well, why am I saying all this now? It's not new. No, it's not. However, we are facing an economic crisis or are entering it, and it may become both deep and, if we are unlucky, may also be prolonged. And there are a lot of people who have seen the welfare society join in the most beautiful style, I think. High as low has been helped. Billions have been sent into aid packages for both large and small companies, for the unemployed and many others. We might have wanted a different balance, but there is no doubt that the welfare society has really proved its worth. But there are so many people who also know that it costs, and who is going to lift that bill? Will it be well-being again? Will it be the care of the elderly now? Is this supposed to be the time for my father or mother at the nursing home again? Are these gonna be my kids at school? Should we be more classmates? These are, of course, the concerns that are quite specific. These aren't numbers. It's concrete, and it's living people. And that welfare is an important part of ordinary people's lives. That is why it is good to confirm that the welfare promise and the welfare law exist. Whatever the way you want to finance it, this is a motion for a resolution which imposes a result. And then I guess we all have our own idea of how the funds are supposed to be. But this imposes a result and reaffirms a promise. That's why I'm really glad the government wants to. I think that is an important signal to send out, because many people are insecure and worried. I am really disappointed that the Left may not want to. But thank you very much for your support for both the SF and the Danish People's Party and for the government and the Social Democrats. I'm really glad. We shall, of course, continue with the committee procedure. Well, maybe some more of us will find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184951	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604184953	I would like to know if Enhedslisten recognises that you can do things in a different way so that you can have more basic core welfare for the same money, and if Enhedslisten also recognises that you can prioritize the money in the public sector differently, so that you can channel it to basic core welfare and then do not spend it on other things, for example. in central administration and management.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185018	In fact, I think I used a great deal of my speech to say that you can. There is unnecessary bureaucracy in the public sector, there are unnecessary documentation requirements, there is a lack of time for the employees. And there are many things we can learn from corona, but one of the many things we should learn is to see what happens when we ask the educators to organize everything in a completely new way and do it themselves, or what happens when the teachers are told: Now it's up to you; here's a huge task to loose it locally. And they shine; they do the wildest things in record time. So I think we've got proof of a lot of things, among other things. The value of the welfare society and everything else, but also the fact that public employees are extremely skilled and work incredibly hard. And if we set them free, there might be time for something else, yes. But can it do so in order to ensure that demographic developments are followed at the same time? Can you save that much? No, I do not think so, and at least you should not do so until you have found the savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185130	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185131	But Enhedslisten's solution is: Send more money. Let us take the minimum standards if you take how much of the time educators are with the children, that figure has fallen from 56 per cent. 51 per cent. And if you raise that number to 56 percent. instead of 51 per cent, the means have been found, i.e. what would be the equivalent of minimum standards in kindergartens. Then there was no need to channel more money into it. But if you change the workflows and I'd like to be a part of that, there's no reason to channel more money out. When you talk about the fact that you send first-time birthing home in the Capital Region, it was to save 927,000 DKK, but at the same time you spend more than that on art to decorate a new hospital. So the money's out there in the system. You just choose to prioritize them on something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185218	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185219	A political majority has chosen to prioritise and has chosen a great many stupid things with unnecessary bureaucracy, documentation requirements that are not necessary. And I repeat: there is every reason to set public employees free. I do not think it is the Folketing that should sit in here and make more rules or workflows for the day institutions as it may almost sound like New Citizens' wishes. I think we should set public employees free and believe that they can actually give priority to themselves. But we have had the experiment, for example with the re-priority contribution in hospitals for many years, when the majority of the people said: you have to find savings of 2%. Every year, and it's a local responsibility. What happened? There was a deterioration in quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185303	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Finance Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200604185319	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 9 June 2020 at 10:00 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
