ParlaMint-DK_20200310130044	The meeting is open. I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement before we proceed with the party leaders. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310130053	Thank you. Today, at Question Time, I should like to focus solely on what concerns us all most, namely the outbreak of the corona virus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310130110	Stop! We need to get somebody to deal with the unrest we have in the gallery. We shall postpone the sitting until we have peace in the gallery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131023	We'll resume the meeting. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131037	Thank you. I think it is both natural and absolutely necessary that, for my own part, I concentrate my words today on what I know to be the concern of everyone here in the Danish Parliament, but also of the entire Danish population, namely the outbreak of the corona virus. Last Friday the number of infected with coronavirus in Denmark was 21 and 2 in the Faroe Islands. This morning we have reached 156 infected people, and it is rapidly evolving hour by hour, and we must expect this figure to be adjusted up quickly. This development is so much expected in relation to what we see in the world and in Europe, and we must consider that this figure is going to increase even more. I would like to stress here today, as I did at a press conference earlier today, how serious a situation Denmark is beginning to face. It's serious at home, and it's seriously screwed up. Of course, you have seen that yesterday in Italy they chose to shut down the whole country, and we are now talking about changes and interventions of a nature and a magnitude that we are not used to in our part of the world at all. That is why we need to look each other in the eye and recognise how serious the situation is. If too many Danes become infected, the capacity of the health care system cannot keep up. We are looking at a resource problem with regard to employees who are themselves at risk of becoming infected and therefore cannot meet at work, but also with regard to the capacity of intensive care units. We cannot be sure of this if we do not succeed in what is the strategy of the authorities, namely to contain the risk of infection as much as possible. It will not only affect Danes who are affected by corona. It will also hurt other people who are sick who need intensive care, for example. That is why we are all responsible for following the recommendations that come from the authorities, listening to what is being said and knowing that none of this is for fun, in this situation absolutely crucial. And, of course, we have a very great responsibility, politically speaking, to mitigate the negative consequences, both in terms of the health situation and also in terms of the negative economic consequences that we are beginning to see, among other things. Danish business and thus for Danish employees. On Friday, the authorities issued a series of measures. New ones have arrived this morning. I have informed the party leaders here in the Danish Parliament both times, and I would like to thank you for a good cooperation and for the support I can feel there, that we in Denmark must stand together in a difficult situation. With regard to new areas of action, there are cuts in four areas. Firstly, there will be new recommendations for particularly vulnerable groups. It follows tomorrow from the dialogue between health authorities on the one hand and patients' associations and professional groups working on, among other things. the elderly and health care. Secondly, the travel guides have again been tightened up, and I would urge everyone to follow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website. It moves all the time and can also move again today. Thirdly, a number of measures have now been taken in relation to public transport in Denmark. And fourthly, there are new steps in relation to entry into Denmark from countries hard hit by the corona virus. With effect from later today all incoming flights to Denmark from the red areas will be stopped. This means that you will no longer be able to arrive at a Danish airport if you come from one of the red areas. This means, among other things, that there will no longer be aircraft from the regions affected in northern Italy. In the situation we are faced with, there are many concerns to be taken into account. First of all, we need to contain the corona virus by the means we have. Secondly, we are already there now, when we have to take action in relation to the Danish economy. A number of Danish companies are already affected by this situation. And on the basis of the consultations we have had and the meetings we had in the government with both employees' organisations and Dansk Erhvervsliv yesterday, we look into financial consequences that are greater than what we expected just a short time ago. And I would like to say already today that I believe it will hit a wide range. This means that there are industries that are directly already affected by the traffic, transport, catering, the experience economy, hotel nights, organizers behind large events, but it is also my clear expectation that it will spread to very, very large parts of Danish business, the value chain in industry and other areas. Maybe I'll just take 1⁄2 minutes more than I have to. Yesterday, I announced to the parties of the Danish Parliament that we will be tabling legislative proposals here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we will ask you to urgently legislate. It's not something you have to do too often. It's gonna be absolutely necessary in this situation. I will already report that we will be asking for urgent health legislation so that we can give priority to resources for those who have the greatest need. We will be asking for urgent legislation in relation to the epidemic law. And we are going to look into urgent legislation in relation to help packages for Danish business. The promise on our part is that we will only legislate on what we need exactly in this situation and that we will put all the good parliamentary practices on it here, but we will be asking for urgent treatment. Finally, I would just like to thank everyone for showing a great deal of responsibility, but I also sense in the public debate and in the exchanges that I myself hear that not everyone has yet taken seriously. I cannot stress enough that this is a very serious situation, and if we do not take care of each other now and do what we can, we risk that many Danes will be infected and that the capacity of health services will not be able to keep up and the consequences of that we cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131714	In view of that, the Prime Minister was given a little extra speaking time, and that was quite okay. I must inform you that both the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to two minutes' speaking time and then two follow-up questions with up to one minute's speaking time. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131730	Thank you for that, President. And thank the Prime Minister for another briefing on this. It is very, very clear that this is a serious situation. The Corona virus has hit Denmark, and that creates an uncertainty. It is important that we send for me two very clear signals in this situation. One signal is about the health of the Danes, because it is here and now the most important thing. That is what must be the top priority, especially for the elderly, for the weak, for the vulnerable in our society, which represents a very special risk group. For the Left, at least, I would like to send the very clear signal that we are ready to constructively back up and support all the measures in relation to hospital capacity, with regard to new legislation in the area of epidemics and other things that the government considers necessary to deal with this situation not only to deal with it here and now, but also to deal with it in the future. The second signal is about all the consequences that the corona virus will have for Danish jobs, i.e. for the opportunity for Danes to get up and go to work in the morning. We don't know how deep a crisis this is gonna be. We have many different scenarios we look into. They have in common that they are all quite serious. Here again, I would like to send out the very clear signal that the Left is so ready to support quickly and constructively all the initiatives that the government might take to mitigate these serious consequences. My first question to the Prime Minister, who, of course, bears the mark of the situation we are facing, concerns health care. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the current health measures go far enough in relation to the rapid development in relation to the disease at present??
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131944	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310131948	First of all, thank you, both for your statement today, but also for the one that we have had the opportunity to exchange in the past. I very, very much appreciate that. And it promises well for the time we go into, when I have no doubt that we are going to make decisions about things that we did not imagine a short time ago that we were going to make decisions about here in Parliament so thank you very much for that. On the question of whether it is far-reaching enough, it is important for me to stress that the initiatives taken both at the initial stage, but also in relation to the fact that it was indeed highly accelerating on Friday and later today are not an exhaustive list. It is a dynamic size where the authorities constantly assess what the necessary next steps are, both in terms of preparedness, in terms of traveling in and out of Denmark and in relation to health. That is why we can easily find ourselves in a situation where, even later today, tomorrow, in a few days' time, we will be returning with further initiatives, as the authorities are proposing. It can be said that the strategy chosen by the Danish authorities is clearly a strategy to reduce the spread of infection, because, as has also been said both by the Minister of Health earlier today and by the Director of the Danish Health Service, we do not experience a period of corona that goes like this.It is clear that, as with more infected and more Danish infected people, where the infection does not come from outside, but where Danes start to infect each other, there may be a need for further action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132135	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132138	Thank you. There is no doubt that the health of the Danes is a top priority. I fully agree with that. And we will also contribute constructively to the work that remains to be done. It is also crucial that we deal with the other consequences that this is throwing away, not least in relation to the jobs of ordinary people and to the companies that are at risk and the importance it has for our entire society. And we are also ready to help keep our hands under Danish jobs, and I think we should do so as soon as possible. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the future and, above all, it is important that we, from a political point of view, help to reduce that uncertainty. I understand that the government will already come up with some measures here today to strengthen the liquidity of Danish companies. But I would also call for us to make it clear here today that we are not going to sit with one hand and give aid packages to Danish companies, while we are then coming with the other hand and imposing new tax burdens on Danish companies. So I would hope that the Prime Minister can if not shake my hand, so look me in the eye that today we can say to Danish companies: We are not going to present new tax burdens to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132301	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132303	I can say that the clue we choose to pursue here at an early stage is very clear: the issue of liquidity. Fortunately, we have many small companies in Denmark and what characterises at least part of the companies is that you are very dependent on orders in the order book and there is not a large financial buffer behind the companies, and therefore a setback of the kind that we can, for example,. see right now in the catering industry and in the experience economy, hit very, very hard at a very early stage. Therefore, liquidity is essential and it presents the government already this afternoon. The next thing we look into is concrete compensation for some of the companies that get caught up in the fall in activity, and then we have agreed with the Danish business community yesterday that we will also delve into some of the more industry-specific, because Danish business has many faces, and therefore we need to be able to make a targeted effort as well. So, the government is not planning to put the tax up in this situation, and I think that what is the task here and now is to take care of the health tasks and ensure that we get as many Danish companies and thus as many Danish employees as possible through this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132422	Sir. Mr Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, on behalf of the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132424	Thank you. I would just like to finish by stressing that this is all about security and that we stand together in this room to ensure the safety of the Danes, both when it comes to the health of the Danes and I would like to say that the Left is very ready to support the initiatives that are necessary and also the security of the Danes' jobs. There are many both small and large traders for whom this is going to be hard, some right away, which means that some are already in that situation and some in the slightly longer term. There we should also stand together and say that we will make it as gentle for Danish companies as possible, and the important signal for me and for the Left to send is that we should not bring new burdens to the Danish business community in the situation we are in now. I hope the Prime Minister can support these two initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132518	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132520	There is no doubt that the task is to get through this as gently as possible, but also to know that the economic consequences of corona will be greater than what most of each predicted just a short time ago. We can already see this going through hard in the global economy • we can see it in the transport sector, the travel industry and also part of the more nationally oriented business community. So I would also like to make a very clear commitment on the part of the government that it is a question of getting the Danish business community through as gently as possible, and there is of course safety in terms of conditions, even in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132600	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132607	Thank you, President. And thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. There should be no doubt at all that the Danish People's Party supports that we jointly tackle the challenge posed by the corona virus. We want a situation where the Danes can see, when there is a crisis situation, that they have chosen a bunch of politicians in here who, across the party, come together and find a way to solve things in a strong community. And so I would like to sign for the way the Prime Minister has handled it and for the Prime Minister to invite the parties for regular briefings and so on. And it's our watch, if we think there's something moving and that we're insecure that we take it at those meetings, then we don't take it by being polemical towards each other. It is the elderly, and it is the vulnerable that we have to deal with in particular. And if we are going to miss the goal of some initiatives now, they can probably live with it. But if we do not take the right initiatives now, posterity will judge us hard. Of course, when it comes to the economic support of businesses and so on, we are also prepared to support the necessary measures to help the whole business and the employees well through this. After all, it is not least the employees who are being sent home who can be in a difficult situation. That is why it is really just a basic support for these things that come from the Danish People's Party and then also a hope that people will follow and listen. Because it is quite true that as the days go by, things change, and there is also a tendency to change, and I think that is true of all of us, that every day we are surprised at how developments are in countries around us and countries a little further away. That is why there must also be a strong call for due care to be exercised in the interests of our vulnerable and elderly fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132814	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132817	Thank you so much for the words. And I fully share the premise that, as a society, we should rather go a step too far in this situation than the opposite, and that is what has been our very clear message to the authorities that we also have the back of the authorities. Because I might as well say openly and honestly that mistakes will then be made in a course like this. As a country we haven't tried it before, and although we have some very, very skilled Danish health authorities and we have a strong health care system, there will of course arise situations where some will think: couldn't one have approached it differently? And there, of course, I hope most of all on behalf of staff in the area of both the elderly and health care, authorities and preparedness, that there is a little patience on the part of others, because, to put it bluntly, there are some of the decisions that we are making right now, while we are observing the developments that are in the world around us, and not least in southern Europe, here and now. So I'm very, very happy with that approach. And it is quite right to focus on the most vulnerable groups, because I hear many young people say or write: Well, I don't care about the corona virus, because I'm healthy and strong, and I'm gonna be okay. But what is our major challenge is that there are some who cannot cope if they are infected, and therefore there is a very, very special consideration to take to people with chronic diseases, who may be vulnerable, not everyone with chronic diseases, who are vulnerable to our elderly people, to cancer patients who are being treated right now, and others. So I am very, very much in agreement with that approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132956	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310132958	And then there are other issues that we saw with that consensus, in relation to how we work in relation to the spread of corona, can discuss here in the Folketing, and we must also be able to do so. One of the things I would like to ask the Prime Minister in question is that of dealing with the people who are staying here in Denmark and who have been refused to be in Denmark and who come from Syria, but who the government will not send back to Syria. The Refugee Board has decided in a number of cases that there are some people who no longer have a residence in Denmark and can be sent back, and it came as a great surprise to us a few weeks ago when we learned that the government would not send these people back to Syria. I thought we had a common understanding that people who come to Denmark as migrants can now come more, because we have a crisis situation on that front too, it can be said, about the southern European in relation to Turkey's actor and who does not have a residence requirement, must be sent back to their home country. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the government does not do so in relation to the people who are the subject of the Refugee Board's decision on precisely that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133111	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133113	We certainly have a common understanding of this. Perhaps I should just like to correct one thing in what is being said, namely whether we should send back to Syria people who no longer have a need for protection in Denmark. To that is the answer yes. The government thinks so. And, of course, if you do not have a need for protection in Denmark, you have to return to your home country. What the debate on Syria is currently about is whether we can forcefully send out or not whether we should then be forced to do so, and we do not think we can now, but we are going to enter into dialogue with our European partners on how to ensure that we get to it at some point. But sending back people who no longer have a need for protection, including Syria, is also the government's position that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133214	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133216	But then the government will have some problems here, because then people will probably not be able to return to Syria for many years. The decision taken by the Refugee Board concerned the fact that the people concerned do not have a residence in Denmark either on the basis of the general circumstances or on the basis of whether they are individually persecuted and then, of course, they have to go home. And if the government believes that as long as Assad is in power in Syria, it is not possible to send the people in question back to Syria or cooperate with the Assad regime to do so, then the reality is that in the years to come people will probably not be able to return to Syria for many years to come. People will be able to come as migrants from Syria to Denmark and refuse to contribute to their own return journey, and then Denmark is unable to do anything. Is it not true that it would be the consequence of following the line taken by the government in this particular case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133312	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133314	No, I do not agree with that, because of course there is something between ascertaining what the situation is now and concluding that the situation must continue to be that way. I stand by the fact that the prerequisite for us to make an asylum system work is that I am opposed to the current asylum system, but that is another discussion. Of course, it is also possible to send people back and that you can do so by force. Because we cannot assume that all rejected asylum seekers themselves want to leave Denmark, even though the authorities consider that they do not have a need for protection. So being able to commit is crucial. It is not all countries that we can do this at all times, but our commitment is, of course, to find a way, in cooperation with our natural and ordinary European partners, so that we can also get there as far as Syrian asylum seekers are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133402	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133408	I would also like to thank the government for both resolute action to limit the spread of the corona virus and also for the high level of information to the parliamentary parties, party leaders, health rapporteurs and other relevant people. I also think that there is really a reason to thank all the many people who are working around the clock right now to make those recommendations to the government. I look in particular at the Minister for Health and the elderly and at the people on their shift who are super competent and I think that there is reason to be comfortable that there is a safe hand on the helm, but who is also in a situation where it is for us and for them a country that is in default; we have not tried anything like it, at least in my lifetime. That is why I have a great deal of respect for that effort, and this is true at the extreme, in relation to those who take care of those who are infected, and in this way gets closer to the risk of a huge, huge thank you and respect for that effort. From our side, too, we must be prepared to implement the necessary, including legislative, measures. This applies, of course, to health efforts, which take precedence over everything, and any barriers must be removed, so that we can ensure that help comes to those who need it most and as soon as possible so that the infection can be contained. And then it is clear that there are also the economic implications here which are obvious in some sectors, but which will affect society widely. Therefore, I would also like to give a commitment to look favourably on any initiatives that may come in that area and perhaps also to send a single kind thought to the fact that we have a healthy economy. Because no one can plan for this kind of event, and that's why it's good to have a healthy economy in general, because then you're just better equipped for this kind of thing. Should I mention one thing, which the government has not yet done, but which we would very much like to see, it should be that the Minister for Integration was asked to change the handshake notice so that people do not have to wait for their citizenship because of events completely out of their own reach.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133622	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133625	First of all, thank you for the positive statement, including from the Radical Left, and I foresee close cooperation which will also move in the future, and I believe that with this Parliament we have the best conditions to get through such a situation with the spirit that already prevails. This, of course, requires us to share the knowledge we have from the government, not only with the Danish Parliament, but also with the Danish people, and we are trying to do this with regular press meetings. So thank you very much for that and I will pass on the praise from Mr. Morten Østergaard, and it is true that it applies both to those who are out at the extremes, who can also go through a difficult time when we can ask some to work more. We are going to need side-by-side training; already today the Minister for Health has indicated that we are going to ask students to undertake part of the task and perhaps also ask people who have retired to come back and help in health care. But it is also quite true that today there are a lot of officials who have been at work all weekend and who were also at work all last week, and they are it early morning and late evening and all the hours in between to prepare for us politicians for the preparations, the decision-making framework, the emergency legislation and all the other things. And it's rare that it's the officials who get praised... maybe too rarely... so thank you for also focusing on it. We shall return to the economy. As far as the handshake is concerned, we have had a little disagreement, that is, before this situation has arisen. It is clear that when the authorities today recommend not to give a handshake, then of course we should not lay the foundations for a constitutional ceremony, and therefore our proposal has been to postpone the planned constitutional ceremonies and then hold them at a later date.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133823	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133824	The natural thing was that the Minister used the opportunity he has to change the announcement so that people could get their passports anyway, but we have to pursue that in another way. I think that, as this also shows, it is a vulnerability to the fact that it is not everything in life that we can plan and that we need to respond to what the situation is like, and all the more so there is real reason to think about what it is that you are spending your time on. Here time is a determining factor, that is, in terms of whether or not we contain the infection. In relation to the climate change that we are facing, time is also a crucial factor, although it is not going at all as fast and luckily for it as it does when a virus spreads in the way we see here. It is of course not because there is any comparison between the two things, other than that time is so crucial. That is why I would just like to say thank you for the fact that, from today on, the set-up meetings on a climate action plan based on yesterday's report of the Climate Council have started, but I would appeal to us to be able to tackle two challenges at the same time, when time is so crucial, so that we can make new agreements in the climate area before the summer break that can reduce Denmark's CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310133937	It is quite true that time also plays a very, very important role in the area of climate change. Thank you for the kind push, including in public, in relation to the further course of negotiations. This is true of several different parties. We will do everything we can to organise our work so that dealing with the corona virus does not mean that we do not also deal with other important issues. As we all know, we are engaged in an important debate in the area of equalisation and thus in our basic welfare economy; that work must continue. There are set-up meetings today in relation to the climate action plans; this work must continue and be properly started and, in the light of the discussions we have also had, our proposal is, in other words, that we get off to a good start on waste and the circular economy. The Radicals have had a desire to get public procurement under way; it is still our proposal that we do the same. It is also our proposal that the energy issue should be opened up, as well as some of the bound tasks resulting from a fairly good financial law, also on the climate issue. So it is just to say: yes, it is also urgent in the area of climate change, and we must show in the future that we can deal with more than one crisis, because there are more on our table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134051	Sir. Morten Østergaard, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134053	Yes, and what is really my business here is to say that, while we resolve the acute crisis we have between our hands, we have to take decisions that do not allow us to face new crises year after year in the future. And if you just look back in the current year, there are people who have even got a very clear view of what it will mean if you suddenly experience water masses of a completely different caliber than we've been used to, with the wetest February ever and the Gudenåen far too close to doors and cellars where people live close to. Therefore, my wish here to the Prime Minister is simply to raise it over other things. We can probably find a way to ensure that the police have an extra budget year, if that is the case, and I wonder if the municipalities too can handle it. But there are some things here that will run away from us if we do not make decisions now. Yesterday, the Climate Council recommended a number of decisions to be taken now. And I sense that in the Folketing there is a great readiness to make decisions, quite in line with the broad agreement we had before Christmas. And I appeal to us now to do so, so that before Parliament's summer holiday, whenever it may be, we can deliver a new climate agreement that shows that we know how to prevent new crises while fighting the current ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134207	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134209	Well, basically, I fully agree that if we do not manage to act on the climate issue, Danish, European and globally, then, besides biodiversity and nature, humanity will face crises that can be just as bad as what we are experiencing right now in the field of health. And that is why it is exceptionally good that such a broad majority supports the 70-percent objective, but it becomes even more important, of course, that with the climate action plan we show that we are actually able to put action behind the fine words and the fine intentions. And I actually feel the same way: I feel pretty sure we can do that here in the Folketing. The sitings are starting today, we are going down some of the sectoral tracks, and then we have to tie it together in a goal for 2025, so that things are seen in a context. And we must start today with the sitings and get as far as we possibly can. And there is a very clear commitment on our part that the fact that we are in an acute situation because of corona does not mean that the climate tasks will be reduced or that it will have to be delayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134324	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134328	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking both the government and the Prime Minister for taking the Corona challenge so seriously, both to contain it, but also to combat the spread, and I think that what we need time and again to emphasise is that it is about the place in our health system. Because it is about the fact that many of us who can get sick may be able to cope with it, but we can also pass the infection on to people who cannot bear to get sick, and if they all get sick at the same time, we will have challenges in our healthcare system. I am pleased to note that our Minister for Health has clearly said that students and pensioners are being called up. I was asked by the Vice-President of the SF, who is an intensive nurse, but is working somewhere else today if it would be possible to call staff like her. After all, it is a question of getting everyone on deck and, in reality, also helping in relation to the peaks in health care. We, the SF, will help the government in the best way possible, both in terms of urgent legislation, in terms of spreading the messages and in terms of the challenges we face on the economic side, because this is only the beginning. We will have some terrible effects of this here in Denmark if we do not act in good time, and the SF is certainly willing to do so, including with urgent legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134501	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134503	Thank you so much. One of the things we are going to look into is that today a strong health service has been built up in Denmark, and many parties and changing governments have very, very large shares in that, and that makes our starting point good, as Mr. Morten Østergaard said. Then we are also in a fundamentally strong situation when it comes to the Danish economy, and it is also thanks to political decisions that we are more or less involved in across the parties. However, where we can face challenges is partly in relation to capacity of a technical nature, partly in relation to staff, and already the health authorities are looking into how the private sector can contribute to this. It may be true that a number of health professionals today work elsewhere than in public health care, but we will also have a need to draw on capacity, regardless of whether it is public hospitals and hospitals or private hospitals. I do not want to stand here and comment on the Vice-President of the SF, whom I know as a very good politician, and which is certainly also a very good nurse, but I think we will all have to be prepared to ask the Danes to help solve this situation, and it can also be concrete in terms of lifting a task in relation to health care if you have the competences that we may at some point be asking for and missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134632	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134635	The positive thing in this situation is that all Danes seem ready to help find solutions. I think we should welcome this and it will be absolutely necessary if this is to be resolved. I really wanted to talk about climate, so allow me to move on to that, but I just think that the seriousness of the situation means that we all cannot avoid talking about corona. However, my question is really about the Climate Council's report that came yesterday, and it is, after all, another urgent crisis and one that we can best resolve together, and it is in fact divided into two parts. There is the part that deals with the climate action plans that we have to negotiate and which we have started negotiating, among other things. SF has been at a set meeting this morning but the second part proposed by the Climate Council, which we do not need to negotiate very lately, is an emergency package. SF has also suggested this weekend that we could get started on some things that we really have 1) set the money off in the Finance Act and which 2) are elements that will require nothing more than a quick decision, such as rolling charging stalls all over the country, and that will be deciding more offshore wind farms, because we also lack capacity here. This means that we must stop the public sector from investing in black investment, for example. to buy petrol cars, but instead invest in electric cars. These are elements that we can put in place right now, which do not have to wait for negotiations, and I would like to ask whether the government will be willing to look at an emergency package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134759	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134802	I actually think that these are two different things, because one is, of course, the implementation of the good financial law agreement that we ended up having also in the area of climate change, and there again I would like to thank parties other than the government for pushing even more climate into the Finance Act. So there is a coinage of it, and I am quite sure that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has much more understanding than I do. However, it may seem a little strange to me if we are to take elements out of something that we are still going to have to put together a climate action plan together. For example: I think this question about charging stations, which is a very good idea and necessary if more people are going to drive in an electric car, is to be seen in the context of the recommendations of the Car Commission from which we are still awaiting the recommendations, and hence a discussion on the overall transport sector. So I still think my recommendation will be • I didn't know that there had already been a set meeting this morning, but we're in the process, of course, that we're all getting the seriousness and eagerness into this work that is required, and it's also about sea wind and thus electrification of society, which is probably one of the most important things if we're going to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134922	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310134924	There are several elements. There is, of course, the one where you have to make a whole, which is the climate action plans, which I certainly sense the Minister of Climate Affairs is concerned with, and the long tracks for transport, energy, agriculture and buildings. That's understandable. But there are also things that we can do right now and here, and at least things that we can prevent. It is, of course, among other things that the public authorities are starting to invest in petrol cars, because we know that the future is electric cars. We have set money off to green buses in the Finance Act, so when the public authorities are going to start awarding contracts they are currently offering to the transport companies, they should not do so in a traditional way, but make those demands. So we really need us both to do something right now and here and to think about it all together. I think that is possible. Then, in fact, we also have a third clue, which is about climate protection, because it is no use that the Danes in Holstebro, Silkeborg, Kolding, or where it is now, again and again experience having water in the cellars, when there are things that we could do with this finance law, such as making sure that it is farmland that is flooded, instead of letting Storå, which runs through Holstebro city, flood Holstebro city.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135029	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135031	If I remember correctly, there will be a question tomorrow in Parliament about the weather situation which some Danes have been going through here in a rather violent manner recently. In connection with the climate action plans, it is quite natural to discuss climate change adaptation... how we do it... and after this winter we have all been confirmed in, and how serious the problem is, and that it is one that returns and that it is unsustainable for quite a lot of Danes. So I think it is absolutely right to focus on climate adjustments and on how to ensure that the soil is used in the best possible way. And in connection with that, as part of the Finance Act, a rather fine agreement has already been made on the land issue in relation to Danish agriculture, and we must continue with that work together. So I agree with the impact points, but I just still think it is natural to get it into the climate action plan now. But I agree with the impact points.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135131	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135138	Thank you. From the Enhedslisten side, I would like to start by saying: thank you for the approach to the corona virus and the much information we have received. I think we're gonna do this right. We must not create panic, but we must have the seriousness to sink in. And I think it is very right to ask people to take concrete action, that is to say simply: follow the recommendations and do what is said basically. That is, of course, because we must stop the spread. This also means that there will be more action that we must take from the political point of view. Of course, the Enhedslisten makes itself available, including for urgent legislation and what is necessary. And, of course, it is also clear that there are some small and medium-sized enterprises that we need to keep our hands under, and we will be ready for that too. I also think it is important that we have a focus not only on companies, but also on those who are employed, perhaps not so I hope that there is a focus on that group, and that is especially so, because the tracks may be frightening from the previous economic crisis that hit us. There was, it must be said, a well-grown focus on saving banks and others through the economic crisis. And the bill was then left with our unemployment benefit system, our social network, our welfare community. I think it is equally important to send out the message from here today that the welfare society and the security of employees will also be kept under our control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135324	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135326	I fully agree with that. In my view, there are several levels in this. One is that we need as many companies as we can to look after their employees properly in this process. It's like the one. After all, the next step will be concrete action and concrete initiatives from the political point of view in relation to employees. In other words, just as we are talking about aid packages in relation to the Danish business community, there can also be the same need in relation to Danish employees. Against this background, the Minister for Employment has already had the first meeting with the social partners, FH and DA, which are the major organisations when it comes to quite a lot of Danish employees, and they agree to go into this room together and meet continuously and thus look into what we have of opportunities and means if the situation should arise, that many are fired or you need to distribute the work that is there. Fortunately, we have a number of tools, but we need to be sure that they are being used properly and properly, and I very much agree with the fact that now it was discussed earlier by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's page that history will judge us if we don't handle this situation properly. That goes all the way around. This applies to health, but it also applies to getting the Danish society through as well as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135453	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135455	I'm glad. In fact, I think it is important to say that a great deal is being said about Danish companies and perhaps not so much about Danish employees, and there are some of them who are facing a very uncertain future if this is spreading as it can. I have also promised that I will ensure that we do not forget the climate negotiations in the middle of this situation, just as many others have had it up. One of the things that I think the Prime Minister knows is very important to the Enhedslisten is that we achieve our 70-percent objective and that we do so at the same time without increasing inequality in our society. Everyone has to contribute. We have to. Ordinary people must also contribute. We will probably also look at, for example, excise duties of some kind, but we must make sure that they do so in such a way that it does not turn the heavy end down, and so that those who have very much, and those who make a great deal, are not allowed to let go cheaper than everyone else. One of the things the Climate Council has to look at and which I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister is to use the green cheque. It is, in fact, a rather fantastic mechanism that we already have to ensure that inequality does not increase when we put taxes on things that pollute or place a heavy burden on the climate. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is a mechanism that we must apply, even in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135612	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135617	I have to be quite honest and say that I have not had all that the Climate Council said yesterday because of other tasks, but I have of course taken note of some of the major discussions. I would say, in relation to the green cheque, that it is an instrument that we know and that we have used in the past to promote green conversion. So I will certainly not deny that this is a way to go. I do not want to reject too many things at all before we embark on these climate action plans because we are going to make major decisions, structural decisions in relation to things that can move things around in our society. Like Enhedslisten, I am very concerned that we are doing this on the right premise, namely that we are doing it without the inequality going to increase, and without compromising Danish employment, competitiveness and export, and that is what will be the task. It is a difficult task; it is not an impossible task, and if there is a society that can do it, then it is ours. However, it is good to stress that this is the premise that we have to work on, because it is simply too short-sighted, understand me correctly, to resolve the climate crisis by then creating some other problems that we will then have to tackle afterwards. So we might as well get it handled along the way, even though it's difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135732	Mrs. Pernille Skipper for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135734	Thank you. Well, there's a lot of talk about these climate negotiations even before they get started. I can tell you that there were a few set meetings this morning, so we're on it. There has been a lot of talk before, including harsh words, on our part too. I would like to conclude by saying that I think the Prime Minister can remember the understanding paper and the negotiations we had and how much this played in these negotiations. The 70-percent objective and the realization of it is, of course, one of the cornerstones of the formation of this government, and that is why it is, of course, the one for the further life of this government. I think the PM knows that. Another thing that I am quite sure the Prime Minister remembers we spent a lot of time talking about is that we should not make any reforms that would increase inequality dramatically in our society; that time was over. And these two things have to play together. So I am actually pleased to hear now that when we enter into the negotiations on the climate action plans, the Prime Minister agrees that the two guiding principles, the pillars, also apply throughout the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135841	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135843	I would like to say that I remember the debate on the understanding paper shining clearly, and I really believe that I am taking them with me throughout my life. It is true that the whole climate discussion was one of the things that filled the most. It is of course no secret that both Enhedslisten, SF and the Radical Left were ready to go up to 70 percent, long before the Social Democracy it was simply because we were in doubt whether we would be able to get there. I'm glad we made that deal with each other. Now we have a 70-percent objective, and it has proved to have an independent value both in relation to the outside world's view of Denmark, but also in relation to putting pressure on all of us politically with the climate partnerships with Danish industry and Danish employees, who are now together for the first time to solve the task. You could say, so far, so good. It is important, when we enter into these negotiations, that it is not just a climate debate. It will have to be a climate debate which, of course, has an eye on Danish business, Danish employees, employment, exports, cohesion and combating inequality and what is unique to Danish society, namely that we do things together and not just for some of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310135958	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140006	Thank you. I can say straight away that I have three questions about the corona virus, because I think we are in a situation where we can hardly talk enough about what we should do. I fully acknowledge that it is evolving and that we do not have all the answers from day to day. I don't think anyone expects that either. Great praise to the government, to our governments and to officials all around for the way it's handled. I still think we need a few steps on the way before we all realize that this is the way we are all going to be dealing with 5.7 million people, what we are actually dealing with here. I spoke to a municipal politician yesterday, who I called and asked: what are you actually doing with the elderly fellow citizens who are visited several times a day by home care and who will not be able to tolerate having this virus? What's the scenario? And we can ask more questions than you can really answer here, but it is just to show that there are many things, both in the near and in the broad perspective, that are going to affect us all. I agree that we should not make policy on that policy understood in such a way that it is such a thing to have a fight where you shoot at each other. But I also think it is important that we ask the questions we have and discuss what must be. I wonder, of course, whether there is a plan and whether the government is now working on plans for what we are doing if this ends up as in Italy or elsewhere. What's the contingency plan for when we have perhaps 2,000, 10,000, 20,000 sick and many of them going to a hospital? I do not expect you to be able to answer that, but I have the impression that we have some authorities who are considering what we are doing in the particular situations. I'd like to hear: is that something you're getting a long way with? Is this something you want to actively put forward, or do you want to assess the step-by-step case more? In fact, I think it is important that people can have some sort of security in that if the violent happens, there are actually some plans, including for the very difficult situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140213	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140214	Thank you very much for the question and also for the support for the work that is going on. Of course, the authorities are working on scenarios, including those we want to avoid at all. Therefore, the efforts here and now are primarily aimed at avoiding being in a situation like that in Italy, by keeping the infection from the door as far as we can, and even though it may sound a little strange, make it spread over a longer period of time, so that we get help from spring and summer, and so that it does not develop like this in Italy. But, of course, we need to look into the various scenarios from the political point of view and based on the information provided by the authorities. In relation to the elderly, there is a need for more things. First, the authorities tightened it up so that if you have been in one of the risk areas and are an employee in the area of elderly people or care, you should not meet at work. The next thing is that if you're working in this area and you're the least sick, you have to take into account the people you meet. We need family members not to go to the care center, not to visit their elderly family members, not to visit the sick in the family if you are generally ill, or to an even greater extent, of course, if there is suspicion of corona, but also if you are generally ill. Finally, I would like to say that many older people will need help, and one of the things that is really good in this situation is that you are not where there are many people. So, for example, if you're gonna do something like this... as older people need to drive public traffic, where there are many other people, to trade, it is better that your children or grandchildren act for you. It is just to say that there is something that is about employees and something that is about family and relatives, and then we have to help each other in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140413	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140414	I very much agree with that, in other words, we as families must take responsibility for each other and not just look at the authorities solving it. Then I would like to get used to the more business-oriented aspects of my next two questions. Because you can have many approaches to this, but you also have to recognise that the prerequisite for Denmark's well-being is that the families are well. And the prerequisite for their having it is that they have a job. And for me, it is not about the fact that there is a particular economy that is, in general, focused on companies. However, helping companies can mean that people can keep their jobs. And doing something for companies is also doing something for employees. I simply do not believe that these two things can be separated. Firstly, is it not time now that we, as a society, have to take the joint responsibility that it is to make recommendations instead of recommendations when it comes to organisers who have events? In other words, it may mean that they may be able to go to their insurance and recover it, or that we as a community must help. For it means infinitely much to the individual company with a huge loss resulting. I mean, it's a little easy for us to make recommendations, but it might be an injunction that will help. And don't we leave too many people on the platform just talking about recommendations instead of injunctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140531	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140533	So, in the discussion on recommendation or injunctions, we are working on the basis of the recommendations we get from the authorities on what the authorities think is necessary. And that is the reason for the decisions that have been taken so far. It can change. Having said that, in the economic management of this situation we will need to look at the losses that may be for business as a result of corona. In conclusion, I would like to say, at least in relation to this specific question, that I simply do not believe that we can legislate on everything in relation to the corona virus. We will need a change in the behaviour of the Danes in so many areas that we will see recommendations and recommendations in a wide range of areas where we are very dependent on people following them. We are not going to be able to legislate out of it all. This does not mean that it cannot be necessary to do so in a particular area, but so, the order is chosen as it is chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140642	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140643	For me, it is just important to say that one thing is what authorities recommend. Another thing is what we politically want. And there is also room for us to have a political position and say: is that what we want? Because there are some people who get stuck here. And it's also a perfectly legitimate factor to have in this discussion. Then I just want to hear something from the PM. If I ask: what could we do to give companies some oxygen in this situation? In other words, could you imagine suspending the employer's period so as to reimburse sickness benefit from the first day for those who are severely affected by the corona virus, of course not by all sorts of other things? Could you imagine that it would be easier to do something about sending people on a division of labour? We saw this in the financial crisis, i.e. how people could sort of keep their jobs, by some companies and professional organisations making some distribution agreements. Could it be imagined that we just paused it, how much banks should upholster themselves so that they had some means to strengthen corporate liquidity? Well, actually, I'm very open to the fact that we're discussing this in broad terms. There may also be something that, ideologically speaking, would not lie with me, but where I think we are in a special situation where we have to keep our hands under our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140756	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140757	The short answer is yes. You can imagine looking at all three things. Cash flow is both about when to pay to, for example, the Treasury, VAT and tax. But it may also be that there are things that we do not have to pay for a period of time to keep our hands on companies. So you can certainly imagine that. The distribution of work is, of course, a well-known instrument, and we are looking at it now; whether it is some of what needs to be used. Finally, there is the question of the banks. So, we have a fairly healthy financial sector in Denmark, which is why I also believe that there is room for banks to help some companies over a hopefully time-limited period and that it will certainly require something of us other than our management of the financial sector. And I will allow myself to report now that we are inviting discussions of the Ministry of Industry. So the answer is: Yes, one can imagine looking at all three elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140858	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310140905	Thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister told the press yesterday that the economic effects of corona will probably be greater than many have imagined. Economists are talking about a risk of setbacks in the global economy in line with the financial crisis in 2008: a crisis that put growth back for many years. It cost a lot of Danes their jobs, and it cost many companies their lives. We do not know if this is going to go so wrong again, but a responsible government must, of course, be at the forefront and not at the rear of the risk. I also hear the Prime Minister say the government agrees with that. Against this background, I would like to ask how the government will give priority. After all, the government has committed itself to a 70-percent reduction in CO2 as we know, I and New Citizens think that decision is a really, really bad decision. It is for several reasons: firstly, because Danish alone will have no effect whatsoever on the climate globally; secondly, because it will be extremely expensive for the Danes and for Danish society. Yesterday the Climate Council came up with their recommendations on how they 70%. can be reached and the instructions confirm my worst fears: significantly higher taxes across the board, increased costs for Danish business, serious risk of loss of production and jobs abroad and additional burdens on Danish agriculture. That's the recipe. Does the Prime Minister think that it would be responsible to insist on introducing expensive climate measures while not just Denmark, but most of the world is on its way in recession and threatened by economic setbacks due to corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141106	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141107	First of all, this reveals a political disagreement, which was also there before the corona virus. Unlike Mrs Pernille Vermund, I do not think that it is bad for Denmark to have taken the green driver's shirt again. If we do this in the right way, I also believe that there is a very, very great potential for Danish business and therefore also for Danish employees to be those who are really pushing for the green transition. One of the reasons why quite a lot of people today go to work every day in Denmark is the green transition and that you are so skilled in the Danish business community in relation to the green transition. Then there is the question: how do we deal with a 70-percent objective and the negotiations on climate change that we ourselves are about to embark on now, and then a corona virus that may potentially prove to be more structural in the economy? There is my preliminary answer that we must take this very seriously, and it is not really a political debate that we can allow ourselves to enter without looking at what is behind the curtain or the premise on which we stand. And it is clear that if the corona virus turns upside down parts of the Danish economy, that fact has to be included in the negotiating room when we discuss the climate action plan. Of course. However, we do not deviate from our climate targets, although we are currently in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141238	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141239	Thank you for your answer. I'm afraid that wasn't exactly what I was hoping for. I had hoped for a guarantee to the Danes that there will not be climate taxes at this stage. I'd like them never to come. However, in a situation where we are facing a threat due to the corona virus and where the threat could increase in the near future, I think it would have been appropriate to say clearly at this stage on the part of the government: no, we will of course not increase taxes. I was hoping for that answer, but I'm afraid I didn't. We look into a situation where we have to make aid packages and support liquidity, and then we sit in the negotiating room and are ready to pull the carpet away under the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141332	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141333	Well, we shouldn't pull the blanket under any Danish companies. We should not do that in the current situation, nor should we when we discuss climate action plans. I look forward to seeing the results of the climate partnerships launched last year, when the Danish business community, with everything I hear, has gone exceptionally ambitiously to the task. It may well be that there are parts of the Danish business community that are actually proposing changes in the tax area because, as a profession, it is the right way to go, so I am not quite sure that it is so black and white. So, much of the Danish business community says that the 70-percent objective combined with the right decisions will potentially benefit Danish business if we do so in the right way. So the contradiction does not have to be there, but again, of course, we cannot now discuss the climate action plans without having an eye on current developments in the Danish economy; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141438	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on behalf of the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141439	Thank you again for your answer. What comes from the Danish business community and what came from the Danish business community is a combination that has been said: we can achieve these objectives in order to get some severe both tax relief and tax relief, which means that we can afford to take action in these areas. That is actually the exact opposite of raising the taxes that were paid by the Climate Council yesterday. It seems to me that the government and those who are now responsible for Denmark owe it to them to explain what a farmer can use at the foreclosure or an unemployed industrial worker for us to be a leading country in the climate sector in Denmark if you stand there and have lost your business, your agriculture or your job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141521	But quite a lot of industrial workers in Denmark today go to work because of the green transition and only because of the green transition. In other words, a very, very large part of employment in Denmark is linked to the part of Danish industry, large and small and old as new companies that have been able to take the lead in the green transition. So there is no contradiction if we do it wisely, and Danish industry and Danish employees have shown this for a number of years that we can do it in Denmark. What we need to do now is to make decisions that support it does not counteract it. I was in South Jutland the other day, and I see the interaction between the University of Southern Denmark, the engineering degree programme, and what happens at a large company such as the University of Southern Denmark. Danfoss or LINAK, where there is high employment and where there are turbos on the green conversion, and even in such a way that both highly educated and, for example, skilled people today are guaranteed a very good job in the South Jutland. So we have plenty of examples that it is the green transition that makes employment in Denmark high, and that is what we must support too in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141635	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141644	Thank you. I would also like to begin by commending both the government and the authorities for trying to contain the infection and to avoid a burden on the Danish health service and to ensure the health of the Danes. Because that's what's important. Then there is also a necessary focus on the short-term challenges of Danish business, particularly liquidity-related, and I would actually like to praise the government for that. In addition, I would like to follow up where my good colleague and Prime Minister's candidate, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, let alone the question of whether it can cause the government to consider putting its tax policy in order and keeping taxes in order and sending that signal to the Danish business community. Because no matter how we turn and turn it, no matter how hard this is going to hit Danish jobs, which is what really matters, when you are on the other side of this crisis, you will, so to speak, have to re-establish yourself in the business world, and you have to win back some lost earnings and probably some lost jobs. When the Left's question is particularly relevant, it is partly because this government has shown itself more than willing to raise taxes and charges and has done so 17 times over 8 billion. kr., but also because in the election campaign it was announced quite harshly that there are a large number of taxes that you would like to raise. The Social Democrats alone chose higher taxes on interest rates and on shares and higher inheritance taxes, a balance tax on financial institutions, a tax on financial transactions, a tax on digital companies, a tax on digital streaming services. It is then just the government, and then there are the support parties who want taxes on everything from wealth taxes, tax on advertising, a green rich man's tax, a green top tax, road pricing, aviation tax, shipping tax and special diesel taxes for agriculture, millionaire taxes, and I could go on because the list is endless. Taxes on excess profits have also been voted on. But in view of the fact that the Danish economy is going to be in a more difficult situation and that the business community needs peace to be able to restore itself, the Prime Minister will then just answer the question that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also asked earlier: Will the government keep Danish taxes and taxes in order for the year to end, including the forthcoming Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141857	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310141858	I think that today's Question Time is beginning to sneak in well-known political positions, even in relation to the current situation. I am probably not saying too much when I say that the positions on climate, higher ambitions or the opposite are well known, the view on handshakes is well known, the view on taxes is well known. I think that the most important thing when we talk about Danish industry here and now is actually the liquidity issue, because we have a number of companies that do not have a huge money tank behind them and which are therefore sensitive when we see the decline in activity that we are beginning to see in some industries, especially now. That is why we are putting in the first place. Tax issues are, of course, relevant and our tax policy does not change the situation we are in. I may have to put it another way: our tax policy does not change, but we always take stock of reality, and that is why when we discuss tax policy in the future, it will be at the back of a crisis connected with corona. When we start seriously now with the negotiations on climate action plans, in my view we will have to have the current situation with us into the negotiating room. For me, this is a natural way of working, because when there is a change in reality, it is taken into account in its political considerations, and this will of course also apply in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142037	First of all, I would like to give full support to focusing first and foremost on the liquidity challenges, of course. I think that both the Prime Minister and I agree that then the business community will find itself in some kind of situation where, to some extent, there is a recession that has taken place. We do not know how much this is about, but there will be a recovery that needs to start. And here I hear the Prime Minister saying that Danish industry should expect to continue the harmful tax policy that has been pursued so far, namely with higher taxes and new taxes, but I also hear the Prime Minister saying • and it is really quite interesting that if it is the case that the developments that are currently taking place on the stock markets and the like have a character so violent that it develops into a really difficult economic situation, one would consider turning down or not pressing down the accelerator completely in relation to a harmful tax policy. In this way, the Prime Minister actually acknowledges that much of what the Prime Minister went to the polls is in fact the last thing that the Danish economy needs to be implemented if and if the business community is in a difficult situation at all. I would almost like to sign for that recognition too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142142	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142142-2	No, I do not want to admit that the policy we chose was wrong or would be wrong. You always have to take stock of the situation. Of course we have to do it. We, a very, very broad section of the Folketing, have agreed on the tax on cigarettes. Very few parties are outside that agreement. I assume, then, that all the parties concerned with the taxation of cigarettes in relation to public health are keeping to that view, even though there is a situation with corona right now. It's also just to say that the one counting taxes does contain some different elements. I fully support the fact that, for example, the plastic tax has been increased and the fight against plastic pollution remains important, even if we have a crisis with corona. So I will in fact confine myself to repeating what I said before, namely that I always think that we, the Parliament and the government, are obliged to take stock of the reality and situation of the Danes, whether you are a businessman, an employee or outside the labour market. And, of course, it has to be in the room, even when we discuss climate and when we discuss taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142302	Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142303	So I just want to hear: if we are in a situation in the Danish economy where there are Danish jobs that have been lost, and there are people who no longer have their jobs to stand up for in the morning, and that Danish companies have an increasing investment need to develop their businesses, would it be wise to implement the Social Democratic election promise of higher taxes on shares, higher taxes on financial transactions, and that the financial sector is subject to higher taxes, or would it be unwise to implement such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142335	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142337	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's support in the current situation I forgot to say that in my first speech. This is going to be a bit of a repetition, because any change in our society must be seen in the light of what we are facing, and this also applies, of course, to taxation. I think it is all too early to anticipate what Danish business looks like and is feeling on the other hand, i.e. what the outbreak of corona will mean. Therefore, our approach will certainly be to take the steps at the rate we can see things develop and change, and therefore focus on liquidity will be the first effort, and then our recommendation will also be that we are already looking at some of the industries that are most at risk. Depending on how things develop, we may be in a situation where the economy is more structurally challenged and changed, and that is a completely different discussion, and we will of course return to it here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142443	Thank you. That concludes Question Time and we shall move on to the other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142458	Today, Tuesday, 10 March 2020, Parliament's agenda has been informed by the Alternative Parliamentary Group that the members of the Folketing Uffe Elbæk, Rasmus Nordqvist, Sikandar Siddique and Susanne Zimmer pr. 9 March 2020 has resigned from the parliamentary group of the Alternative. The Members mentioned are therefore outside the groups. The reason why we mention this is that it has certain implications for our Rules of Procedure, etc. I have received a letter from the Prime Minister that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 21 January 2020, it was decided that the responsibility for various IT tasks relating to the Danish Evaluation Institute was transferred from the Minister for Children and Education to the Minister for Finance. The notification will also appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 21 January 2020 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior data centres, contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Danish Evaluation Institute, is transferred, according to the detailed agreement between the Minister for Children and Education and the Minister for Finance, from the Minister for Children and Education to the Minister for Finance per year. 1 March 2020. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions I shall not read the titles: Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of voluntary tax payments account). Mai Mercado (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 150 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the ceiling on the deduction of donations to charity). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting-up of a Committee on Drugs and Drug Addiction following a Norwegian model). Birgitte Bergman (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the grant of maternity benefit to selfemployed persons). Henrik Dahl (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 153 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to move the administration of watercourse cleaning in Denmark as soon as possible from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Agency). Marcus Knuth (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 154 (Proposal for a resolution on the permanent exclusion of persons who have been sentenced to a conditional or unconditional prison sentence from obtaining Danish citizenship), Motion for a resolution No. B 156 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution requiring immigrants on cash benefits or integration benefits to be employed at least 37 hours per week) PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 157 (Proposal for a resolution to the effect that Denmark, when receiving quota refugees, gives priority to the reception of persecuted Christians and other religious minorities). Mona Juul (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 155 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to lower the limit on the amount of the levy). Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others: Question No. F 54 (Will the Minister explain the progress of the Government's compensatory measures, including the presentation of all calculation criteria and analyses used as a basis for the action, and what instructions have been given to the officials in the preparation of the action, so that the suspicion that criteria have been designed solely to favour certain social democratic municipalities can be ruled out?). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Mads Fuglede (V), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA): Hasteforskning nr. F 55 (What initiatives will the Prime Minister launch so that the threatening flow of refugees and migrants from Turkey is stopped before reaching Denmark's borders in the same disastrous way as in 2015 and 2016?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I should like to say from the Bureau and from the assistants that we look forward to the many debates. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following bill: Draft law amending the Law on Energy Networks, the Law on Electricity and the Act on Natural Gas Supply. L 115). Does anyone wish to include this bill? That is not the case, so the bill has lapsed. Members of the Folketing Nils Sjøberg (RV), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Christian Juhl (EL), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) etc. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: the motion for a resolution on financial support for the social work of the German minority. B 131). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? That is not the case, and that is why the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142809	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310142918	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) has applied for leave from 10 March 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a), while Sjúrður Skaale (JF) applied for leave from 17 March 2020, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143011	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Anna Brændemose, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 10 March 2020 on the occasion of Charlotte Broman Mølbæk's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the 2nd deputy for Javnaðarflokurin in the Faroe Islands, Barbara Gaardykke Apol, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 17 March 2020 on the occasion of Sjúrður Skaale's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Thank you. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143057	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken now. The vote is now closed. In favour 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143149	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 61 by Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Morten Messersschmidt (DF), Jens Rohde (RV), Halime Oguz (SF), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and can be voted on now. The vote will end. In favour of 109 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 1 (LA) (by mistake)), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 61 adopted. If there is a mistake, you can formally get it registered up by the secretary if you are friendly and polite. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143349	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF and NB), against 93 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstentions 2 (LA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143425	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143450	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 14 (DF and NB), against 95 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer(UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143535	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Marie Krarup does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143544	Thank you. In a moment, we will be voting on this proposal, which will prevent people who have been granted citizenship but have committed crime from maintaining their citizenship, so citizenship must be conditional on the prevention of crime. We in the Danish People's Party have seen with great amazement in the report that the Conservative People's Party does not intend to vote in favour, because we have seen with pleasure that the Conservative People's Party wants to pursue a very strict policy in the area of citizenship. We have seen this on the sides of Berlingske, but we obviously do not see it in reality. That is why I would like to call on Conservatives to use the next few seconds to think about whether, if you want to be so harsh in Berlingske, you could turn it into action in the Parliament and then vote in favour of a sensible and strict policy in this area. So I look forward to following what is being pressed on the buttons over there at the end of the Parliamentary Chamber when we shall be voting in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143652	Thank you. I have not been informed that anyone else wishes to speak. Really? Yes, it is. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143700	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote will end. in favour of 14 (DF and NB), against 95 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has therefore been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143754	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143818	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL and NB), against 88 (S, V, RV, SF, KF, LA, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and 1 EL (by mistake)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143909	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310143915	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 28 votes (RV, SF, EL and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), against 80 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Motions for resolutions have been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144006	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144025	Thank you for that, President. Every day carers go to work and make a huge effort for those people who need help and support in their daily lives and they should be thanked for that. But unfortunately, there are also stingy vessels. This bill then requires offers covered by the Social Protection Act to obtain criminal records in future when recruiting staff. This is something that the Danish People's Party has been working for for a very long time, and it could easily be extended to health. I would like to sign for this because we should have actually voted on the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party today. That is why I would like to sign the Minister for the Minister's acceptance of the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party, so that it will now also include temporary workers. So we in the Danish People's Party are satisfied with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144115	We'll thank you. Does anyone else want to speak? That is not the case and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144125	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-4 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144159	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144210	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144248	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144332	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144418	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Then I would like to welcome Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144438	Thank you, sir. President. We have very late received an amendment outside the Minister's report. It is not really because we think as such that there is a problem in the amendment. We just want to have time to look it through properly. That is why we think it is appropriate to get the bill back to committee between the second and third readings, so that there may also be an opportunity to ask further questions about the amendment that the Minister has tabled outside the report. It is a little bit about the scope and understanding of the original legislative text of the amendment proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144515	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144524	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. I should like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept this amendment. 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144608	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Sea of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144614	The draft law before us today introduces a five-year limitation period for certain infringements of the Marketing Act, thus replacing the current limitation period of two years. In practice, this means that consumers have 5 years instead of 2 years to detect defects and defects in purchases, and this may be necessary when misleading marketing can only be detected more than two years later. This gives consumers' ombudsmen better opportunities to enforce infringements, which strengthens consumer protection. The extension of the limitation period applies where misleading marketing has been carried out in the following cases: the purchase of real estate. There have been examples of people who have bought apartment at the project stage with promise of a certain size of accommodation. Often it takes longer than 2 years, from the time the deal is concluded, until they can move in, and when they move in, they can see that the housing does not have the size promised when the deal was entered into, and because more than 2 years have passed, the limitation period has been exceeded and there has been no opportunity to complain. These are credit agreements for the financing of or secured by immovable property. Similarly, there have been cases in which a mortgage credit institution has marketed a mortgage loan as a fixed-rate loan, but subsequently the mortgage credit institution has raised the contribution rate, which is part of the price of the loan, but this did not happen until after the two-year limitation period had expired. It is also a question of continuing contractual relations with a view to indicating a lasting price. In addition, there have been cases where a telecommunications company marketed a subscription price as fixed forever, but subsequently raised the price, and this also happened after the expiry of the two-year limitation period. So we are dealing here with a legislative proposal which basically helps to ensure that people get what they have paid for and have been promised, and the purchase of housing is something that for most people is a big and important investment in their lives, and they must be able to make that investment calmly in their stomachs without fearing being cheated. Similarly, the financing of housing is essential for the private economy of ordinary people and the amount of availability that is to live for once the fixed costs have been paid. It just needs to be taken care of, so no one ends up paying more than has been agreed. Fortunately, the consultation answers also show general support for the draft law. On the socialist side, we are prepared to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144925	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments. I'd like to welcome Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310144935	At the risk of repeating some of the recitals, the draft law here concerns the introduction of a five-year limitation period for certain infringements of the Marketing Act. The limitation period will apply to misleading marketing of immovable property, credit agreements for the financing of or secured by immovable property, as well as ongoing contractual relations, with indication of a durable price. The purpose of the extended limitation period is basically to ensure the consumer Ombudsman's ability to enforce infringements in relation to the marketing of these goods and thus to ensure better consumer protection. The proposal includes misleading marketing of real estate, for example. cases of project sales of apartments where it is often only possible to establish whether the marketing of the apartments has been misleading after the occasion has been entered. Among other things, it can be done. It is a question of misleading marketing of the amount or inventory of the apartment and, indeed, it can easily take more than two years, which is the current limitation period, from marketing and the agreement being concluded to the purchase of the property. And then it is a little absurd that, because of limitation periods, people are not able to keep salesmen up with the promises they were presented with. The same applies to credit agreements for the financing of or secured by immovable property. I think there are many who remember the examples where homeowners were told that they could now take a loan at a fixed price throughout the duration of the loan, but that it would not have been possible to take account of the possibility of adjusting the contribution rates. It would then not be possible to enforce it if the marketing had taken place more than two years earlier, compared with when the contribution rates had to be raised. This also applies to misleading marketing in a continuous contractual relationship, where the trader markets himself at permanent prices of e.g.: a mobile subscription, but where lower down in the terms of the contract there is a real possibility of raising prices. It is not very clever that the marketing law can be violated, as long as the limitation periods are short enough, because the consequence comes more than two years later. It is a number of years since we made a very great deal of clean-up in the limitation periods in a large number of areas, and it makes very good sense, in fact, that we have ensured a much greater degree of uniformity when it comes to limitation periods. But, on the other hand, we should not be blind to the fact that we have to deal with reality, and if we can see concrete examples of the fact that the current limitation periods simply do not provide the protection to which consumers are entitled, we are, of course, ready to play a positive role, because we are in favour of consumers having proper consumer protection. Therefore, it is quite reasonable to extend these limitation periods, so that, for example, when buying a property, you can also keep the seller up on the marketing you were presented with, even if more than two years have passed, from signing to taking over your home. So we support the bill from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145251	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no brief comments, and we shall therefore move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145302	Thank you, sir. President. There should be no doubt in relation to the bill we are discussing here that the Danish People's Party considers it essential that the misleading provisions of the Marketing Act, both in the legal sense and in practice, are useful in protecting consumers from, for example, bad and misleading marketing. If you look at the examples that have been, it is quite clear to the Danish People's Party that there is a need for the sanctions that are now being introduced into the law, where we are among others. can look forward to a longer limitation period. If you look at the three categories mentioned in the comments on the draft law, there is talk of the fact that in a number of specific cases there has been an extremely wrong way of doing this where, I would have liked to say, the buyers and investors of the apartments mentioned here have been misled. Something is now being done about this, about the fact that there must be a longer period of time in order to be able to have cases brought before the Consumer Ombudsman. The same applies to credit agreements in relation to financing and borrowing in connection with the purchase of real estate in Denmark. This is a practice which has also proved to be strongly challenged in some areas. Then there is the last thing that more people may know on a smaller scale, and it is about subscription schemes where there is misleading marketing, compared to what it really is for a product and subscription you buy. So all in all, the Danish People's Party considers this to be a very good clarification. This is a change which will make far fewer consumers in the areas referred to. And that also means that for those who may be caught, a longer period will mean that it is possible to have far more of the cases raised. On this basis, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145526	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. And welcome to Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145534	Thank you for the floor and thank my colleagues from the other parties who have already been up here for a very good review of the draft law. After all, the draft law provides for an extension of the limitation periods, in which enlargement is actually quite limited to some very specific areas where the consumer Ombudsman has found that there are specific problems. It has simply not been possible to intervene, although the Consumer Ombudsman has considered that in a number of cases there could be misleading marketing. The three areas where problems have been identified are the telecommunications sector, in which telecommunications companies, among others, are: marketed a price for a subscription as fixed forever, but raised the price after 2 years. This is the mortgage lending area where mortgage loans were marketed as fixed-rate loans, although the mortgage lending institution subsequently increased the contribution rate. And last but not least, there has been a case of project apartments where the finished dwelling turned out to have a much smaller residential area than the consumer had been promised in sales layouts and in drawings of the apartments. When the consumer discovered it, the limitation period of the two years had run out. It happened, for example. for Lone Rasmussen, who ended up with a 17%. less apartment than she expected, when the apartment turned out not to be 90 m2 but 78 m2. It's a lame one anyway, and it's a really bad surprise to get in your new apartment. I am pleased to see that there is also broad support for the draft law among the organisations consulted. Having said that, I would just like to say that the Radicals also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145720	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145728	Thank you. Bill No. L 123 looks quite reasonable. We think it does, because the limitation period for misleading marketing of real estate is extended from two to five years. This will increase consumer protection. Housing purchases are often an important investment, which requires safety for consumers. This proposal reduces the concerns that you might be able to face when you invest in a home. With a limitation period of 2 years, there may in some cases be problems that only occur later than after 2 years, so 5 years makes very good sense. SF is positive about any action that increases the rights and protection of our consumers, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145815	Thank you. And a warm welcome to Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten... De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145821	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we support legislation that prevents misleading marketing and buying information that misleads us as consumers. We know it from among other things. The housing and loan sector, and we therefore very much welcome the fact that the government will extend the limitation periods from 2 to 5 years so that consumers can react and so that the consumer ombudsman can actually lead the cases. The Enhedslisten therefore supports this bill, but we also wonder why it is that the extension should only apply to real estate purchases, residential credit agreements and subscriptions. I guess it's not just in these sectors that misleading marketing is taking place. In the Enhedslisten we therefore believe, in agreement with the Consumer Council, that the extension of limitation periods from 2 to 5 years should apply in general to all marketing. And I would like to hear from the Minister why the bill does not include all marketing in general. After all, the Minister cannot be here, so it may be that this is a question that we are sending over to committee, where I look forward to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145932	You're welcome. There are no brief comments and I would therefore like to welcome Mrs Mona Juul from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310145942	Thank you for the floor. A word is a word, that is, until it isn't. In such a case, there can be a great many reasons for this. Perhaps you heard something different, and perhaps you didn't listen well enough. Maybe you want to hear something else and maybe you want to keep your word, but you couldn't. And maybe you're just full of lies. Regardless of why and how we have rules for such things, because morality is good, but legislation is not always to be despised either. For example: We have, of course, Article 1 of the Marketing Act, which states that no action may be taken which is contrary to good marketing practice. This means that marketing activities must be legal, that they must be decent, that they must be honorable, and that they must be truthful • some good words that really just mean that you must of course not promise gold and green forests if you know or believe that you cannot keep what you promise, so you cannot deliver gold and green forests. If everyone just lived up to this one paragraph, there was no need for more, and there was no need for us to stand here today, but unfortunately that is not always the case. Unfortunately, it has become apparent that the limitation period for complaints about the marketing of certain products is too short for the simple reason that it is only possible to detect possible over-sales, i.e. what is sometimes called misleading marketing, after the normal five-year time limit for complaints. There are not many examples, but one of them most people probably remember is the so-called project-sold apartments that have been mentioned several times up here, which turned out to be built with a little less square meters than had been promised. This also applies to credit agreements for the financing of real estate, which were marketed as a fixed service but which later turned out to be less stable when the contribution rate was raised. Of course, this is not fair, and Conservatives therefore support extending the limitation period, so that the consumer Ombudsman can effectively enforce the rules on misleading marketing. But why 5 years? What is the argument for this? At the same time, I think it is important to focus on those products where there is a particular risk, and that is among other things. the circumstances in which it is of great economic importance to consumers. Therefore, it seems a little out of proportion to include ongoing contractual relations, where a lasting price is promised, i.e. typically what is going on in the telecommunications market, mobile subscriptions not because it is okay to promise something that cannot be kept, but because we also have to take into account that the market is constantly evolving. And here it could be that the five years are a little too violent. Let me conclude by pointing out that, of course, there is also some sort of administrative burden for companies with this bill. The Ministry's response to the hearing on this point is really poor, I think, and perhaps also bears witness to a lack of insight into what is going on in a company when it comes to determining some things. There are good intentions in the bill, I conclude. I look forward to hearing more in committee about why the Ministry has come up with five years' limitation period and why so different examples of misleading marketing with the same economic consequences for consumers should be in the same legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150231	You're welcome. And I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150237	Thank you. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150244	Thank you for the clear message, and I would like to welcome Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150253	Thank you. We are also voting in favour of the bill, which is well-lit by a number of other parties. It has been a challenge for the consumer ombudsman to reach all cases, including important cases, due to the short limitation period or due to a large case gap or due to a lack of efficiency in the public sector. There may be many good explanations, regardless of what the consumer ombudsman should be able to do his job, which is why the bill makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150315	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then it's that fg. Minister for Industry, in the form of the Minister for Food, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150326	Thank you for that and also thank you for the comments on the bill. After all, it is wonderful when the parties support the government's bill, as is so clearly the case here today. As has been mentioned, the aim of the proposal is to introduce a five-year limitation period for certain infringements of the Marketing Act, which currently applies a two-year limitation period. The extended limitation period shall apply to infringements of the deception clause of the Marketing Act in relation to the marketing of immovable property, of residential credit agreements and of ongoing contractual relations, with the indication of a durable price. The extended limitation period should strengthen the consumer ombudsman's enforcement capacity in relation to such infringements and thus also contribute to better consumer protection. As several rapporteurs have pointed out, there have been three types of cases where the consumer Ombudsman has not been able to enforce these rules because of the two-year limitation period. Firstly, it has been cases in which consumers have bought a project apartment and where it has been found that the completed dwelling was much less than the one promised to the consumer in the sales layout and on the plans; the two-year limitation period had expired. Secondly, there have been cases in which a mortgage credit institution has, for several years, marketed a mortgage loan as a fixed-rate loan, even though the mortgage credit institution has subsequently raised the contribution rate; this also happened only after the expiry of the two-year limitation period. Thirdly, there have been cases in which a telecommunications company has marketed a price for a subscription as fixed forever, but subsequently increased the price; this also happened here after the expiry of the two-year limitation period. So the reinforced enforcement that we are proposing here is justified by the fact that in this type of case there can be a limitation period before the illegal content can be established, because the effect of illegal marketing only occurs more than two years after marketing has taken place, and that is what the bill has to remedy. A number of questions have been asked along the way, which, although I am only a substitute, I shall try to answer, but they can of course also be sent in writing. First of all, the question of why these three areas have been chosen and why they are not generally chosen. It has therefore been examined in the context of the draft law in which there have been problems with misleading marketing. This is what we have to address ■ which has only appeared after the two-year limitation period has expired and which the consumer ombudsman has therefore not been able to enforce. This study has not been able to identify other areas where this problem exists, and it is probably due to the fact that, fortunately, in the vast majority of cases, consumers can see very quickly whether they have been misled. So with this proposal, we think that we have struck a balance between protecting consumers on the one hand in areas where the problems are and where there is a real need, and on the one hand in the interests of business and, above all, of honest businesses, which are actually following the rules today. Then there was a question of why it is 5 years and not 4, 10 or 30 years. Generally speaking, the penal code provides for two years' limitation period, but in a number of areas it has deviated from it. This applies, among other things, to: a five-year limitation period for, inter alia, In this context, we believe that a limitation period has been set in this area, which covers similar areas of similar responsibility, and so there is this balance between the deadline and the responsibility here. Finally, a question was asked about the burden on business in connection with this. When assessing whether a legislative proposal leads to administrative consequences, it is based on the principle that companies comply with the rules, and this means that the time spent by companies by providing information and documentation to authorities in these control and complaint cases in cases where companies have or are presumed to have infringed rules cannot be measured as an administrative burden, because they could simply comply with the rules. In addition, it is therefore the consumer Ombudsman who has the burden of proof in cases of misleading marketing and there is no obligation on companies to keep documentation. That is why we do not believe that there are any unnecessary burdens on businesses in this way. With this, I would again like to thank you for your comments and for your positive reception. I look forward to the committee's consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150902	Thank you. There is a comment from Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150908	Thank you. It is also just one comment in relation to the business burden. It is the case that, as soon as we make some legislation in here, we take precautions in a company, of course. Even if you try to live up to the law and so on, you will probably also try to assess whether there is something you should have a second look at in case there was a case. It could have come even if you had behaved properly. That's why there's gonna be a burden when you have to have an eye on this very thing. So that is what my comment is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310150939	Well, I acknowledge the comment, and it can be said that those considerations can of course also be taken into account in the further work on the legislative proposal. But there is at least, I think, a very clear logic in why we believe that it is possible to establish that there is no particular burden on companies here if they simply comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151001	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151019	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151055	The Danish people and the business community are even very prepared to use the opportunities offered by the digital world. There is, however, a prerequisite, namely that you can experience security in the use of the network and by buying goods from it and trading with each other. L 124 sets a framework for the online trade by ensuring effective enforcement of the so-called P2B regulation, which already acts as law in Denmark. The Regulation improves the conditions for companies selling goods or services on the digital platforms by establishing transparency requirements in the trading conditions of the platforms and by creating effective redress mechanisms for business users. The regulation leaves it up to the Member States to ensure adequate and effective enforcement. On this basis, the draft law empowers the Competition and Consumer Authority to enforce the P2B Regulation and to take action against the digital platforms and to issue injunctions. In addition, the draft law contains a change to the Financial Statements Act, which means that the largest Danish companies have to explain their policy on data ethics in the management report. The requirement is formulated on the basis of the so-called follow-up or explanation principle, which also applies to corporate reporting on social responsibility. We think it's an excellent bill with these two key messages to ensure the ability to run business through the digital world and to be open about its data ethics. Then I would like to add to that for a quiet time at my own expense that I could hear that the President was also choking in the title of this bill that I think it's a thing that we operate with a term called P2B. At worst, I can see that, from an administrative approach to using such an expression, it is clever, but I do not think it gives the ordinary Danish citizen a real impression of what a law we are dealing with and what wording we are dealing with and what a headline it is. If we miss this because the people understand what this is all about, yes, then I think we owe ourselves a great deal of blame. The next thing I would like to say to the President is that when I use the term P2B, I am actually violating the internal rules of play we have here in Parliament, that from this platform one speaks Danish because it is a Danish parliament that we are in and are staying in. That is why it is a mistake for us to have succumbed to this bureaucracy of our language, so I intend to take that into the committee work, and I have announced it to the Minister. He has laughed at me a bit, but I still think it is a pity that we are cutting off the opportunity to give the public a better insight into otherwise good legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151427	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. The President has great sympathy for his views. Of course. I would like to welcome Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151440	Thank you. In the Left, we fully support the purpose of the EU regulation implemented by this bill. We support the ambition to ensure transparency and fairness for business users of electronic platforms. In the Left, we want to improve business conditions when they sell their products via platforms on the web, and that desire includes all companies. But we are particularly concerned about the fact that the P2B regulation can also be called in Danish; I do not think there is anything that will cut us off from this, especially in support of the growth conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that it does not weaken the possibility of new and innovative business opportunities. One of the most important roles for the European Union is to ensure transparency and legal certainty when trading across borders. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today, and it can have far-reaching consequences for the more than one million companies across the European Union that sell their goods and services via thousands of existing online platforms. As you know, Internet trade knows no borders, which is why it is very good that it is now being corrected. Companies must be able to identify the conditions under which they can be present on the platform and, in the case of larger platforms, they must have better means of redress in relation to the platform. The proposal for a new P2B regulation I had written the English words in the speech, but now I stick to the Danish abbreviations from the European Commission sets out a number of specific requirements for the trading conditions that the platform imposes on the companies that use it. Overall, the conditions shall be clear and easily accessible and the remedies understandable, and then the trading conditions shall include a description of the access of business users to data provided by business users or consumers to suppliers. That is basically quite reasonable. However, the second part of the draft law deals with something quite different: a requirement for larger companies to make a data-ethical statement on their annual report in future. We, from the Left side, very much agree that we need to focus more on data ethics; data fills more and more in corporate business models, and in the Left we agree that the potential of access to large amounts of data must be exploited ethically responsibly. And that's why it's hard to be against having to focus more on data ethics. But then, as a politician, we have to deal with reality. It is now 2 hours since the Prime Minister stood here in Parliament and talked about an aid package for Danish business. It is a Danish industry that is under pressure and where there is great uncertainty about the companies' economy and Danish jobs. And then what I'm thinking is that two hours later we're going to deal with this bill, because this bill places an extra burden on Danish industry of 27 million. kr. in the first year of entry into force of the law, and subsequently 7 million. kr. Every year. And what the Prime Minister was standing on the platform saying is that aid packages should now be made for the Danish business community; obstacles had to be removed. And the first concrete answer that we will then receive from the government on the bill, which is then dealt with two hours later, is an extra bill of 27 million. kr. next year and running 7 million. kr. later every year. I really do not think that this is very good. I agree that the government has also imposed a large number of new burdens, taxes and taxes on industry in its financial law and with its support parties, but I do not understand why, two hours after the Prime Minister has stood in the Chamber and said that we must now help the business community, an extra bill of 27 million will be added. kr. Of course, we cannot just look on the left side of the House passively, so we will try in committee either to see whether we can change the requirement for reporting in the annual report or whether we can at least take the trouble to try to remove burdens so that the draft law is at least zero. The last time we had a bill on the Minister of Industry, it was also with a requirement that companies should now report their turnover figures twice. It was not enough to report them to the tax authorities, but they also had to be reported to the Danish Business Authority. And the Minister of Business said it wasn't that hard either. But obviously it must be so difficult that the public authorities cannot find a way of ensuring that the figures are exchanged from one authority to another and that it is therefore the companies that have to do so. And I just think it should be the government that took on the task of ensuring that it was the systems and not the companies that handled the burden. It is so fair that the government does not think it is its responsibility; it must just put burdens on Danish business. And, of course, it is no wonder that this is not something we can support on the part of the Left. So that part of the bill must either stand out in its own, or the government must pull on the work clothes and try to figure out how to lighten burdens for business. It makes no sense, therefore, that two hours after the Prime Minister of the country has stood on the floor of Parliament and talked about a package of aid for business, we now have a legislative proposal that places new burdens on business. We will not be involved in that part from the left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151937	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Welcome to sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310151945	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is very pleased that we are implementing things from the EU when it comes to something that is sensible and in favour of Danish interests. If we look at the issues that have been around online broadcasting services and online search engines in cases where you have been out in this part of it, which this legislative initiative is about • Allow me to use the words private two business, we are not as frightened about international things in the Danish People's Party as both the Left and the Socialists are • it is beyond doubt something that many business companies have been able to recognize. It is in those cases where they have felt like a farmer compared to some things that their employees have bought or ordered, subscribed to, etc. through the services referred to here. It is important in those situations that we have the opportunity to both sanction it and enforce it, and it is also important that we have the powers to do so within the Competition and Consumer Authority. So it makes good sense to implement those parts of it. We also think it makes sense from the perspective that in some of the cases that have been raised, they have had to be conducted as arbitration cases, where the company itself has had to pay, etc. to get things processed. So that part of it we are really very pleased with the Minister of Business has found that they have been implemented in Danish legislation. There are currently no rules for the enforcement of this part of the regulation by the Danish authorities. But the second, and that was a little like that, as the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, mentioned it with additional administrative burdens for Danish companies. It is not, of course, the way forward that we are making an implementation that involves millions of new administrative burdens. We have AMVAB• modeling principles in Denmark that we should use more. We should be more correct here. In fact, many years ago, the Danish Parliament adopted a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. I think it was back in 2005 that we were given a majority in favour of AMVAB calculations being made every year in the Danish Parliament of what the legislation brings with it of pluses and minuses. But it has never been put into practice. Perhaps the time has come to spend some resources on it in the Ministry of Business instead of making new burdens and new demands for explanations of what companies should describe and not describe. It is data-ethical of course correct that we should use information in the places where information is important and can be used. But in this case, you shoot quite seriously over the target and hit outside the dial. So that part of it we cannot recommend in the Danish People's Party. We support one part of the draft law, but not the other part, and that also means that if we are to support this proposal, the Minister must divide it into two, otherwise there will of course be an amendment, and then we will have to vote on it in that way. However, we will not be able to vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal if the government does not respond to these wishes. So on that basis, we welcome 50 per cent. of the proposal welcome, but the other 50%. is too much for us to support the entire legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152334	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152345	Well, thank you. And thank you to the previous rapporteurs for the review. Of course, there must be the possibility of properly enforcing the P2B regulation with more powers for the Competition and Consumer Authority. In addition, I am positive about the second part of the bill, which has been discussed a little more up here. It refers to the fact that the 1,300 largest companies in Denmark must take on the responsibility of explaining their policy on data ethics on the basis of the following or explaining principle. This will help to put Denmark at the forefront of the data-ethics field, and I think it will be strong. I am well aware that we are asking Danish companies to take an extra responsibility by taking on the task it will entail, but it is also very positive to read that many of our business organisations are positive about the bill. In fact, this is also my responsibility when I visit many Danish companies. But in addition, of course, I am always very happy if we can look at how we make it as easy and good as possible for Danish companies. I look very much forward to the work of the committee, but I am also pleased to say that Radicals support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152517	Thank you. And welcome to Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152527	Thank you. First of all, I think I'd like to thank Mr. Orla Sea, who's a little upset about the language or the way this is to be pronounced. You can always be glad you're first number. 5 in the series of speeches, because then you can sneak off the others. But I can hear that there are slightly different pronunciations. SF welcomes the possibility of creating more transparency about corporate data ethics. We believe that P2B platforms are today a vital part of the work of many modern companies. We therefore welcome the fact that the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority will have a number of opportunities to investigate and intervene against the digital platforms notified by Danish companies. In the long term, we would like Danish users also to have the opportunity to complain on these platforms which abuse consumer rights. We believe that this is a sensible continuation of what has already been said in the draft law. It also makes good sense to think the Consumer Council Think into a role as a citizen's watchdog in such a solution here. In addition, it is very difficult to read me how to enforce the rules against platforms established in other EU countries and outside the EU. That is why I hope that this will be made clearer in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152645	You're welcome. Welcome to Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152652	Thank you. As things are today, the platform economy is still the Wild West. Before the regulation there was no significant regulation, and unfortunately, as you know, it invited abuses, breaches of rules, exploitation and monopoly-like behaviour from the major platforms that are most heavily placed on the market. The regulation laid down transparency requirements, gave the platforms trading conditions and their employees rights and resulting obligations. In a way, account was taken of consumers, small businesses and employees on the platforms. A clear distinction was made between being employed and being one-man business, so that only the operators are included in the regulation, while employees who have so far been grossly exploited as fake self-employed must now have real employment contracts • contracts that give entitlement to leave, pay during sickness and other workers' rights. There have been several possibilities and now also commitments to react if there are more of these false self-employed people who lead to social dumping, and we very much welcome this in the Enhedslisten. For the same reason, we also support the draft law because it gives the Competition and Consumer Authority more powers to enforce the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152816	You're welcome. We move on to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310152823	Thank you for the floor. The European Commission has previously estimated that there are around 7,000 online platforms in the EU and that around one million companies are using them to sell their goods, in other words using the platforms as a marketplace. The platforms thus also provide small and medium-sized enterprises with access to larger markets, support corporate growth conditions and provide opportunities for new and innovative business opportunities. It is also clear that the platforms will easily be in a very privileged situation and position, in particular with regard to the many Danish small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, it is good that we get regulated with the focus on transparency and clarity of these platforms, platform to business. I'm okay with us saying it in English, I'm sorry. Today, then, we must ensure that the law can be enforced and that fines can be imposed for infringement of an injunction or undertaking, and the Conservatives naturally support this, as well as the proposal that the Competition and Consumer Protection Board should stand for it. In addition, the bill contains a change to the Financial Statements Act, which means that the largest Danish companies have to explain their policy on data ethics in the management report. The requirement is formulated on the basis of the so-called follow-up or explanation principle, which also applies to the company's reporting on social responsibility. I could really do without that part, of course, not data ethics, but that we must now once again, when dealing with something else, have pushed another claim against companies into an already overcrowded financial statements. Instead, we should ensure that the financial statements are primarily about what was originally intended for it. In addition, in their other reports, companies can and should report on other relevant issues such as human rights, the environment, climate and, of course, data ethics when we find out what we mean by the concept. We're a little short on that, too. However, we cannot continue to impose reporting requirements, let alone the content of the annual report, without reviewing what may have to be done, and not without reviewing the content of the financial statements. Moreover, this part of the draft law is a clear implementation and also contributes extra costs. If the government, as indicated in the text, wants to take the lead in data ethics in the European Union, then I salute it, but there are so many other ways to show it. That said, I am also fully in favour of an expert group on data ethics in 2018, among others. I made this recommendation, and I also fully agree with the intention. There should be no doubt about that, and I will even consider voting in favour of it. I simply fundamentally disagree with the fact that we have to go down again in the management report and that is why I would like to conclude with a call to the Minister, he can pass on to the other minister, to take an opportunity to assess what is needed in such a report and what may have to be moved into a different format. I would also like to contribute input to that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153110	You're welcome. The President should probably say that it is not illegal to use an English word in his speech. What is stated in the Rules of Procedure is that it must be understandable, even when it refers to titles of laws and such things. It's perfectly legal to use both. Welcome, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153133	Thank you. We are on the verge of a deep-seated recession in the world economy if it has not already begun in some parts of the world, and it will undoubtedly hit Denmark as well. This should cause alarm bells to ring everywhere, including in the government, and, of course, in such a situation, we should suspend legislative proposals which impose increased costs on business, otherwise the seriousness of the situation has simply not been understood. So, of course, in New Citizen we cannot support it. We would not be able to do so in a normal situation, and we cannot do so in the situation we are in. It is wonderful that I can see that the Left and the Danish People's Party have now woke up and say: Hey, now we should not impose increased taxes on business. I wish that support had also been there in the autumn when, unfortunately, we voted in favour of imposing a large number of increased taxes on business, but I welcome the fact that we have awakened now and say: we have to stop now. This is a very serious situation that we are facing, and it therefore requires us to take the lead on the part of the Danish Parliament and not to impose increased costs on industry. That is why, of course, we in the New Citizen cannot support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153309	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153323	Thank you for the floor. The first thing that this bill makes me think of is, of course, the Iliad of Homer, because in the Iliad we have the history of the Trojan horse, and this bill is a form of Trojan horse, the horse in the form of a suggestion that the Competition and Consumer Authority should monitor an EU regulation, and this horse is then pushed into the law, and then the Odysseus and his men jump in the form of 7 million. kr. In the cost to the business community a figure that Danish Occupation says is much higher and a very unclear concept of data ethics. The Iliad wouldn't have been quite so good if the Trojans had seen through the horse, so maybe we should just let the Trojan horse come into Danish law. But we will not, because this is a bad idea, and it was Troy's downfall, so we do not support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153430	You're welcome. Then we have come to the acting Minister for Economic Affairs who has the floor now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153444	Here again, on behalf of the Minister for Industry, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and, indeed, to welcome the fact that I have the impression that there is a majority in favour of implementing the bill, and I should like to express my regret to the Social Democrat rapporteur for this P2B title, which is on the bill. But I am told that we are simply obliged to include the title of the regulation in the draft law. This is how they have decided down in the EU that it should be called, i.e. this P2B, which I have found out in Danish you can translate into a platform for business. Because what this is about is that there are some companies that use some digital platforms in this context. But we have to see if we can try to get them to use a little more Danish titles when they pass something down in the European Parliament. I'll do my part. But this bill has been tabled, not least because digital accountability is something that the government takes seriously. Digitalisation offers us a great deal of new opportunities, but it also creates new challenges and dilemmas, and this is not least about the emergence of new monopoly-like digital platforms and the ethically sound processing of user data. Firstly, as has also been mentioned, the legislative proposal aims to ensure effective enforcement of this EU regulation, P2B, which will enter into force on 12 July this year. The regulation aims to create more transparent conditions and better redress for companies selling their goods and services through digital platforms, and with this bill, the Competition and Consumer Authority will have more powers vis-à-vis the platforms than the minimum set out in the EU Regulation. Among other things, it has to be done. help ensure proper ground rules on the digital platforms used by Danish companies. The administration gets among other things: the right to require the provision of all information, including algorithms necessary for the enforcement of the Regulation. The second purpose of the draft law, as some rapporteurs have said, is that the annual accounts law now requires the 1,300 largest Danish companies to explain their policy on data ethics on the basis of the follow-up or explanation principle. The aim here is to focus on the company's work on data ethics, so data ethics can become a competitive parameter for Danish companies, and Denmark will probably be the first country in the world to introduce requirements of this nature to the largest companies, where you have to explain your data ethics. I could hear that this part of the bill was left against, and I also heard from the Conservatives not so violent a resistance, but perhaps one should work a little on how, and from DF's side also a resistance to this part of the bill, and then we had a few parties who rejected the whole bill. So may I not just say to the Left and the Conservatives that I have here a press release from 4 February 2019, when the former government under the leadership of the Left and with conservative participation presented eight data-ethical initiatives, and I quote: "One of the things that needs to be done is that the largest companies in the annual report should report on their data-ethical policy. This is therefore exactly the same proposal as the previous government itself has put forward, and I am therefore of course very surprised that the Left cannot support its own proposal from the past. But perhaps I would expect that to be the case when we move on to committee. At any rate, I hope so, because I believe that the draft law here deserves broad support in the Folketing. With those comments, of course, I look forward to the examination of the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153931	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310153938	Does the Minister think that it makes sense when the Prime Minister of the country stands in the Chamber today and says that it is important that we now ensure that the business community has some good conditions and that we in the Folketing take care to mitigate the worst financial consequences of the serious situation we face, so that we have an additional burden of 27 million? kr. the first year and 7 million. kr. forward-looking? If I am just as right, I think SAS has announced that they will ask their employees to go down in salary for the next three months. Does the Minister think that, in this situation, it makes sense to impose new burdens on business?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154030	So, I think that the rapporteur of the Left is fully aware that this bill has begun and has been drafted long before we knew about the outbreak of the Corona virus and now also the consequences it has had here, which we must of course take very seriously, both as a government and as a parliament. So here we are, in fact, talking about, as I said earlier, a proposal from the previous government, which we have brought into this government's submission of a bill on data ethics. It is against this background that I cannot understand why the Left cannot support its own proposal. Whether special consideration should be given to the particular situation we are in is not up to me to answer. But basically I do not understand that the Left cannot support its own proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154117	Well, maybe that's because the minister is not a minister of the area, so the minister is legally excused. At the same time, however, the previous government had an ambition to reduce the administrative costs of companies. This government doesn't have that, and then things don't stick together. In other words, if you have a government that wants to lower the administrative costs for companies and which brings some things in which there are overall reliefs, then that is a good idea. Here we are now dealing with a government that clearly makes it more expensive to operate. And I agree that this bill has been written and put forward before we saw the serious situation that we are today, but if there were to be a little bit of credibility about what the Prime Minister said today, it was quite legitimate if the Minister said that it was thought at another time when it looked more favourable to Danish business, but that, in view of the serious situation we are in, the government would park it, kick it to the corner, and see if you could combine it with some other relaxations that could at least make it go to zero, or just say: this is not the time. It's quite fair that reality overtaken the government inside. Is that something the Minister could see?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154227	I will only say again that the principle in the draft law that the 1,300 largest Danish companies should explain their data ethics is a proposal which is included in this bill and which has previously been put forward by the Left itself. That is why, of course, I am surprised that the Left cannot support the proposal in principle. But if special consideration is to be given to this situation of corona, it will of course, as I said, be something that can be discussed during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154256	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154258	I think it is a very good thing that the Minister mentions that this is actually a proposal from the previous government. I am 100% in favour of this, but, as the rapporteur on the Left has also said, it was also with an intention to go in and look at some of the things we are burdening the business community with. And exactly with the financial statements and the management report, we have seen several examples of some proposals coming in on top of something else, and that is why I am arresting it and saying: Hey, we could not pull it out of the first proposal that lies there, and then make a joint evaluation of what really needs to be in a management report and what needs to be next to it, and then make some recommendations on it. I'd really like that. So that's why I'm critical of linking it together and suddenly having two very different things in the same bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154351	Thank you. I think that this is a constructive approach by the Conservative rapporteur to the issue. When it is incorporated as part of the Financial Statements Act, it is, of course, because it has a certain significance, as it is subject to review, etc. This also sends a signal to companies that this should be taken seriously. However, I believe that the proposals made by the rapporteur must be included in the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154422	Then it's mr. Orla Hav, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154428	One advantage of the digital media is that you always have a calculator with you. I took the trouble, now that this question is being turned into a big That's 20,769 kroner. and 23 cents for each one, when the amount is distributed among the 1,300 largest companies. Does the Minister not believe that the largest companies in Denmark would be able to bear the small extra cost in order to even be a leader in an area in a world where we can see that digital security and security play an increasingly important role?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154522	Now you can do the bill in many ways, but the figures are at least that it is 20 million in start-up costs for the scheme, and then it is 7 million per year that it will cost in administrative burdens and in the time to make such a report for the two-year accounts. You can always judge whether it's a little or a lot. But one thing is certain, and that is that questions about data ethics and that as a consumer you can be sure how companies use your information, i.e. what data ethics there is, are something that has come to be an important issue. That is also why it is important to be involved as a responsibility for companies today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154604	Any more questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154609	If I may ask the question, it is a little linked to the fact that I think we should stick to the proportions of this important question. And I think it comes a little out of proportion when you say that general, that we are throwing burdens in the head of Danish business. I just want to say that I think that those DKK 15,384 like the $20 million. kr. is distributed, roughly equivalent to entering into a contract with the local football club and then follow up with an annual grant of about 5,000 DKK. In fact, I think that we can get as much out of this by being forward-looking in the digital field and helping Denmark to have a forward-looking position in that area. Just put it like that to bring the proportions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154654	But I do not disagree in this way with the interpretation of the proportions by the Socialist rapporteur. I would like to say that. And at least in view of the importance it has today for the individual consumer and for us as citizens, how our data is being processed in different contexts, this is a question that has come to be taken also as a requirement that companies disclose it openly here. And that is what the bill is proposing, just as the previous government proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154722	Thank you, Minister. There is no one else who would like to make a brief comment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154740	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154758	Thank you. Back in the summer of 2017 it's almost 3 years since the introduction of new legislation to combat what was called insecure begging. And it is true that begging is already a crime today; but insecurity-building begging was what was going on in pedestrian streets, stations, places where there are many people and where being confronted with much begging was a challenge and also created insecurity. That is why new legislation was introduced in 2017, which tightened the penalty for what you saw categorized as insecure begging, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that you can be punished without prior warning, and, on the other, that you also sharpened the penalty for this type of begging. Now we are standing here three years later because at that time urgent legislation was put in place which expires this summer. And, of course, it is relevant to look at what the experience has been. And the experience has been that the law has worked; a great deal of this has been done, which is why it is the Social Democratic Party's attitude, both as government and as party, that this law should continue to work. And what this bill is all about in its simplicity is that the law can continue its operation, even beyond the expiry date that is this summer. And, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154949	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310154954	Thank you. One of the criticisms that has been made of in particular in the hearings we have received, and of which there have been many, is the lack of basis, the lack of evaluation of what the rapporteurs spoke of as the experience on which this draft law is based. After all, it had a three-year expiry clause for one reason: it would then make sense that during that period it evaluated what it actually had from the consequences, what is of experience and so on. What we can then see is that there are a number of organisations that say that this is very inappropriate. However, there is no analysis or evidence that it should have had a particular effect or done something particularly beneficial. So the rapporteur cannot say anything about where the experience of the rapporteur is being gained; what it is that shows that this has had a beneficial effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155051	Yes, I think that is a perfectly reasonable and good question, and I would, of course, very much like that. It is the case that the National Police made an assessment of this back in 2019, looking at the experiences of the Copenhagen Police and the Copenhagen Police Department, where the problems had been greatest from 2017 and 2018. And there was a gross decrease in the number of warnings, charges of begging and charges of insecure begging. The Copenhagen Police Department also states that repealing the rules may have a negative impact on this development. I think that is a very fine way of determining what the effect of this has been. That is also why we think it makes sense that the law can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155136	To my knowledge, the figures to which the rapporteur refers are something that was collected in March 2019. But what must of course be particularly interesting is the organizations that are closest to the homeless who suffer. The Gadejuristen describes in their hearing answer that there are homeless people with disabilities and other beggars who get caught under these rules without like having had some urging behavior or something. Is it appropriate, and is it good experience, when the Gadejuristen describes such concrete examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155212	If what the radical rapporteur thinks is that we should discredit the response that has come from the National Police in 2019, then we disagree with it. I mean, I'm quite confident that when the National Police base it and answer it, it's valid. And then it is clear that there may be different perceptions based on the experience one has. But I actually think it's very sober to use it as a basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155237	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155241	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus for the arguments and for the speech. I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether we have actually solved some problems with this so-called begging legislation. I mean, has it stopped homelessness? Are there no longer people in Denmark who need to beg a fiver for a cup of coffee? I would just like to hear from the Social Democrats whether this legislation has actually solved anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155315	In other words, if you look at this legislation in the context of what we have also done and which we are also looking at together, namely to remove some of these insecure camps and address the increasing challenge, which was of course also with an increasing number of homeless people who filled a lot in the street picture, then it has had an effect. Has it removed the problems of the homeless living on the streets? No, I don't think so. There are still challenges, and that is how Enhedslisten's rapporteur knows that it is certainly not our policy to chase the individual homeless around the streets, and that is why we have among other things. We also dealt with the question of when this camp is insecure and when it is not, and that is also out of respect for the fact that we have some homeless people who live that life for one reason or another and for which we are also trying to create a good framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155417	It may be good for me and the Enhedslisten, but probably also for others to stress that it is not the policy of the Social Democrats to hunt down the individual homeless. That is why I would just like to ask: why should we then have this legislation, which means that it has become criminal for a homeless person to beg 5 kroner. For a cup of coffee? In other words, there is now the possibility of that person being fined. It's for me to see a hunt for the individual homeless. I think it is nice if the Social Democrats have some ideas on how to prevent homelessness, but what is the Social Democrats' bid on how to make good legislation that does not chase the individual homeless? Because this is what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155501	I am very happy to discuss this, but I think it is a slightly larger discussion. Let us just put the prune on the counter: this is, after all, about the fact that some years ago we saw a situation where there were a large number of foreign homeless people who came in particular to Copenhagen and the big cities and that therefore there was a need to take action against it. We did so by making it forbidden to settle in permanent camps and commit various forms of crime. As far as what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says about begging a fiveer is concerned, begging is already banned today. This was about insecurity-building begging, and the punishment was tightened up and gave the opportunity to give a penalty without prior warning, and it was also to remove some of that pressure. The two laws plus other have had the effect that it has also taken some of the pressure of the homeless who are. We cannot and will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, but it is certainly no secret that it has had an effect in terms of taking action against the developments we experienced a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155559	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I would therefore like to welcome Mrs Inger Løjberg from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155608	Thank you. The legislative proposal here is about, just as the Socialist rapporteur said just now, whether we should maintain the rules that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament introduced in 2017, which means that the police should not give a warning first if people beg in the vicinity of, for example. metro stations and pedestrian streets, and that the punishment for begging as a starting point gives 14 days in jail in first case. The reason why we introduced the rules in 2017 was that both in the summer of 2016 and in 2017 in Copenhagen we saw a massive influx of homeless people from other countries, who established themselves in larger camps, and who lived by begging, among others. stations and on pedestrian streets. I remember clearly one day when I was out looking at some of these things and saw it for myself, but I also remember everything we saw at Trinitati's Church at the Rundetaarn, where a larger Roma camp had emerged in the church area and where church staff were eventually offered hepatitis vaccine because they had to go and clean up waste and excrement every morning after the camp's residents. It had simply reached a level where it was totally unacceptable at that time. They were simply a nuisance to their surroundings in the form of everything from noise and unrest to unsanitary sanitation, and it was very much the city's image. They were in Denmark for the sole purpose of feeding themselves at begging. And it created enormous insecurity for the citizens here in Copenhagen, but also in other large cities. Therefore, a broad majority in the Folketing introduced in the summer of 2017 a tightening of the penalty for begging together with among others. the possibility of banning these insecurity-building camps. The last two summers we have not seen the same problems with these camps, and the police have estimated that if we relax the rules, we risk the problem blazing again. Tightenings have also resulted in a number of broadcasts of people who just came here to Denmark to feed themselves at begging. In other words, the measures we introduced back in 2017 have worked. That, of course, is why we in the Left in no way want to go back to the situation before, and that is of course why we are supporting this bill. The Danes simply cannot be served with anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155921	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310155929	Thank you very much, President. It can be made relatively short. Of course, we support the proposal. The National Police have indicated that insecurity-building begging has been reduced, and that was also the intention of the bill. Then we must finally continue along that path. Now that we have this law, we in the Danish People's Party are thinking that we will probably be looking at some tightenings through some amendments. We need to work on that a little further. But for the time being, the bill certainly has our full support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160007	Thank you. No one has signed up for comments. Then the next sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160048	Thank you for the floor. There was once a parliament. The year was 2017. It was to hold a final debate on the political year that had passed and on what had been achieved. It could have been something that had been done for children, the elderly, the climate or the economy; it could have been what took up the debate and brought Parliament together. But no, on this day, when you looked back in a whole year, it was the homeless who stood for gunshots and gathered a majority. It was not about how to improve their situation, because when the day came and the sun had gone down, after a whole day of political discussions a year had gone by, suddenly the majority in the parliament, so that instead of giving the homeless a warning by begging in inappropriate places, they would have to be sent directly to prison. And instead of Parliament going on summer vacation as intended, the parliament was subsequently urgently called in for a bill on a new sentence for the homeless. This is probably how the future will write about the creation of this law. Whether it will be a happy end to the adventure or we will continue to hunt the homeless is up to us, but for the Radical Left it is clear: you have not chosen to be homeless yourself, and no one of your own free will has chosen to be begging; you do so out of need. That is why this is a social problem, and not something that can be solved by punishment. That is why we need to combat homelessness more than the homeless. As mentioned in the consultation answers from among others. The Church's Cross Army, there's a pretty arbitrary enforcement of this, and the Gadejuristen has concrete examples of how this law has been applied, for example, to people with disabilities or beggars who have sat quite quietly with their cup and didn't confront anyone. That is why we should have a more thorough evaluation of the extent and definition of insecurity-building begging before we simply remove this expiry clause, because, as the organisations state unanimously, there is not really any evidence of the effectiveness of the rule on this basis. There is too much faith and thought in the legal notes and too little fact. The UN has also criticised these rules, because begging can be life-sustaining for some of these people, and so it cannot be banned or punished. It is clear that everything about organised terrorism is not acceptable, but it is already within the category of organised crime or trafficking in human beings, and we would like to take part in this, but we will not solve any problem with this law. We'll push it around or most likely create a new one. That is why the Radical Left is voting against. We must fight homelessness, not the homeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160443	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160448	It's always interesting, isn't it? Kristian Hegaard claims facts. I don't think it's been a long time since we heard Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard says here in the Assembly Hall that border controls had only prevented slingshots and other petty things from coming in, while the rest of us know what the reality is. Now something similar is evident here, where I understand Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that this proposal does not reach the goal at all and that it is about getting people out of homelessness, and that they will then probably stop begging. It's always exciting like coming in behind the curtain in the radical sense of reality. I would like to ask Mr. Kristian Hegaard, if he has any idea what the nationality ratio is for the homeless living in Denmark. How many are we talking about, there are Danes and how many are we talking about, there are EU citizens from the other 26 countries? Did Mr. Kristian Hegaard has no idea about it, and it is also part of Mr. Kristian Hegaard's reflection on what this proposal might have of effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160543	All the views that emerge and all the facts are, of course, true every time the Radical Left decides on a particular matter. I am glad that the questioner is just mentioning this matter of border controls, because the Danish People's Party's claim that firearms had been found was very clearly rebutted by the Detector in that article. So there were many fine things that were uncovered in this, and I can, in fact, completely vouch for what I said in that debate, namely that no firearms had been found. There wasn't. On the other hand, slingshots and pepper sprays had been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160630	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160631	We must, of course, be careful not to mention references, because this naturally gives the rapporteur an opportunity not to answer the question. Then I'll have to put it a little more concretely. Well, sir. Kristian Hegaard agrees that the change of law that we adopted a few years ago has led to a dramatic decrease in the number of foreign beggars coming to Denmark? It has simply become less attractive for Romanian and Bulgarian and other Eastern European beggars to come to Denmark. And if sir... Kristian Hegaard accepts it as a fact, Mr. Kristian Hegaard also admits that the law has been effective?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160706	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there are no evaluations or studies which in any way document the impact of this law, and that is the problem. Then it is just as we grope in the blind, and there will be too much faith and vision in this debate, and that has great consequences for some of the people most at risk. When the Gadejuristen highlights examples of very vulnerable and vulnerable people who are arbitrarily exposed to this and who have not confronted anyone, that has consequences, and we must therefore evaluate this first before continuing with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160741	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF, next in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160753	Thank you for the floor. After all, the proposal here is that we should maintain the legislation that introduced tougher sanctions against begging. And if we do not pass the bill, the sanctions will fall away. I really do not disagree with the fact that there may be problems with begging. And I think, in particular, that there is a need for us to do more about the organised form of begging, where backers often take advantage of other people in a difficult situation to obtain income for themselves. In fact, I think that we need to tighten up that part of the legislation, and I think that this is something that should be considered in the next action plan against trafficking in human beings, because it is clear that this is a very unacceptable situation. But that's not what this bill is about. On the contrary, it cuts everyone apart. And I very much agree with the organisations SAND, the Institute of Human Rights, the Church's Cross Army and many others that this criminalises poverty when you give prison sentences for begging. I think it is a social problem and it should not be combated in legal terms. And then I'm probably gonna join the chorus that thinks it's a little awkward that we haven't had an evaluation before we start dealing with this proposal. I think that somehow we should have a more thorough debate on a proposal which has been so strongly discussed that a sunset clause has even been put on it. I suspect that it must remain a suspicion that it may not be exactly this legislation that has worked the most, but perhaps rather the one about insecure camps that have stressed some of these people out of town. And so perhaps we could discuss whether this bill was worth maintaining, but it is difficult to have that debate when no overall evaluation has been made. But there should be no doubt that we in the SF reject this proposal. We think it is a criminalisation of poor people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160953	Mrs Pernille Bendixen has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310160956	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that being poor and exposed is a social problem, that it is, in fact, something that falls within the scope of social legislation and does not really have anything to do with this legislation. Does the rapporteur think that we should stop legislating in criminal law because we have poor people in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161017	What I am saying is that I do not believe that this problem should be resolved in legal terms. We are dealing with some people who are poor and who are begging for a reason, namely that they have no income, and if they are foreign homeless people who drive around Copenhagen and cannot find out how to get home, then I think it would be much better to do what you did years ago, when you actually tried to help them back to the countries from which they came. Contacts were made with non-governmental organisations in Poland, Romania or wherever it was and made sure that these people also had something to go home to. For it is clear that drifting around Copenhagen and trying to have a life here, when you do not live here and are not subject to the ordinary legislation and thus cannot get that help, there are just some major challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161109	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161110	We agree that foreign beggars must of course be helped out of here... they have nothing to do here... but this bill, L 113, is not put in the world to fight poverty. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161124-2	Yes, I agree with that, but I think it has a parallel to the fight against poverty, because it is about poor people who are affected by this bill, and that is what I find problematic. In this way, I do not think we should use legal policy to combat a problem that is basically social.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161144	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161147	I assume, therefore, that the rapporteur is aware that this is not, of course, about whether it should be legal or illegal to beg in Denmark. This is about whether you should have a warning before you can be sanctioned for begging in Denmark. When the rapporteur makes this very passionate speech for the poor in Denmark, one might ask the question: does the SF, the Socialist People's Party, wish to remove the rule of the penal code which criminalises betlery? That would be an interesting announcement. I mean, does it all have to be moved into social legislation? I am quite sure that would spread very quickly in Eastern European circles, so that Denmark would once again become a magnet for the people who have chosen it as their way of life, all the time it is probably more deserving to trust in Denmark than it is in Bulgaria. So is that what the Socialist People's Party really wants, in other words, to eliminate the criminalisation of betlery altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161245	Well, in principle, I find it a little difficult to have this paragraph, but what makes it even more difficult is that you start putting people in prison for as long as you do with this proposal. This means that it will have consequences for the people it is about, and they will typically be poor. On the other hand, I have nothing to do with those who have probably also been responsible for organising this, and that is where I think the pressure should lie. We have not dealt with this at all. Instead, we stress those people who are actually at risk and may even be exploited by organized backers, and I just think that is completely wrong. I think we should have worked harder to go after the perpetrators who hold some of these people in an iron grip and maybe force them to beg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161335	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161336	I am quite convinced that there is a special legal basis for punishing backstabbers who are forcing people to settle for themselves, hopefully also with a completely different penalty framework, but that is not what we are talking about here, Mrs Lorentzen. What we are talking about here is whether people who are liable to be punished, sanctioned, expelled without warning. After all, the problem is that if you first have to have a warning and then move around the community and bet again, it may be quite difficult for the police to get it done: if you now know just if you have got a warning, when was it, it is out of date and so on.? What we are dealing with here is a much more effective tool for combating begging, which is why I just have to ask: is the Socialist People's Party's view fundamental that begging is something that should not be criminal in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161425-2	It is at least fundamental SF's view that when you start putting people in prison for something they do to sustain life, it is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161435	We thank Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, and then it is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161443	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we voted against this scheme when it was introduced in 2017. We can't support this bill either, and we can't do that because we can't see what this bill is going to solve. This bill, along with the camp ban and the zoning ban, helps criminalize homelessness. And we do not believe that in the Enhedslisten is the way forward. Homelessness is a social problem and therefore it must be solved socially; it is not something we can punish ourselves out of. In addition, I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Kristian Hegaard, when he points out the need for an evaluation of this before proceeding with it. When you read in the consultation answers from the organisations that work with homeless people on a daily basis, which are, after all, much closer to this issue than we are in here, you can see that they point out how many problems there are with this legislation, and I actually think we have to take that seriously. And that is why I think that at least we could ensure that we invited those organisations into a hearing and discussed with them how best to deal with homelessness in Denmark instead of just adopting this legislation. So we cannot support this legislation at all, and then I should like to welcome the alternative, which may have a rather difficult day today, and say that they cannot support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161615	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then it's mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Naser Khader is very happy to come to the platform instead of enjoying herself with young women. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161633	Thank you. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that you as a citizen of Denmark can feel safe when walking the streets. That is why we took a number of measures, the last time we were in government, to increase security in Danish society, including a tightening of penalties for insecurity-building begging. Unfortunately, we saw foreign visitors camping and begging, and this created insecurity for the people around us, and it is unacceptable that you are exposed to insecurity-building behaviour when you take a walk on Strøget, are on your way to the station or the like. Everywhere in our society, it is unacceptable to be exposed to insecurity-building behaviour. The Copenhageners experienced this at close quarters and action was called for. The Mayor of Copenhagen, Frank Jensen, was out to demand action, and therefore the legislation came in 2017. I therefore note with satisfaction that the Minister for Justice believes that the legislation has worked as intended. I also note that it is the government's view that repealing legislation could increase the extent of insecurity-building begging in pedestrian streets, at stations or at supermarkets or in public transport. It therefore makes very good sense to repeal the expiry clause. That is why we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161804	No one has signed up with short remarks, so thank you to Mr Simpson. Naser Khader. Then we shall move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310161823	Thank you for the floor. Foreign beggars are now a well-known sight in many European cities, and some years ago we saw the problem spread in Copenhagen as well. I met a Greenlander myself at Nørreport Station a few years ago, who called me when I came by. Then he says: Pernille, Pernille. I thought it might be me. I'm gonna stop and think what he wants. Then he told how insecure it was as Danish homeless, now with Greenlandic background, but as Danish homeless to be in Denmark under conditions where foreign, I wouldn't say gangs, but homeless in large groups made it really, really difficult for Danish homeless to live the life they lived. I embraced it as a rather violent experience. Then it went a while, and I was on a Saturday night on my way home from town, coming to Østerport Station and again having the honour to meet a Danish homeless person who is lying on a piece of cardboard. It was 4:00 in the morning, and it was freezing, and then I'll tell him if he doesn't need a bed. I knew it was a little long with the coast track up to me, but my kids weren't home, and he could have a nursery. He wouldn't, he didn't dare, and he just had such bad experiences of trusting someone, and then he told the same story, not because he thought I was a foreign homeless, but he told me that he didn't dare live in the shelters in Copenhagen because they were ravaged by foreign homeless people. Now that we have a situation where the police say that this problem has been reduced and that the begging, which also creates insecurity for many other Danes, has been reduced because of this legislation, I think it is perfectly natural to say that of course the legislation must be maintained, because that must mean that the legislation works. That is why New Citizens' Bill supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162037	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162046	One of the events which led specifically to the original adoption of this law was the occupation, one might almost say, of the church square in front of Trinitati's Church in Copenhagen, which for a long period was occupied by foreign beggars, who used the square in front of Trinitati's Church, i.e. the church of which the Round Tower is part, as a campsite. There are no toilets, so those problems were handled around the corners, and food was left behind, and this led to rat plague, and the problem was so great that the staff at Trinitati's Church were in danger of health, and there were difficulties for them in maintaining general order. At the same time there was a wave of crime going through inner Copenhagen, as the police said of course also had something to do with this camp. It was not the only thing that led to the law being passed, but it was events such as those that led to the adoption of the law here in 2017. The law has worked, at least in relation to the situation around Trinitati's Church in Copenhagen, and the police also say that the law has worked in general. These problems, which create insecurity and create a serious health risk for employees working in the area, and for people moving in the area, have been largely remedied by this law. That is why, of course, it is a good and sensible law, and it is sensible to continue it, and of course we support it in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162232	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162243	Thank you for the very broad support for the bill. It is important, as has also been mentioned, that the Danes can feel safe in public spaces, and therefore, of course, we also have a desire to continue to be able to overcome the insecure begging. The draft law, as has also been mentioned, is intended to maintain the punishments for insecure begging adopted under the previous government. With the legislative proposal that was made at the time, there was an expiry clause, and that is what we must repeal, otherwise it would mean that the punishments would automatically end on 1 July of this year. If we do not lift the expiry clause, this will mean, first of all, that after 1 July of this year there will again be a requirement for prior warning as a condition for punishment for begging committed in pedestrian streets, at stations, in or at supermarkets or in public transport. The demand for a prior warning was then abolished in order to allow the police to take effective action against begging. Secondly, this will mean that the penalty for begging committed in those places will again have to be meted out according to the previously applicable level of punishment, which, as a starting point, is conditional imprisonment for seven days. It is the government's opinion that the punishments have had a positive effect on combating insecurity-building begging and that lifting the claim could increase the extent of insecurity-building begging. That is why the legislative proposal will ensure that the positive effect is maintained, even after 1 July of this year. With those comments, I should like to thank you once again for your speeches. I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162433	Thank you. Two have so far signed up for brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162438	Thank you for the Minister's speech. One of the criticisms, both when the bill was first tabled in 2017, and now that this proposal has been put forward, is that there is a very unclear definition of what insecurity-building is really about. I would just like to know whether the Minister agrees that there is not a very clear definition of what constitutes insecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162513	No, I don't agree with that. I think that with the regulation there is and with the application of the regulation as has been done, it is fairly clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162521	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162522	If the Minister thinks that there is a clear definition of insecurity-building trust, will the Minister not make that definition out of the Chair, read it out, say it out loud or in some way get closer? Then we can sort of close that case already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162538-2	Well, there's no need to close a case, because that's clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162544	Thank you, we'll tell the Minister of Justice. No, Mrs. Rosa Lund just made it back at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162555	I thought I'd pressed in time. I'm sorry. I just need to hear the Minister for Justice, if it doesn't impress the Minister, when all the organisations that have a day-to-day life together with the homeless, who have a day-to-day life around these people, advise against making this legislation. They're asking for an evaluation. They're asking you not to pass this bill. Doesn't that impress the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162624	Hearing answers always make an impression. I think it is only fair to say that the objective that we want to achieve here, namely to remove the insecurity-building begging, is a goal that is more important to the very, very broad majority in the Folketing, which will adopt the law than it does for those organisations. I think that some of the concerns expressed by the organisations can be met in other ways, namely how we deal with the social aspects of begging.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162651	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162653	Well, I agree that there are many social aspects to this, and that is also why I am surprised that the Socialist-led government is continuing the policy of the previous government to take social policy into the Ministry of Justice. Because I don't think punishing oneself out of these problems that we're facing is gonna help. Then I would just like to hear what the Minister for Justice's initiatives are in order to meet some of these organisations when the Minister for Justice himself says that there is something here that needs to be resolved socially. What can the Minister of Justice himself do, other than just pass it on to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162729	Well, in reality, it's not that much, because it's just not my resort. What I can take care of is what is the Justice Department's resort, including ensuring security, and that's what we're doing with this bill. In our conversations, which we have together, among other things. There is, of course, a recognition of the fact that there are also social conditions which need to be regulated here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162753	And then we say thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162825	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310162837	Thank you. It is wonderful to be back after a stay on maternity leave and to discuss how our children and young people can become as skilled as possible, how they can thrive as well as possible, and then even with a finding that my good colleagues have been industrious while I have been away, and have made another agreement on how to move forward in terms of improving our evaluation and assessment methods in primary school, and have made an agreement on the national tests. When we in the Social Democratic Party look at what we have to do, we think it is extremely important to ensure not only that our children become skilled and thriving, but also that we get everyone on board, and that is an independent point that, of course, we need to know whether there is quality in our schools, whether the professional levels are actually sufficiently high. That is why it has been good in this regard to have been better managed with the national tests, that a steering tool has been created which could, like, give us a picture of how things were going. But it is also clear that we can see that the evaluation that has been made shows that there are some challenges with the tests we have had they are too bad to say anything about how teachers can use the results that come to actually improve the teaching and lift the class further, and they are too imprecise, compared to what they say about the individual student's professional level. Then there have also been some unfortunate trends that not least some of the smallest pupils have felt pressured by the test situation where they had to perform at a very specific time. We in the Social Democratic Party are, of course, very pleased that we now have an agreement that is both trying to deal with what needs to be done in the short term and also laying down principles for what needs to be done in the long term. What we are adopting today is about what is going to happen in the short term, and I should like to say straight away that and all my fellow Members will also know that it is in the short term and so quickly that we did not have a full parliamentary consultation process and all those things, and therefore there will be things in the process here that we will have to correct while we are discussing it in committee, but we would like to ensure that the schools are in fact getting a better starting point right now, when they are going to start the tests. So most schools are given the opportunity not to hold the test, that is to say it will be voluntary, and on the 20%. schools that do the worst, we stick to the test, and that is, in fact, because we want to ensure that some of the pupils who most need us to be aware of whether it is going in the right direction are also supported by this. Then we must also improve the existing tests as quickly as we can at all, and finally, with the Social Democrats' spectacles, it is a huge gain that we are really building a bridge between the sometimes rather polarised positions that have been in the debate, where some have thought we should get rid of all kinds of tests, evaluations, ratings and grades, while others have said that we should not change anything. What I think the parties deserve praise for is that with this agreement they actually meet in the middle and say that what we have to do instead is something where we have a steering tool, that is to say an overview of how things are going in the primary school, whether we are on the right path • you can do that without testing all the students in the school • but at the same time also say: How can we also raise the educational use of the tests so that teachers, when they take them off the shelf, think they make sense in terms of how they should support their pupils' learning? So I really think that the principles of the further work described in the agreement are very good, and I would like to acknowledge that the parties have shown their willingness to make a scheme at quite short notice and rather quickly, which means that in this school year we do not have to go through a series of tests that we do not think are good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163246	So far, two have signed up. The first is sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163251	First of all, welcome back from maternity leave. I know that the rapporteur has not taken part in the negotiations, so I would like to ask carefully. I simply do not understand how it has been achieved that the tests measure so uncertainly that the country's pupils will not be exposed in general to the tests being carried out here in March and April. But exactly in the schools where the students have done the worst in Danish and mathematics, one still thinks that the students should undergo a test. Is this one of the points the rapporteur suggests that perhaps something could happen in the legislative process? Is this one of the places where we could imagine that something happened in the legislative process, so we also exempted the 20%? from carrying out the national tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163343	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163345	I believe, based on what I have heard from various parties, that we are going to discuss how to ensure that it is the right 20%, i.e. those who have a challenge that is like being tested here. We would be happy to accept that. First of all, I think that one of the misunderstandings about the national tests is that you think that because, for example, they do. is too bad to say anything about the individual student's level, then they cannot be used to say anything about how things are going in general or more aggregated. That is why we can actually learn something from the national tests, and it can be said that we have special attention to some schools that have done badly. There we have to keep an eye on whether we are really going in the right direction. That is why we are maintaining it. But when we have said that we want to do it voluntarily, it is because we also want to improve those tests, and when we go into that recognition, it is of course clear that the compromise has been that most schools should then be exempted. The places where we have, if I may say so, especially the need to pay attention, we maintain the test. And I would like to maintain that the validity of those tests is significantly different at an aggregated level than at the individual level, and that is why they can be used for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163457	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163458	With this argument, I understand that I do not agree with a view to taking out a wide range of schools in order to have something to measure up to. I don't think that's a good idea. But I can understand that. But exactly here compared to the 20%. of the schools, where the students do the worst in mathematics and Danish, I do not understand it. Does it not impress the rapporteur that in fact all the school's stakeholders warn against doing so? Parents warn against taking out the 20%, teachers do it, school leaders do it, and the National Association of Municipalities does it. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163541	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163543	Everything makes an impression. I'm gonna get a little confused, because sir... Jakob Silverhøj mentions that he can understand that you take out some to create a baseline, or what you could say a starting point, a basis for comparison, and that is something other than the 20%. After all, those whom the Minister of Education wants to take out must cover the whole spectrum and be representative, so that we get an expression of what the overall level is, so that we have something to measure up to. When we have made the agreement we have made in the conciliation circle on the 20% that has done the worst, it is of course on the basis that they are 20%. In fact, we feel that there is particular reason to be aware of. And yes, it is our ambition to make an even better evaluation and testing system forward for all the schools, but we also need to pay attention during the transition period to those schools which, if we may say so, have been at the bottom and have done the worst, because there we have a special responsibility to ensure that it goes the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163642	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163644	Thank you. I would also like to welcome Mr. Jens Joel. The rapporteur is, of course, apologized for not having been involved in the negotiations and thus perhaps not having all the details of the agreement fully in place. I heard in the rapporteur's speech that it was said that you can do these national tests forward without testing all children. As I read the agreement and as I understand the agreement, we have an exception this year, testing a group for overall results, but not testing all children. But from next year again we test, as we usually do, all children. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that that is what applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163726	I would say that this is not due to my maternity leave; it must be due to my inability to formulate myself clearly, because I fully agree with it, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl says here. What I was trying to say was that you can evaluate, you might say, the general level • how the primary school goes without testing all children. We can use the steering gear. This is what is imagined when the Minister of Education appoints some representatives. But it is quite true what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl says that the exception only applies this year, and when we enter a new and better evaluation system, it is also an evaluation system that must be applied in all schools. But it will also be an evaluation system which will benefit from teaching and where we will have corrected some of the errors that have been made with the current tests. So it can be said that we do not envisage a situation in which we should not be evaluated and assessed in the primary school in the future, and therefore we can say that it is a matter of getting it done better than we are doing today. And then the concrete proposal is that this year we have a special transitional regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163834	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163837	I just need to be very clear about this, because part of the agreement is that a new system needs to be developed, as the rapporteur also mentions. Then I just wonder whether we too can agree that the concept of the system we are going to develop means that it is a system that will cover all the children in the Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163858	Yes, but not with the national tests we have today. I therefore believe that we do not disagree on what we should do, but of course we must have a basis for keeping the results we then get in the individual schools up to what might have been expected. And that's what you do, by making it, you can say, controlling cut and having the representative chosen ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163925	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163927	Thank you very much, President. I would actually like to ask something a little different in this context, and indeed welcome back from maternity leave. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that as a teacher in schools you have the opportunity to use different tests to make sure that the pupils are at a sound professional level and that, if they do not, you can follow up on what is teaching at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310163955	The truth is that a great many of the things that we would like to see done, there are plenty of teachers who do in advance. That is why it is sometimes a question of ensuring that, if you may say so, there are the right tests on the shelves that you can take down and use in your teaching, when you find it relevant, or when the management finds it relevant, or when the parents ask questions about how things are going. Well, it would typically be the teacher himself, but it could be all kinds of things at school. I think it does exist, but one of the problems with the national tests has been that teachers did not actually feel it contributed; it was not some of the tests they had on the shelf that they thought were good at telling them how to move on. These are some of the things we need to do better. One of the things they have been able to do is that they have told us something about what the development is in primary school, and we must retain that while doing something that the teachers will take down from the shelf, because they actually think it makes sense and give them a picture of what they can do for their pupils, but also where the students are located in purely professional terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164059	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164100	Thank you. Well, I'm a teacher myself, and I know it already exists. One has as a teacher plenty of opportunities to use one's professionalism and use a lot of tests, which already lie there, whether it's for Danish reading or spelling, or whether it's for mathematics, or whether it's for something else. There are plenty of opportunities in schools already now. So why is it that the rapporteur believes that it is necessarily the politicians in here at Christiansborg who have to make an overall test system and that it is not possible to put it out to the individual school and the professionals who are in the schools to do these tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164138	Now I think that there would be some of the tests around the schools that have been developed centrally and/or in cooperation between different municipalities. Well, it's not the individual teacher who has to develop all the tests. What is important to us in addition to the fact that you as a teacher have the opportunity to take tests from the shelves, which can give a picture of what is happening in the class and how to improve it, is that we also want a comprehensive picture of how things are going in primary school as such. And that is the steering tool that we would be missing if we just scraped the national tests. That is why we have been concerned that it is not either gone with the national tests and all that is involved, or hold onto the national tests as we know them today. The reason here is that we like to say that the management part of the development is what is in the primary school; the national overview we still want to preserve. This can then be done in other ways than we do today, and we will aim for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164236	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164238	Thank you. I would also like to welcome back from maternity leave. I would like to follow up on the question raised by my colleague Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl asked about the system we need to move forward. That is, of course, not what the draft law says, but it is a fundamental part of the text of the agreement. It is also just that it has to be clear, because I think it might have been a little unclear in the rapporteur's reply that the system we have agreed should be in force in the future, is a system that covers all pupils in the Danish primary school. We do not decide what the free primary schools do and not a representative sample, whereas in the bill we are debating today, where a sunset clause is quite rightly introduced in July, a representative sample is drawn in addition to the 20%. the worst performing pupils. It is just to make sure that we fully agree that what we have agreed must be done in the future and, as I heard was what was asked about, is a test and evaluation system that includes all pupils in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164338	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164340	Yes, what we have agreed must be done forward-looking, which, incidentally, is not what we are discussing today, and what I was trying to say is that we must be able to do something in terms of governance, and that is what I am saying, that we can do with the help of a representative sample, but it is not the same as not wanting to measure all students against what is going on in a purely representative way. I mean, I'm not sure I understand what the conflict is. If Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby asks whether all pupils in primary school should be assessed after this year, then the answer is yes. That's what we've agreed to... they all have to be judged. But we haven't agreed with the test, because it's the one we're going to develop together, and we've agreed that the principles here are about us being able to manage, so see how things are going with the primary school and all the students in Denmark, in relation to how they develop, while at the same time being able to apply it better pedagogically than what has been the case so far, where the teachers didn't think that the national tests contributed to their educational work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164448	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164449	Thank you. It is quite true that we have not just developed a new test like that. We can also see that it will take 3-5 years if we look at how long it took last and if we follow VIVE's recommendations. That is also why we are now making some adjustments to the national tests and have just decided not to suspend the national tests, and we will then only take a representative sample this year. However, with regard to the system we need to move forward, we have agreed on some principles for it: principles that escape with the way in which we carry out the national tests today, namely that it is all pupils in the primary school who are included, of course, in selected years and that it is not a representative test system, but that it is an all-encompassing test system, precisely to ensure that all pupils in the primary school get through, also in the future system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164540	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164542	Yes, that is true, and I do not think I have said that we should not evaluate and assess all students. I have said that we must also do so in a way that we can actually gain an educational benefit from it. But we need to be able to keep track of what is going on in primary school, and it is not the case that if you go to some particular school, you can fall completely through the system forward-looking. I agree with the rapporteur of the Left, so I am not sure I understand what the conflict is. But yes, it is true that it will include all students.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164619	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164621	Thank you. I should like to ask the rapporteur: do you agree with me that the children most often squeezed by the national tests are the academically weak pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164640	The rapporteur is to be indicted in the third person rather than directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164642	Thank you. I think there are patterns in who's best at dealing with these situations. But there are also some patterns in who actually needs the most to know where they lie. That is one of the reasons why we in the Social Democratic Party think it is quite important to have an assessment. For some of those who are best at assessing whether they are on track, in fact some of them are also with a strong home background. Therefore, there may be an unfortunate tendency, if assessments and evaluations are removed and feedback given to the students, that we then actually lose some of those that we most need to lift because they cannot self-evaluate. So there are several different challenges in this. But that is the reason why we want to maintain an assessment and evaluation of the pupils. It's just to avoid this. However, we have also discussed the unfortunate consequences of the national tests, which is why we want to change them and improve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164741	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164743	Thank you. However, it makes sense for the rapporteur to choose to say that those who will continue to be tested are 20%. of the weakest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164754-2	In fact, I am not sure that we can say statistically that this is what we are doing. Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen said just now that those who are most challenged in a class may be under the greatest pressure. It's not like we're picking 20% of them all over the country. out, which has been under the greatest pressure. After all, we are taking the schools that have performed badly, and there will be those who are both professionally strong and those who are less professionally strong. But that is because we would like to focus on those schools which, if I may say so, have been in the worst company in terms of delivering at professional levels. So it's like two different statistical things we're aiming at here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164843	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel from the Social Democratic Party, and then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310164900	Thank you. With the bill we are discussing today, we basically make it clear with seven-inch nails that we are now a wide section of the Danish Parliament's parties, ensuring that we also have a national test, evaluation and assessment system in the Danish primary school in the future. It is an evaluation and evaluation system which includes all pupils, of course in selected years, as we know it today, but of course also a national testing and evaluation system, which must be fair both at individual level but also as a management tool. It must be used and be able to be used as an educational tool as well as to manage and ensure that we do not have pupils who are overlooked in a school context, or schools that fall through professionally. This has been very important for the Left, because it is important to ensure professionalism both for the individual pupil and also for all pupils and for our primary school as a whole. It is important that we do not overlook pupils in classes, pupils who sometimes also find it difficult to get rid of the letters and numbers. It is the students who, as such, are entitled to meet skilled and competent teachers who see them and meet them in everyday life and help them break the reading code, but also find places where there may be blind spots. And we know there can be. Test and evaluation systems, both those which have been chosen locally, but also those which have been established nationally, can help to ensure that we discover the professional challenges that may exist early in a process. Precisely so early that we can also do professional work so that we can support and so that we can help to raise the professional skills of all students in the Danish primary school. That is why we introduced the national tests at the time, and that is why we in the Left continue to support the need for a strong evaluation and assessment system in the Danish primary school. Because we have to raise all students professionally, and we have to form and educate all students in the Danish primary school. That is also why we think it is important that we do not put anything on hold, as there are parties that had argued, but that we also insist, with our agreement, that, in the run-up to the development of a new test, evaluation, rating system, dear child, we also have many names to follow in the professional results at school level, but also at national level. About the national tests in their current form, the evaluation that was carried out while we were in government shows that they are not strong enough to be true when we look at the individual level. Of course, we need to respond to that. That is why I would also like to thank good colleagues in the Danish Parliament who have helped to make the broad agreement we have made in the public school circle in order to get it right. But it also shows that they have actually worked well as a management tool, both at school level, class level, for that matter at municipal and national level. It is also perfectly legitimate to have the wish as a school politician that we can also ensure professional development in our primary school and that we have a steering tool to make the national comparison. This does not mean that it should then be a poor educational tool, and that is why we must also look at whether a forward-looking evaluation and assessment system can both be in one or whether we should perhaps have more elements. But it is important that there is transparency both for the individual pupil and the parents, but also for those who have to answer and ensure that we do not lose pupils in the Danish primary school. That is why we in the Left also think, and it is important, with both the representative class, which will have to undergo the national tests this year, but also in relation to the extracts of the 20 per cent worst performing schools, that we who insist that the municipalities, which are, after all, those who run the primary school, are also responsible in relation to the primary schools which perform the worst professionally. It must not be the case that we simply say that we did, but now we did not get any clear results, so we can wait a little longer. We must constantly ensure that our ambitions, especially for the schools that perform the worst, are increased. And, of course, we must ensure that the new evaluation and assessment system is both a reliable test system and a reliable educational tool that makes sense in the daily lives of our teachers and our teaching staff, and which can also ensure proper and correct feedback to parents and students. We can do that next year. We can gather profile areas to increase significance. We may be able to scrap the dialogue column in Danish and replace it with a reading test that can clarify text understanding and decoding, and perhaps, when we look into the forward-looking system, we should also move from an adaptive system to a linear principle on the pedagogical part. These are the issues and the things we are about to discuss, but here and now we need to ensure that the national tests towards next spring are more accurate and clear and that this year we will have the evaluation that shows that they are not working properly as they stand today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165411	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. No one has signed up for comments or questions, so we need to move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165428	Thank you. National tests? Are we going or are we not going? The discussion flies back and forth, and there are many different attitudes about how much we need to test and why we need to test. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party want to have tests. We want to have national tests and we want to have tests that say something about the abilities and position of each child. The bill we are discussing today is about our national test. It is about us having an evaluation of the test, which says it can't quite as much as we thought it could. We thought that the test could at once give a picture of the national level, the municipal level, the level of the individual school, the individual class, and also the level of the individual child. Now the evaluation shows that it can do most, but that it is not valid in relation to the individual child. The discussion has then gone on what we are doing here and now. We have a political agreement that there should be national tests, so there is absolutely no discussion in this context. We also agree that there are some challenges with the current tests that make us want to develop a new test. But what do we do until we get that test? In the Danish People's Party we would have preferred to have seen that we had continued the current test until we had the new test and that we had failed to send the results to the parents, that is, the solution that can be chosen locally this year in relation to this bill. But the crucial thing for the Danish People's Party has been that we do not get a gap in the national data by completely canceling the tests for one or more years. That is why we are also very pleased with the agreement we have made, which is the basis for the present legislative proposal. This year we ensure that they 20%. The worst performing schools are being tested and, in addition, we are testing a representative amount of schools so that we get national data for 2020. There is one small thing, and this legislation has gone very fast: that I can see when I read the comments on the bill that it says that you have to test the 20%. The 9th classes, i.e. the schools where you have had the 20 per cent. at least 9th grade last time. This means that schools without superstructure will not be tested. We have had a discussion on this, and I am glad that we have received a statement from the Minister that it was a misunderstanding and that of course it is 20%. of all schools to be tested, i.e. 20%. the worst performance of all schools. I am sure the Minister will be able to confirm this when the Minister goes to the platform later on. From next year, the tests shall be carried out again in full scale with the current test in an adjusted form. There are various improvements which will, of course, be made before it is to be used again next year. But then we again have a test from next spring that can be applied to all children. In relation to the new test, we hope that a national test can be developed that can be used at all levels from the individual child to the national level. But it is important to say that if it is not possible, it is crucial for the Danish People's Party that national tests are valid at the aggregated level, that is to say that we have national results, we can compare year after year, so that we can see how things are going in the municipalities and how things are going in the schools, so that you have a tool in the individual municipality, so that you can assess how things are going in the individual school, how things are going in the individual class. And we would very much like, if possible, to have it so that the same tool can be used in relation to looking at the individual child. But the question is how well it can be done. Otherwise, we'll have to have different tests. Right now it is important that we get started on this year's test, and then we look forward to the development of the new test. We have agreed that we should try to make an agreement on the new test this year. I look forward very much to the negotiations and am excited to see how good a test we can do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165818	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165819	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We in the Left fully agree with the rapporteur in the part about the fact that we must not create a system now that we are overlooking some of the schools that do not have the superstructure. Because it is important that we also focus on the students while they are very small. You can see that when, for example, you see that. has been on a board of directors at a dyslexic post-school where you receive pupils who have not even been diagnosed with dyslexia and then end up in an 8th and 9th grade post-school. And once that is where they actually get the relevant help, it has to be said that they have gone to school for a very, very long time without receiving the support and assistance they need. That is why it is important that we also look at things from the start and can take action from the outset, and I think the rapporteur has said this very precisely. I would like to ask the rapporteur a matter which I know has been important to the rapporteur's party and which has also been important to my own party, namely that we now also have a process in which we can involve all the parties in the primary school in a forward-looking system, so that we can hopefully ensure that we have a system that everyone feels they can support. And that is why I have just one question about the consultation period that is now up to the summer break: can the rapporteur say anything about what he hopes to get out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310165935	Well, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby says, it is also part of the agreement that we must have the parties involved. And one can say that some of what has been the discussion in connection with the old test has been a criticism, in terms of how to use it in the individual class • how to use it as a teacher, how to use it at different levels. And in order to counter that criticism, we think it is really important that we take in all parties and take in all parties an oath as to what the new test should be able to do and how we get the best possible test out of this. So, yes, I very much look forward to it being done and that in this way we will have a good basis for developing the test that will replace the current national test.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170015	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170018	We in the Left fully agree with that, so it is extremely important that we also have a co-ownership in relation to the forward-looking evaluation and assessment system in the primary school, so that hopefully we can move from having very polarised discussions to having a width here, which I actually experience was the spirit of the broad agreement we have made, so that we have to have transparency about how things are going in our primary school. I have a question in relation to pupils and also to transparency at the level of pupils, because that is something that is being put on hold now and in which we have discussed a little back and forth whether it is important that we also know our own position. There I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think it is important that we also stick to it as an essential parameter for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170104	Well, there is no discussion at all that any of what causes frustration in connection with a test system is, of course, if you are tested and you do not get any results you can use for anything, but neither can you relate to the test and the results you get. So the happiest system will be a system where you can say that there is full transparency at all levels and that it is useful at all levels. And I think that must be the overall objective for all of us in what we are about to do. What I said was that it is also absolutely crucial that it can be used nationally, and that was also a bit of what the discussion that was earlier with the Socialist rapporteur was about: that we want a system that tests all children so that we get the overall national pool of results and so that we can broadly follow how things are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170145	We thank the Danish People's Party and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. And then it's Mrs. Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170152	Thank you. February 21st this year was a special day. Here, the Minister of Education and all the rapporteurs from the conciliation circle around the primary school published a new agreement to improve the possibilities for society as such, with all the different stakeholders, to understand how things are going in primary school. And that is what is meant to be, because we all have the right to know how things are going in our common primary school. But the reason why we went out with an agreement on 21 February this year was, of course, that an evaluation had been carried out, among other things. VIVE, an abbreviation for what is called the National Centre for Social Science Research and Analysis. And in that evaluation VIVE pointed out that the national tests are not or were not suitable to assess the professional level at student level. And I have to say that it was actually a huge surprise for me that it came out in the evaluation • although as politicians and users of the primary school in different contexts we have the feeling that it is unreadable. And in any case, when you talk about teachers, it is very difficult for them to use the national tests and the results of them to organise the work of the class with regard to the individual pupils. And that is why I was genuinely shocked that it came out as clearly as it did. So, on behalf of the system, I am sorry that parents of children in primary school, year after year, have received an envelope in which each student's results are indicated, even if it is not possible to provide information. It is 600,000 letters a year that have been sent out that is the order of magnitude. Therefore, there is also reason to rejoice now that we are taking a new approach and that we are doing so together. I would like to express this warmly on behalf of the Radical Left. And we would like to welcome the fact that it is relevant school partners who help to clarify what is needed and how one could imagine that we could have a new system, which one might call a new evaluation and assessment system. I am also very pleased that the conciliation circle is agreed to work on this renewal and that this is a joint task for us. And all the work we did together in the winter months, and which resulted in the agreement we could publish on 21 February, is based on the fact that we actually found each other and what was the objective for us and what was the idea of creating a new system, a new tool. When I and Radicals are in favour of this, it is because it is my opinion that this is the case and I would like to argue in favour of the fact that society, school and parents have the right to know how pupils' professional skills in primary school develop. And we also have the right to know it in a way that allows us to compare it, because it can create an insight into where it is that needs to be seized and where something more needs to be done than has been done otherwise. And it may be from primary school, or it may be from society or from the political side, that you have to come up with new tools or help in some way. We don't know about that yet. We'll discuss it at the time. Then I will just finish by saying that the new evaluation and assessment system, which we will be working on to achieve, must be a new tool, which among other things. create transparency for parents and pupils in relation to the professional position of pupils and, above all, support educational work in the classrooms. And I'm really glad that we agree is what drives us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170549	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left. No one has signed up to short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170603	Thank you. There should of course be no doubt that we in the SF are opposed to national tests, as are many teachers, parents and educators for that matter. Teachers cannot use this as an educational tool, it is said, and the tests are pushing our children and especially the smallest. Not only did the latest evaluation report show that the results at student level are associated with really great uncertainty, which really cannot be used at anything around the students' professional level. For us, the national tests are meaningless. We were therefore very pleased that these could be suspended until a new evaluation tool is developed, which should be in close cooperation with teachers and school leaders. But to put a total stop there was not a majority in favour in the conciliation circle, but we actually thought we would have liked to have had that. But on the other hand, we have landed in a good agreement despite a good agreement that makes these national tests voluntary for the majority of Danish schools, an agreement that abolishes the national test system in its present form in the future. We look forward to the national tests, as we know them today, being scrapped and, instead, developing an educational tool that can actually be used. For us in SF it is important that this is done in collaboration with teachers, managers, students and educators. Is this deal so perfect in SF's eyes? No, it's not. We would have liked the national tests to be made totally voluntary for all schools, as it now stands, so that no children and teachers should be forced to carry out the test while we are working. I know from Jacob Mark, who negotiated the agreement home, that it was not easy to reach agreement. This is an agreement that shows that we have reached a compromise that we are actually proud of, not only because we in the SF are getting closer to fulfilling another election promise, but also because this is going to make a huge difference to our children and our teachers throughout the country. For SF, this is a milestone in Danish school policy and we vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170829	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170833	Thank you. To that point of the milestone: that is how far we agree. And we have also made a joint agreement. But I have to say that we in the Left believe that the milestone is that there is in fact now a wide range of parliamentary parties, including the SF, which now agree that we must have a national evaluation and evaluation and testing system in the Danish primary school. Well, that's kind of the big change: that SF has now committed itself to developing a new system in this area. Because that is what the SF has been opposed to. And that is why I am actually a little puzzled by the rapporteur's speech that the SF has now received one of their demands that there should not be a national test system in the Danish primary school. I mean, because it's kind of the opposite we've agreed. We have agreed, it has to be there in an adjusted form until we have a new form, and then it has to be there in the future. That is why I just want to know whether the rapporteur is running out of the agreement or whether SF supports the need for an evaluation system covering all pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310170940	Anyway, we're gonna take a look at a deal now. We haven't approved anything yet, so let's see what we can agree on. For us, the most important thing right now is that we trust the teachers and those who work around our primary school and work together. And then we'll have to see if that's something we can back up. But we hope we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171000	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171003	Thank you. That's not what we agreed. In other words, we have agreed that a new system should be developed, not that we should talk about developing a new system. In fact, we have set up some very tight deadlines for how quickly we need to develop a new system, and also with a desire, among other things. from my own party and other parties, that we will also have a broad involvement and consultation of the parties to the primary school in order to hopefully create a co-ownership for it. But there is no doubt that we have agreed that a new system should be developed. In the political agreement we have made, we have also given each other a handshake that a conciliation party cannot block other parties from moving forward. And that means, of course, that we have made an agreement that also ensures that we have a national evaluation system forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171043	I'm gonna have to say yes to that. SF is part of this agreement and hopes that we can reach an agreement. But, as I have said, it is Jacob Mark who is negotiating on this one, and of course we have a number of demands that Jacob has and that must be included in this agreement so that we can see ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171102	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulsen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171104	Thank you. I need to hear the rapporteurs about something. Now the rapporteur has not been involved in the negotiations, so it is understandable that we do not know all the details. However, the paper states that the parties to the agreement agree that in future there must also be a national evaluation and assessment system which, like today, covers pupils in the primary school broadly and not only is randomly based, as proposed in the transitional arrangements below. So that it should cover widely; like the current national test system, the future system must also do so. Will the rapporteur confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171137	I'm not quite keen on exactly that agreement there when you mention these words, but I'm sure SF will go into this deal and be ready to negotiate if we get the right partners with. Or when we get them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171151	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171154	Well, I'm a little puzzled. Because we have an agreement here that describes what we need to do. So this is not a negotiation. We have agreed that this is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171207	And I'm quite sure SF is ready to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171209	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171219	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that it is a good thing that the criticism that has been directed at national tests for a very long time is finally being responded to. This is a criticism which probably extends back to the adoption and, at least, from the entry into force of the national tests more than ten years ago. The criticism has been both very fundamental in relation to the whole thinking about the national tests and the way it has led to a teaching to the test culture. That is also acknowledged by everyone in the evaluation committee. It is a criticism which has been more practically directed at the fact that the tests used were actually measured so imprecisely that they were not useful, at least in relation to their use by teachers. I think it can be said that the response time of changing ministers of education has been long. It had been a long time in the public school circle, but I would also like to say that, fortunately, there has now been movement. We are pleased about this, and we are also pleased that it is not in all the schools in the country that pupils will have to carry out national tests in the coming weeks, the results of which are so uncertain that they cannot be used by teachers and do not need to be submitted to parents. I also think it is a good thing that a thorough discussion of the evaluation and evaluation system in the primary school is being undertaken, and I hope that the terms laid down in the political agreement do not prejudice the possibility of achieving satisfactory solutions in advance. I would also like to say that the Enhedslisten is very happy to take part in the political discussions on what should be replaced by the current national test system, and we hope that the discussion to be held will not be limited to a closed public school group. I hear and I am delighted that the school partners will be actively involved, and I hope that it is also the case that the democratic debate will be spread out so that it will include all the parties of the Folketing. In relation to the specific proposal we are discussing here, as I said, we are pleased that it is voluntary for the majority of the country's primary schools to have to carry out the national tests here in March and April. However, given that there is now a recognition that the results are so uncertain that they are not useful to teachers and parents and pupils, we do not actually understand what I suggested in a question to Mr. Jens Joel earlier said that you didn't take the consequences and put the tests completely on hold. Not least, we find it strange that it is precisely the pupils in the schools where there are the worst results in Danish and mathematics that the students will be forced to carry out tests which they do not want to offer the students at the other schools in the country. This view is shared by the parties to the primary school. This can be seen from the hearing answers that we have received late. The teachers think it's a really bad idea. Parents think it's a really bad idea, and not least the school leaders of the country think it's an incredibly bad idea with these 20% taken out. I think it must have been very much in the minds of the public school circle that we should like to confirm that somebody simply has to pass through these tests, at what cost it will, even though we cannot really apply the results. I think it is a pity, and I would also like to say that my hope will be put to shame with the rapporteur's speeches that have been so far. I hope, therefore, that when the rapporteurs had read the answers to the hearings that we only received yesterday afternoon, relatively late, there could be a feeling that they failed to draw the 20%. of the schools, which have the worst results in Danish and mathematics, through tests which one does not want to offer to the other schools. We had very much liked to see the national tests suspended until a thorough work has been carried out in the Danish Parliament to develop a new evaluation system. We think, as I hope has emerged, that there are considerable problems with the proposal here. Nevertheless, we consider this to be a small step in the right direction. We hope that further steps will be taken in the legislative process and in the political discussions on what will replace the national test system. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the proposal when it comes to the third reading in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171723	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171726	Thank you, and also thank the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, for making it very clear that the national tests will not be suspended because they do not, but some actors were very busy communicating. So I would certainly like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur for having noticed that this is not the case. I am also sure that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has read the VIVE report, i.e. the evaluation that we launched when we were in the VKLA government, precisely to get a proper basis for taking this discussion about the arraignment, where we know and we also knew it before we got the report that there were problems, but we also needed to get a thorough report, in relation to where the precise problems are. The report also says that if you want an adaptive test system, it is not the case that you can look out into the world and find a system that is more accurate than the Danish system; so the Danish system is neither better nor worse than other systems. That is why I just want to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: if you know that a linear system will probably favour the skilled pupils, is it Enhedslisten's view that a linear system will be better than an adaptive system when we look forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171841	When it is difficult to find an adaptive system that works better elsewhere, it is, as I understand it, because it is virtually not used and that makes the task easier, you might say. Now there must be a debate, I think, but as I have also understood the recommendations of the group of experts that has been set up, I do not remember whether there is full agreement or whether there is only a very broad consensus that the adaptive system is probably not what needs to be applied in the future. But I think that this is part of the debate that is going to take place; where Enhedslisten stands today, we probably would not do well to continue using an adaptive system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171921	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310171924	My question was more about the social dimension of it. In other words, because we know from both international research and from Danish research that a linear test system risks favouring those who are skilled in advance. Like both, you can risk that some people are not tested at all because they are above the system and there may be some who fall through or that you simply do not get a system that is really being adapted. I know that the advisory group recommends it; we are also in favour of it. But with Enhedslisten's background, I just want to know if Enhedslisten had any concerns about the social dimension if you moved from an adaptive to a linear test system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172004	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172005	So, I would say that the fact that a system in this context is socially fair is not quite enough if it is inapplicable to what the school is going to use it for. And that is why we are not in favour of a standardised national test, whether adaptive or linear. This does not mean that we do not think it is right that there should be a good culture of evaluation in our primary school. That is also why we would very much like to enter into discussions with other parties on what we can replace national tests. But I can reassure the rapporteur of the Left that it will not be the case that we enthusiastically engage in defence of a linear standardized national test in the discussions that will not be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172049	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Then it's the Conservative People's Party, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172100	Thank you. As our rapporteur on this subject, Mai Mercado, cannot be here, I have promised to read out her rapporteur's speech. This bill translates into the political agreement on national tests that was concluded shortly after we received the evaluation of the national tests. The evaluation had two clear conclusions in particular: 1) The national tests can be used at student level as an educational tool to provide students with feedback so that they can improve their own performance and improve their skills. 2) On the other hand, the national tests can be used to say something about the level of class and school level, and the tool is also well suited to follow the development of pupils, e.g. 8th classes become worse or better at mathematics over time. With the two conclusions, the conciliation circle faced a choice: should we continue to test the students, knowing that the student's results, which are given to the individual, are basically not directly applicable, or should we stop the national tests until a new test system is available, which can take up to 3 to 5 years? As Conservatives, we want to preserve that part of the steering tool that is useful and valuable. Therefore, it was not an opportunity for us to pause the national tests for a number of years. We think it is important that we can compare nationally. Conversely, we recognise that it is not appropriate for pupils to receive feedback on their individual national test results, which they really cannot use, and that is why we welcome the compromise reached in the conciliation circle. The most important thing is that the national tests are not put on hold. The school year 2019-20 is a transitional period where the following applies: For the school year 2019-20, schools will be able not to carry out the national tests in selected or all subjects at grade level. The 20%. However, the schools, which did the worst in Danish and mathematics at the 9th grade examinations, must continue to carry out the national tests. The schools will not inform the parents of the individual student's outcome unless the parents actively ask the school to do so. From the school year 2021 until a new system has been developed, the Ministry of Children and Education implements minor improvements to the existing test system. The mandatory national tests, i.e. not sample-based but comprehensive as they are today, will be carried out from this school year until a new evaluation system enters into force. Improvements should make the tests more accurate at student level. It is a compromise, and it is no secret that all the parties have had to go far and that no one got the transitional arrangements that the 100 percent went for. But the most important thing for us Conservatives has been to put the seeds of a new national test system with this agreement. Then it may be called something else, but in the conciliation circle we have given hands to each other that in future there will be a national test system. As today, it will be the same throughout the country, and in future it will also include all pupils in selected years in the school programme, so that it is compared at all levels. In the conciliation circle, we have set up four points of reference for future national tests: 1) This should create transparency for parents and pupils in relation to the student's professional position. 2) It is intended to support educational work in the school classes. 3) It must provide a management insight into the professional capacity of schools. 4) It must provide a management insight into the pupils' education. This will enable Conservatives to back the bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172523	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172535	The bill we are discussing today is the adoption of voluntary national tests for the vast majority of schools in Denmark this school year, i.e. 2019-2020, and that is positive. It is a step in the right direction, but they should be abolished altogether. In New Citizens we believe that we should give the people's school back to the people. For too many years, the centralized power over Danish schools has been centralized at Christiansborg, and last it culminated in the real work called the reform of primary schools. Even so-called bourgeois parties voted in favour, and that was shameful. When it was adopted, I was employed as a primary school teacher, and I was and am opposed to the school reform, because we need a completely different path with our schools than what the school reform dictates. In New Citizens we want to set schools free. We want to restore confidence to talented teachers and leaders in schools in close cooperation with committed parents, which will benefit children. We want a markedly shortened primary school law of max. 15 pages, but of course it requires politicians in here at Christiansborg to dare to let go and believe that the good school is not something that is grown in Christiansborg, but that it is something that grows up from below in the country, that it is so different what is the good school in Hørsholm or in Hjørring, in Rødby or in Ringkøbing. The good school isn't done in here at Christiansborg. In here you can set the overall objectives and frameworks, and that is why we also believe that, from a central point of view, it must of course be determined that some knowledge is better than others, a national curriculum. But we cannot do the good school from in here, and we must be up to the individual school to assess what works best for them in their area. Parents must be free to choose between different schools with different profiles, as long as they are of course anchored in Danish values, languages, culture, liberalism and democracy. We need to ensure a much better teacher education, and I am not afraid to say that there should be stop tests, so we ensure that no children go further in the school system... some as far as the 9th grade... without being able to do the most basic things. It makes only good sense to ensure that this does not happen. But all in all, this is about something very fundamental for New Citizens, namely decentralisation, and here the school area is quite obvious. I am therefore delighted to be able to stand on this fine platform and say what I have said in all my years as a teacher: drop the failed primary school reform, drop the failed inclusion reform, and give the people's school back to the people. Making the national tests voluntary in this school year is a tiny step, but a step in the right direction, and we are also pleased that the competence to refrain from conducting national tests lies with the head of the school and not with the municipal politicians. The good school grows up from below at the individual school and not in here at Christiansborg. We therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172917	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. No one has signed up to short remarks. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310172925	Thank you for the floor. The focus of a very large part of school policy in Denmark since 1996 has been the approx. 15% pupils who finish primary school with insufficient knowledge of Danish and writing in particular, but also arithmetic and mathematics, and many initiatives have been taken and reforms have been made, but nothing has helped. The rest group is as large today as it was about a quarter of a century ago, and that is a serious matter because if you are a young person who belongs to the rest group, you are in a very vulnerable situation. It is wrong enough that the labour market for weak readers and writers is much smaller today than it was 30, 40 and 50 years ago, but it is much worse that if you write and read badly, you are put back in relation to developing and forming yourself. It is not the case that this is impossible, but major obstacles have been put in the way. For the way to authority over your own life goes to a very large extent about reading and writing. This has always been the case, and that is the case today. The national tests have been created with the intention that the residual group should be smaller. They have been created so that the education system does not favour the children and young people who come from academic homes, but that the education system should also be for those children who do not have parents who can help and support with reading and who quickly discover that there are problems with learning. I don't think they're 15%. will be significantly smaller before we also deal with the bad aspects of reform education, because if you have better results in Finland, it is because you do not have as much reform teaching. But we also need to maintain a national testing system. It must, of course, be improved if there are problems, and it is always a good idea to include feedback from teachers on how national tests work in practice. It is probably one thing we have neglected for the last 8-10 years, that is to say to get the good practitioners involved in the work of getting a better primary school, but we are also trying to deal with that with the agreement that has been made here. That is why we are pleased that the national tests have been evaluated. We are pleased that the test system works very far along the way, and we are also pleased that the elements that work less well are now being improved. So that's why this is a good deal. It maintains the focal point of the residual group, which is so important, and it retains a principle of national testing. There is more to do, but we have to do, as in eating an elephant, so do it in smaller bites, but some improvements are being put in where it is appropriate, and that is very positive. So we support this bill and with those comments I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310173305	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance and move on to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310173315	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate and support from all ends and edges of the Assembly Hall. In fact, I am incredibly pleased that exactly as far as the national tests are concerned, support is so wide, although it is only the first step. There is, of course, one can hear this from the debate that is in the Chamber today: there is a huge difference between what the attitude is to the national tests; there is one here in the Chamber, but there is also one around. And in fact I believe that what we have ended up with here is also condensed, why it has been so inflamed a debate; it is because the national tests have tried to do three things at once. The national tests have had to be an educational tool, as Mr. Henrik Dahl also attaches importance to raising a particular group, that is, that teachers should be better able to lift a group. So it has been a wish that it should be an educational tool. It has been a wish that it should be an opportunity to report back to parents and children on how things are going professionally in school; it has been the second thing. And the third thing has been that it has been desired that the national tests should also be a management tool, so that as a municipality you could keep track of how things are going with the schools of the municipality, and could compare the schools in the municipality and across municipalities. These are the three things you would have liked to see the national tests delivered. The different parties in the Folketing weigh these things very differently, and we also assess very differently whether the national tests are capable of doing so at all. And where we may agree that they are far from being able to do so, there has been a general consensus that they have not been so good in relation to the part that was about them as an educational tool, that is, partly because teachers have not been satisfied with it to a large extent, partly because they have also had to use other test tools and other teaching methods in order for it to be an educational tool. Where I think we have come up with this agreement is actually in common with each other to recognise that it may well be that we weigh these things differently, but that these are actually legitimate objectives. It is legitimate to want an educational tool. It is legitimate that we want to be able to run primary school. It is legitimate to have a desire for parents to be able to keep track of how things are going in school. That means that these are three legitimate objectives. We can then weigh them differently, but to say that these are three legitimate purposes at all, I think is a really long and really important step forward, we have gone together. I think that the next realization we have to reach together, which we have reached in connection with this work, is that it is not certain that it is the same tool. It is not certain that it is the same tool, because a tool that must be able to cover up such a variety of things has to weigh one, the other or the third most, because it cannot all three parts. And then it is that we disagree, because was it one, the other or the third of the three legitimate objectives that were the most important? Well, that's what we don't agree on. And think, neither are the parents, because we represent the parents out there as a reflection. That is to say, it is actually a very good idea that we should ensure that we provide some tools in which the three legs can be allowed to exist simultaneously. And if we get there, I'm actually optimistic that we can get the whole parliament behind an agreement that we're going to make, also with regard to the next stretch, that is, because we got so far with this. So there's a huge recognition for that. Yeah, that's right, what a lot of people have said up here: everybody's had to go a long way. There is not a party for whom this was the wish agreement, but everyone has brought home what they thought was the most important thing; what was the legitimate aim of their party is included in the agreement. Everyone's got what was most important to them. I think it is very good that this has been possible. Then perhaps I would like to say a few words about the individual remarks that have been made here. The Radical Left says that we should be able to rely on what we get, that is to say we should have confidence in the evaluation and evaluation system that exists, and I simply think that is one of the most fundamental things. I agree, and therefore it is also incredibly important that it is a united Parliament that is behind us moving forward and that it has broad support. Of course, we must not have the tools to tell parents what is going on in school, if it does not match reality. There is therefore also a huge recognition that everyone from the Radical Left, who has been in one place in relation to the national tests, to the Danish People's Party, who has been in a completely different place in connection with the national tests, can find each other around saying: If there is one thing you have to be sure of, then it is that what you get home with you can at least trust. So, if we cannot trust it, we must of course change it, because it must of course be the case that it is a cornerstone of our education system that we assess the students, and that is why we must of course be able to rely on the feedback we receive. Then I would like to say to the Danish People's Party, which has made some comments about the schools that do not have superstructures, that it is true that the consultation deadline has been very short. That's because we've had to make this legislation after the evaluation came, but before the tests started. So we have had a very mixed process here, and that is why we found a tool that does not work in relation to what was the spirit of the agreement, namely that the fifth of the schools that perform the least because it is the spirit of the agreement that has to be tested anyway, and that is why we must of course find a way to get the last part that does not have a superstructure. I have agreed to do so in writing, because I think that is quite in line with what we have agreed with each other. Following on from that, I will reply to what Enhedslisten asked about earlier: this is why it is that we take out the 20%. What is the philosophy behind this? Research has been carried out in the autumn in connection with missing a rather large group that didn't get the national tests. That is why we know quite a lot about what happens if you do not take the national tests. It is, of course, nuanced, and I would like to say to the SF: it is not just that it is a good idea to test especially those students who have difficulty with it; it is just not that it is a good idea not to. For what appears in terms of both Danish and mathematics results is that especially for the group that is having a hard time at school, it is a very good idea to test. Why is that? It's because part of this is that it's a pedagogical tool, even if it's a bad one. But for the group for which it is an educational tool, it actually counts so much that we can see it quite clearly in the tests, i.e. that you do better if you are tested. What is then my point is that when we think it is legitimate, it is simply because, through the test, teachers gain insight into what the student cannot do. This means that when it comes to a student who may be wearing the wallpaper in the classroom and performing rings in school, the teacher can be a little distracted as to what part of the mathematics the student has a problem with, and then they find out with the test. What is just the problem with the test and the teachers know it well is that there are other tests that are significantly better at providing a broad knowledge of what the child cannot do in mathematics. But it's better with the little part than no part, and that's what we can look at the tests. In other words, when it comes to the leg on which national tests can be an educational tool, we have to listen to what the teachers say: Make a tool to give us a better insight as regards those students who are not doing well at school. Yes, thank you. We'd like to do that. So one of the tasks ahead of us is to improve it, but that is why it has not been so easy just to say that it also applies to 20%. of the schools which perform the least. Because we know that even if you cannot say that the test result makes sense at individual level, we know that it does so at the aggregated level, and therefore we will be able to catch classes and schools where things are going in the wrong direction. But it is admitted that it will never be the sharpest tools in the drawer when you have incredibly short time to take a position, and this is a temporary solution. But that is the reason for it, and I really think it is a good thing that we are listening to the research on the bottom 20%. And I am also convinced that Enhedslisten and SF are right about all the other arguments they normally have that you can of course find better tools than this: yes, you can, and that is what we need to do. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the consultation which has been mentioned by several Members, in other words, in relation to the consultation between the various parties: I think we should do the same. We've had a hearing on this, and they've only had one week to answer. In fact, these are quite excellent consultation responses, given how short they have had to respond. So I actually think, when you read the answers to the hearings, that you get a feeling that it is all about people who have been following this debate for years and have therefore also been hungry to read both the evaluation and the things that have come after. So it's really incredibly useful to get an idea of where the different people stand. But I also believe that we need to get all the different parties to the table and that we should be there with them. Because I also believe that we need to hear the same things from the various parties and how they react to what the others are reporting. Of course we must if we want to achieve the three legitimate objectives. It has to be an educational tool, and it is therefore difficult to do without having teachers, school leaders, parents and students with us. We would like to have a sharp steering tool, and it is probably a good idea for us to bring the managers in over the municipalities as school owners, the school managers, the school managers, but of course also those who sit on the other side of it, i.e. the teachers and the pupils, who have to put their backs on a steering mechanism; of course, they must also have the opportunity to respond to that. Then there is the last part about the feedback, which for me is absolutely central, and which sometimes dives a little below the surface of the debate: Parents must be able to keep track of how their child is doing in school. And for the fact that you have to be able to provide it just with formal feedback, as such is the big new variety in the debate, I would say that I like formal feedback. It's really good, and you can get a lot of messages about how your child is doing, i.e. that it's going incredibly well in Danish, and that your child has moved a lot since you last talked about it, but is similar to an old-fashioned 5-s or an old-fashioned 8-s, or where are we on that scale? It can actually be hard to decode as a parent, incredibly hard to decode. And that's why I think that getting a little more standardized, a little more square and a little more old-fashioned, basic feedback from the school is really good for the parents, and I think it's really good for the students, because it gives them a common expectation, including children and parents between, which I simply think is healthy, so that they in the family agree on where they are at school rather than that there can be those completely wrong expectations for the children, which I really don't think is particularly nice. So we need to find a balance between all the different things, and that is why I believe that we need to look at exactly the things we've talked about in connection with this agreement, and have found some tools that must be able to do something different and therefore also have to be different and hopefully with it also find something that we can all see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174445	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, for a comment or a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174450	Now, I have noticed, there is a slightly different view of how the use of the tests at class level and school level is perceived. After all, there is no agreement that they are useful. But what offends me in relation to the 20% that now has to be drawn through these tests is that just as the minister highlights the tests as an educational tool ■ is very widely stated, at least by the teachers, that it is not useful. And that is why I think it is really a little bit to leave teachers behind in the schools that are today doing the worst in mathematics and in Danish, that one should say: you will still use an educational tool this spring, which you really do not think is meaningful in relation to the teaching that you are providing. Isn't it a bit of a failure of the teachers in the schools that perform the least in mathematics and Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174557	If you replace it with that there is nothing at all: No. What we can do as legislators in the situation that it is not really a very good educational tool is to put a better educational tool instead of or to put nothing in place. That, sir. Jakob Silverhøj adds, as I hear in the speech, is so that we put nothing in place. It doesn't help the students, so I actually think that's an incredibly bad idea, and we have massive research that shows that. That is to say, if we had a better educational tool than the national tests to replace, then I would much prefer it. That is why I actually recognise what is the basis for what is the Enhedslisten's objection: is it a good educational tool? No, because it is a tool that tries to yawn over having to have different things. But it is better than no tool, and we know that from research. This means that one will abandon the students if one says that, recognising that it is a poor educational tool, we would rather replace it with no educational tool and determine it from in here. We just know that from research isn't a good idea. This is not because most teachers are not able to make a better educational tool themselves. Fortunately, the teachers are. But there's actually such a big group of students out there for whom it's not the case that it's better that we do it this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174712	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174714	After all, we are voting in favour of the proposal for the reasons I have described. But if it is better than nothing for the 20%, I simply do not understand why the rest has been exempted. If it's better to do these tests than not to do them, why, in the name of heaven, has the 75% exemption been granted.? Since it is the case that they are not considered to be valid in relation to informing parents, is it not also a wrong situation to put schools in, that some tests are now being carried out, and if parents ask for the results, one has to accompany them with the words: Here is the result of the tests, but you should not really count on them to reflect the real level of your son or daughter in mathematics and Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174802	The reason there's a difference between the 20%. And the rest, there's a difference between the 20%. And the rest. There is simply evidence of this in terms of research. There are particularly two groups for which it makes a difference to be nationally tested, compared to how well one later does in mathematics and Danish: They are children coming from non-housing homes, and they are children of immigrants. That is why it is the 20 per cent who have the poorest examinations, which are the ones that have to be tested now. It is simply because for precisely the two groups of children from non-residential homes and children with immigrant backgrounds it is meaningful to test in a different way than it is for the rest. That's what the research shows. In other words, testing makes a special difference, says research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174849	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174852	Thank you so much. I would just like to ask the Minister what I also asked the rapporteur about earlier. For now the Minister keeps saying this: if you are in favour of abolishing national tests, then you are in favour of moving into nothing, and that is certainly not what we are in favour of. But isn't the Minister aware that it's not just some educational tools that the teachers in the schools are just making up, but that there are in fact some teaching tools at this stage in the schools, for example, to test for spelling in Danish, which are developed by professionals and which are used very, very many places, and where you actually have the opportunity to learn to form a very, very thorough insight into exactly where the student is strong, where the student has challenges, whether it's long vocals, short vocals, double consonants, or where it is, challenges lie, and thus can go in and guide the student and, moreover, inform the parents about where the pupil is located? Is the Minister aware that it actually exists and is used in schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310174956	Yes, of course. I do not think that any person is concerned with school policy that is not aware of that. What the research shows is that yes, it is actually available, accessible and also significantly better educational tools than the national tests in order to find out something about the breadth. That's what I meant by the width: the width of what it is in mathematics you can't or what it's about spelling you can't. What is just the challenge is that not everyone is using them. That is to say, if you look at what happens, if we do not do national tests, then there are some, too many, who put nothing in place, and then there is just a group of students flying under the radar. And we can see from the research that it simply means that they get lower education and also end up being able to mathematics and Danish inferior, and these are especially children from non-housing homes. In other words, yes, I know that those tools are available. I don't think there is a single primary school teacher who doesn't. But the fact that society says "must," in fact, has a significance, especially in relation to those groups which come from non-housing homes or come from immigrant backgrounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175104	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175105	Now we are talking about the national tests, which we have seen cannot really be used. I have seen this myself as a teacher, i.e. I could not really use it very much. We can also really agree that the present character system is problematic because there are very large differences between grades. It's very difficult. In the old character system it was much easier to say: you are on a 7-figure, and if you want to get up to 8, you have to do that etc. There you have that dialogue and guidance of the student. So we can agree to look and change that. I'm all for that. What I just notice when both the Minister and some of the other parties to the agreement talk about the national tests is that we have to set up a uniform national system to control, and it just sounds like you don't know that you can actually do this in schools already.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175157	In fact, I believe that what is essential is that these are two different things. There is the educational tool that the rapporteur first talked about, which is about finding out what can be done in Danish and mathematics. We know there are much better tests than national tests and they are available in schools and teachers use them. The challenge with that part of it is that teachers do not do it too much, with the result that there is too large a group of students where the teacher does not find out what they cannot. That's one part. The second part is about steering, and that is where you can actually use another type of gear, because there it is not so important to be able to the width of it. In fact, it is more important that you can go in and see how this school or this class performs in relation to something else. That is why I am saying that two different tools are simply needed, because there are two different things they need to be able to do. That is where we have tried to make it one and the same tool with the national tests, and thus both tools are really getting out of focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175254	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175258	Thanks for the speech. I agree with much of what the Minister has said, also about the need for, and the very legitimacy of, both having a good educational tool, an insight into the level of the individual pupil, also for parents in terms of being able to be there and support your child in a training context, and, of course, also that you have a steering tool. It is just as indicated that there are many educational tools out there today, developed by professionals. It is there; I think we all know that. But there is also a need to have a future discussion about whether the validity of this type of test is better or worse than what we have now. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether, because I know there are others who have been brought to the attention of the Minister, he is also aware of tests that are being used locally, which are not in fact accurate, and whether the Minister wishes to look at it in the future, and whether the Minister can confirm that the national tests have also been developed by professionals, because it is, of course, indicated that they are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175403	To the end, I would say: absolutely yes. So if the indicated is different, it has not been my intention at all. It is simply a matter of the fact that what has been developed by professionals has had to yawn over all three elements, and among other things. That is why a great deal of effort has been devoted to it. Well, it's highly qualified, but everything's not good because it's had to yawn over the three things. We have given the professionals an impossible task; that is actually my whole point. So it is not the professionals who are the problem. That is the political decision. So I would say in relation to the test toolbox, as I translate it to be, that, without necessarily pre-empting the negotiations on the long stretch in this Chamber, I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left. I certainly believe that it must be the case that, from the point of view of society, we are becoming better at being those who deliver a palette of tests that could be relevant at the different classes and validate what kind of work and for what. I would think that was a very obvious thing to discuss with each other as part of a new testing and evaluation system. I believe a great deal in this, and it is a little in line with what Mrs Mette Thiesen says that you have to go out where the teacher himself is allowed to choose the tests that make the most sense on the part that is about the educational aim, which is something other than where we run. The better we as a society can give the teachers what they expect of us in that account, the better I think they will be able to do their job, and that is exactly what the teachers want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175527	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175528	I fully agree with that. When I asked about that, it was because Mrs Mette Thiesen slightly indicated that the tests that are out locally, developed by professionals, like are safe. And as a result of what Mrs Marianne Jelved said earlier, given that the VIVE report was, in many ways, an aha experience of how imprecise the national tests have proved to be on some points, I would say that there are several players who have had hold of me and probably also in other rapporteurs, and said that if we can be so surprised by the national tests, there is no need and reason why we are actually trying to qualify some of the other tools that have been taken for granted were actually fair but which may have as much a veil as any of the other. That's why my question related to this particular thing was also looking at that dimension.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175617	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175620	Well, I would like to contribute to that, and I would say that I think, in a way, that some of the things you have missed, because you have tried to get the tools to do it all, is to sharpen it on the individual parts. And what I really hear in the conciliation circle is that we have now found each other in relation to saying that if we make three different tools, it will be considerably easier, for example. to sharpen the educational aim, for then that is the only thing we need to look at that part of the tool, and when we talk about governance, we sharpen it up in terms of actually being able to do so. There I think it is quite obvious to go in and look at the tests that are out there and something that the teachers have actually been urging us to do for years. They say: These are the ones we use, so you could not further facilitate the teaching tools that we still use in teaching. I think we should simply take that at face value. Thanks for the input. I'm quite convinced we're going to have to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175710	Thank you, we'll tell the minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200310175725	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 March 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
