ParlaMint-DK_20201023095949	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Marie Krarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the need to be Danish married in order to be naturalised as a Danish citizen). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100015	The debate is open. Sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100031	Thank you very much. There are many experiences that can bring us together as Danes, but there is one thing that can bring us together across political disagreements, and it is good Danish sports results • Wilson Kipketer's world record, the performance of Danish cyclists during the Tour de France, our athlete's many Olympic medals or the European Championship in 1992, to name a few. It is performance that we as Danes can be proud of. Performances that require optimal and secure frameworks. Our task as politicians is to set the framework for our many talented athletes. We must ensure security, openness and the opportunity for everyone to feel represented in elite sport. We will ensure that, among other things. with this bill. At the same time, it is important that it is precisely sport itself that creates the content within this framework. It is therefore also important that we continue to show great confidence in the players and institutions of elite sport to continue to fulfil the task. I believe that we have all seen the revelations which, among other things, have been made in this Chamber. Denmark's Radio has delivered. Everyone knows that as an elite athlete a lot must be sacrificed, but the revelations of the documentary also show that unworthy demands were made and that in a number of areas the athletes in the Danish Swimming Union were not treated properly. In February 2020, the DA presented a report explaining the extent of the failure and breach of ethical guidelines that had occurred in the Danish Swimming Union. It is precisely with the background of these revelations and breaches of the ethical guidelines that we are now changing the rules. The aim of the bill here is thus to ensure the basis for a secure environment for elite athletes with a focus on their well-being. Therefore, it is proposed that Team Denmark's supervisory obligation be clarified overall; that an independent function be established, such as athletes, coaches and others can be achieved by distraction and unacceptable behaviour in elite sport, and that the rules for the composition of Team Denmark's board of directors be changed. There is no doubt that the work as an elite athlete is extremely hard and demands great sacrifices. Clearly, elite athletes have to work hard to get into the world elite. But there is a big difference between working hard and working hard for a cause to work in an unhealthy psychological work environment that ultimately makes it harder to stay among the best in the world. It is essential that the elite athletes' continued struggle to bring medals home to Denmark can take place in a secure environment, in a framework where athletes should not fear the insulting behaviour of either fellow practitioners, coaches or leaders. It is precisely this secure framework that we are now providing with this legislative proposal. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill and, at the same time, I should like to welcome the Radical Left to say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100336	Thank you. Since there are no brief comments, we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100353	Thank you so much. Denmark is one of the very best countries in the world to engage in elite sport. We must be both proud of this and very satisfied with it. How can I say that? I can say that because I have been there myself, both as an elite player, but also as a national team coach in close cooperation with my union, but also in close cooperation with Team Denmark. But even the best places can be hit by a culture that is not healthy and where misfortune and violations take place. During the swimming association, an unhealthy culture prevailed for years, which was uncovered at the beginning of April 2019, and the then Minister for Culture asked the DA to look at it and get the extent of it discovered here. Unfortunately, it turned out to be as big and as bad as many of the swimmers expressed. It came to several actions over the year and, of course, it also resulted in a political debate on whether we should not adjust our elite sports law. After several conversations with practitioners, trainers and federations, the Danish Sports Association and Team Denmark, we agreed that the athletes should have a larger vote on the board. We should also have a clear place where practitioners could turn to misfortune and violations. Who should be appointed to the board has also received an attention in the bill, which also clarifies Team Denmark's duty of supervision in relation to the union's work with the elite professionals. It may well be that we have to look at who can be appointed to the board, when there are 62 special federations both boards, but also employees, and we can see that we have virtually excluded them. It may well be that we will have to return to it in the negotiations that are now coming in the future, because there could be very good people there, and we may still need to have a dialogue on how we can take them into account. However, the Left basically shares the views and supports the bill, as we believe that the adjustments take account of the practitioners and their opportunities to be heard, without prejudice to the fine balance which also exists in elite sport, where federations and trainers and practitioners side by side struggle with the same ambition to do so as well as possible in a healthy sports environment. We cannot reverse the experiences of the swimmers, but we can try to ensure that in the future the practitioners must also have a place to go and make their opinions known in relation to distrust and violations. This makes it possible for this proposal to be put forward here, and that is why the Left supports the proposal. And I should like to say to Mrs Mai Mercado and the Conservatives that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100645	Thank you to the rapporteur, and since there are no brief comments, we can proceed along the lines of Mr Beazley's report. Denni Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100655	As mentioned, the reason for this bill is that at some point there was an unhealthy environment among the elite swimmers, and one study also showed that there was a particular problem between 2003 and 2013 which did not comply with the guidelines and ethical codes already in place in this area. So it has to be said that there were rules, but people didn't follow them. The conclusion of the study was essentially that it was due to a significant degree of failure in the management of both the Swim Union, but also in Team Denmark. The bill is then about clarifying the responsibility of Team Denmark. It is not really a change; it is made clear that they are responsible for what they had in the past too. Then an independent function is established under Team Denmark, where athletes and trainers and others can approach if they have experienced distrust or unacceptable behavior, and that is, as I see it, the only rule change in this bill that moves something. I think it is quite a good idea to set up such a scheme where you can turn if it is, because of course it is quite naturally difficult to go to the coach who has this cross-border behavior or other things. So it's a good thing there's a place like this. Then you change the rules for the composition of Team Denmark's Board of Directors, where one of the members is to be appointed by Team Denmark's Active Committee and after the nomination of the Danish Sports Association. It is also reasonable that athletes should have greater participation in the board of directors. There is, in fact, only one thing that puzzles me a little about this bill, which I will also try to dive into now, but also in the committee procedure, and that is who is not allowed to be on the board of directors, so the composition of the board, which is said to be all those who have been employed, for example. Denmark's Sports Association or one of the special federations cannot become a board member and therefore automatically has an inability. All those who sit as president of one of the specialized federations or as vice-chairman or as a board member cannot therefore either. I'm thinking that we're going to throw a lot of gold on the floor because many of those who sit have a lot of in-depth and good knowledge about the area that they can bring into Team Denmark's Board of Directors. I think it's a good thing that you get that connection between the Special Associations and Team Denmark. I'm a little afraid you're gonna throw this on the floor. I think that a solution or a stopover could be what the Danish Sports Association also writes in their hearing answer: that it might be fair to say that the employees and the chairman and vice-chairman of the federations should not be there, but why exclude all board members who sit in the special federations around? Because there are a lot of people out there who have been excluded from being able to be part of Team Denmark's Board of Directors. So I think that a stopover to that could be to follow the consultation answer that is from the Danish Sports Association, which I actually find very balanced between the two considerations. On the one hand, of course, there may be some who are inhabited, and on the other hand we also include a lot of people who may have a lot of useful knowledge that we can use on Team Denmark's Board of Directors, and that could be a way to solve it. In general terms, however, I think that this is a quite sensible legislative proposal, which I assume we support, but, as I have said, we have this one thing we would like to have looked at a little more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023100956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also no brief comments here, which is why we can move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023101013	Thank you. We are living right now at a time when there is a landmark fight with violations and harassment in all circles of society. For SF it is therefore essential that the elite sport and Team Denmark also follow with time and take the necessary steps to avoid a culture of offending behaviour. Danish elite swimming has experienced great success over the past two decades with more than 100 medals at the European EM, World Cup and the Olympics. But especially for women in Danish elite swimming, there is a reverse of the medal that we cannot accept as responsible politicians or as a society. In DR's documentary "Swimming Stars - Under the surface" we hear horrible reports of a training culture with public weighing, intake of unknown pills, patronizing comments and outright bullying from the swim trainer. In the broadcast we also hear about a female 14-year-old swimmer who, according to her, was told by a national coach that he had never seen a swimmer with such an ugly technique, and that she was also too low and too thick, and that for those reasons she had no chance of becoming a good international swimmer. Such comments and outright bullying have led to anxiety and depression for some of the swimmers, and no medals are worth it. In SF we therefore recognise the initiative behind the bill and the concrete need both to ensure better representation for the athletes in Team Denmark and also to get some attention to the composition of the boards as well as for a sort of whistleblower scheme. It is an independent function that can process reports from athletes, trainers and others if they experience unacceptable behaviour in the elite training environments that Team Denmark works with. This is a good step along the way, but we must be careful that good intentions are not merely declarations of intent and not real action. Team Denmark must be recognised for a good dialogue in the process. In the hearing answer they point out that we in Denmark have a unique model for talents in elite work, based on a trusting and constructive collaboration between Team Denmark, the Danish Sports Association and the special associations. And we and Team Denmark agree that this should be safeguarded. However, in SF we are concerned that the bill envisages that Team Denmark should supervise itself. There is no need for the degree of independence and stability in this design. We can simply be afraid that the new whistleblower system or independent function is too close to Team Denmark, so that the athletes do not dare to avail themselves of the scheme, as there among others. is pointed out in the consultation answer from the Sports Institute for Analysis and Anti Doping Denmark. They must not be afraid that they cannot be removed from their federations for the next national team if they report their trainers. They must not think that it is best for their reputation in the connected and in Team Denmark if they just keep quiet about the possible violations they have experienced. We must introduce a whistleblower scheme because it must be used by the athletes and trainers in Danish elite sports, who have either experienced or witnessed abusive behavior on their own, and who, with the right tools, have the courage to come forward with their stories so that we improve culture, improve the training environment in Danish elite sport. Of course, we want all the Danish medals and the great sporting achievements that can excite and inspire even more sports and sports, but the athletes must be driven and motivated on a foundation where we have the elite sport's training and training culture in sync with today's expectations of greater equality and tolerance. Today, in the SF, we support the bill. We are entering into the upcoming committee work with some of the attentions I have also mentioned in the speech, and we look forward to further work on improving conditions in Danish elite sport, because that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023101423	Thank you. Here too there are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023101437	Thank you, President. Being part of a talent program at the elite level or being an elite athletes today, I think, is not normal life. And it is not at all for very young people for whom everyday life is put in a hard environment with almost inhumane pressures and priorities.In a life where trainers and managers on long stretches replace parents, but at the same time have the power to decide whether the career is being developed or run. As a starting point, it is a situation that can easily go wrong. Fortunately, this does not happen often, but we have seen examples of it, as we saw in the DR documentary about the swim girls. Somewhere else, in another room, perhaps in another time it might call for a more fundamental discussion about the phenomenon we call elite sport, a phenomenon in which one of Denmark's most expensive footballers a year ago switched from Italian Sampdoria to French Lyon for the vicinity of 225 million. kr. It's of course small change, it's nothing to rain compared to the 21-year-old Kylian Mbappé, who switched to Paris Saint-Germain and estimated at 259.2 million. Euros, that is, almost 2 billion. kr. I think that one day we should have a discussion about how elite sport has developed, but leave that discussion now. Here and now it is about doing something to protect younger talents and elite athletes in particular better from humiliation, abuse and outright abuse. Therefore, we fully support the intentions of this bill and we would like to contribute to its entry into force as early as 1 January 2021. In relation to the original draft law, we have noted how a number of sports organisations have insisted in their hearing response that this should be a completely independent function for elite athletes to go to if they are miserable or feel that they are subjected to unacceptable behaviour. That requirement is not so much different from what is needed when we talk about the journalism, the film industry or the political parties no one mentioned, no one forgotten. We are very pleased that the draft law is now more open to such an independent body, but in committee we will go in and see how important a role Team Denmark should play in this regard. Similarly, we will be interested in whether the right balance has been achieved when we talk about the composition of Team Denmark's Board of Directors. We have taken note of the proposals on the importance of not least female elite athletes being an important component of such a board, just as we have taken note of the proposal from the Active Committee on the need for former athletes or trainers with particular insight into the relationship of elite athletes. Whether this can be ensured within the current number of board members in Team Denmark, which the Ministry of Culture attaches importance to, or whether there is a need for enlargement, is also one of the things we need to discuss in connection with the committee work. Here we will also look at whether the right parallelism between the different organisations of sport is ensured when it comes to who can and who can not be members of the boards of Team Denmark, Anti Doping Denmark and Sport Event Denmark. But, as I said, Enhedslisten is positive about the intentions of this proposal. We will take an active part in the work of the committee to ensure that it is dealt with in a thorough but timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023101847	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no brief comments. That's why it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023101854	Unlike Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I like the free market forces, and when people get a high salary, it is because they bring a high value to the organisation they work for. When we have this proposal, it is, of course, a sad one, and I think we should be careful not to poke our eyes into the fact that this one piece of legislation with a snap is going to solve it so that we do not have to hear about such matters in the future. We have to be careful in here when we make legislation, that we say not, now we fix this, because then we're going to look awfully stupid when there comes the next example, and that could easily come here too. For elite sport is a very, very, very tough industry, and great demands are being made, and there I myself have in my previous work as a teacher taught elite sports students, who got special conditions right down to primary school level, so that they could better grow their sport, i.e. elite sports classes, and there are of course negative effects about it, but there are also insanely many positive effects by doing elite sport. So there are some young people who are determined, who are motivated, who can engage and who can understand how to structure their time and work hard for a goal. I also think that we should be careful not to talk down elite sport and also to remember the good things that are about it when people are doing elite sport: the cohesion, the community that comes along with the success experience that also comes for young people by cultivating it. This does not mean that we should not focus on the other, but we must be careful that it does not become a monotonous debate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102055	Thank you for the floor. It's a little sad for me that our former colleague, sir. Joachim B. Olsen cannot be here today, for he has heard of someone who has heard negative prejudices about elite athletes, which is why it is beautiful to listen to all the nice things that are being said about elite sports today. He really should have been watching that. This bill has been created on the basis of some revelations of the conditions for elite swimmers, and it is positive that it is being followed up. The psychopathic trainers of the past, which you can read about, if you get in on how football, for example. was organized earlier, time has run out, and of course time has also run from psychopathic trainers in swimming. So it is good that even before the elections some steps were taken to correct these issues, and we naturally support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102203	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102216	Thank you to all the rapporteurs for the comments. A great many good and right things have been said, and I would also like to thank you for the discussions leading up to the tabling of this bill. One of the most important things that I think has been said here today and which I would like to repeat is that this bill cannot fail to do so. But it is important that we all send out the signal that I think you, the parties of the Folketing, have helped send out which we send together to those who have been through these things that have been shown, that we have heard you, we have seen you, and we are now trying to create some new structures that will make it possible, the next time someone finds himself in a similar situation, to say off, and that there must be some who listen and act. The overall focus of the bill here is precisely to provide a basis for a more secure framework for elite athletes with a focus on their well-being. As the swimming case and other cases of unacceptable behaviour in elite sport have shown quite clearly, it is necessary to take action in various areas, because top performance and being in a competitive environment never make the thriving gets pushed into the background. The Danish social model also for elite sport is about getting top performances and ambitions to go hand in hand with well-being and humanity. It is, of course, a balancing act because elite sport is tough and demands tough priorities, but it must not be at the expense of the throes, because the more competitive it is, and the more at stake, the more sensitive it is, the more sensitive we must be to each other's humanity. So the bill is also one of several initiatives that hopefully can help change culture, strengthen awareness of the well-being of elite athletes. These are actions which come from the Chamber Attorney's study of the situation of elite swimmers in the Danish Swimming Union, but not here a proposal that will be left alone. Both Team Denmark know this, as does DIF, the Danish Sports Association. They have clearly signaled it and they have also worked responsibly with this study. They are in the process of a series of measures focusing on the subject, for example: in the training and well-being studies and through participation in research projects etc., and I think they should be recognised for this. I do not want to go over the elements of the draft law in a slavish way: several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned most of the issues, but I do want to make some comments on the establishment of the autonomous function and on the composition of the board, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned. After all, the bill entrusts Team Denmark with the task of developing and establishing an independent function for which the athletes can go if they experience dissatisfaction, unacceptable coaching behaviour or the like within the elite sports environments with which Team Denmark cooperates. I would like to stress that the draft law does not predetermine a particular form or organisation of the function. It may also have to evolve as we learn more about this over time, but it will be Team Denmark who, with this bill, will be responsible for developing and describing such a function, stressing that they must also involve the relevant actors, not least the athletes themselves. In several of the consultation responses it has been stated that Team Denmark should not be responsible for the task, but that it should be another independent actor. I fully acknowledge that it is a choice; it is something that one can speak both for and against, but when I have chosen to put forward this bill as it stands, it is because I think that this cultural change should be firmly anchored in everyday life, so that when inquiries are made, learning from them is quickly incorporated into everything that is happening. Change and the increased focus on well-being must enter the whole culture. When the enquiries are made, it has already happened, that is to say, what I said at the beginning that we can never fail. So the more we can use the inquiries to prevent it from happening at all, the better. Therefore, a fundamental change in culture is important every day and every training. I would also like to say that I also believe that this cultural change is already taking place in Team Denmark and that today they have shown that they are somewhere else than they were with, for example. the conditions we saw during the swim trial. That is why I am confident that Team Denmark can carry out the task, and we will ensure a good process with the involvement of the athletes and others. Then there was also a comment about the changes in the bill concerning Team Denmark's Board of Directors. Various views have emerged both in this Chamber today and in the hearings. To strengthen the athletes' voice in Team Denmark, the proposal here is that Team Danmarks Entrepreneurship Committee be given the right to nominate 1 of the 4 members of Team Denmark's Board of Directors they appoint. Thus, the athletes have a more direct influence on the board composition, while maintaining the balance between the number of board members appointed by the Minister for Culture and the number of appointed by the DIF. I think it's natural that it's the asset committee. These are the voices of the active to the board and the administration in DIF and Team Denmark in matters of Olympics and elite sports and now also in relation to the board composition. There have been views on whether it might be appropriate to make Team Denmark's Board of Directors bigger in order to allow more to appoint the Board of Directors. I would just like to say that it is already relatively large today when compared with other sports boards. And in relation to who can then be appointed at all, it is also a matter of finding the right balance. There I think it is also worth noting that today there is no limitation on who can sit on the Team Denmark's Board of Directors. With the new provision, the aim is to ensure courage or, at least, to minimise the risk of conflicts of interest. It follows similar provisions which already exist on the boards of directors for example. Anti Doping Denmark and Sport Event Denmark, but it is quite true that we also have to ensure that there are some people on Team Denmark's Board of Directors who have detailed knowledge of Danish elite sports conditions for practitioners and trainers, the organisation and cooperation of sport • and this is also why the proposal still leaves the possibility for people who take care of, for example. other functions in committees of the DIF or the specialized association or sitting on the DIF's board of directors, can still be appointed away. With these comments, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102932	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Culture. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023102947	The debate is open. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103003	Thank you. In Denmark we have a wide range of courses, each of which gives access to an even wider range of career opportunities. It is very good that there is something to choose from, but when you as a young person have to decide in which direction you want to go, the many offers can be a bit of a jungle to find around in. It is therefore good that today we have a guidance system run by Study Elections Denmark, which helps young people choose the right education. Study choices Denmark today offers guidance on the choice of higher education for pupils in upper secondary education and for others who have obtained or are obtaining the necessary admission basis for admission to higher education. However, as it is today, guidance on vocational training is not offered. This is problematic for several reasons. We need more young people to choose the education that is right for them. We have long wanted vocational training to become more attractive. This is why an essential element of the study guidance is missing when it does not also contain vocational training. We must not cut young people off from realising their potential, which is why we must of course also offer guidance on vocational training, even if young people have started high school or already have secondary education in advance. We want vocational training to be given the same recognised status as higher education. This is important both for the individual and for society. We cannot spare the craftsman who has to build the hospital any more than we can spare the doctor who works at the hospital. That is why we must help young people to grow up with the perception that all professions • all professions • contribute to society and have a value. That is why we are now putting forward this bill. The bill is presented as a consequence of an agreement concluded by the government and a broad majority of the Folketing on 2 March 2020 to allocate 5 million. kr. Denmark's guidance on vocational education and training. We want to expand Study Choices Denmark's guidance area so that it also includes guidance on vocational education and training. We propose that there should be an additional effort to supplement the existing guidance given by Study Elections Denmark. This does not reduce the guidance on higher education. Education is important for our future. It is therefore vital that we help all young people to choose the right and right education, including those who, after starting high school and perhaps even finishing it, find out that it was not the right way for them and that they might have to do something else. Therefore, it is only wise that we extend study choices Denmark's guidance efforts to cover vocational training as well. Social democracy therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103304	Thank you. And there are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103318	Yes, thank you very much. In the Left, we are concerned with having as good a guidance system as possible, and there is no such clear recipe for what is good in this context, which is why, of course, we also need to pay constant attention to any shortcomings in our guidance system. We believe that this agreement will correct precisely such a deficiency. And it is not so often that I fully agree with my Socialist colleague, but I do think that Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg gave an excellent rapporteur's speech, which I fully endorse. It's about exactly what I heard from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg stresses that creating the best framework for young people to find their way through the jungle of the variety of training opportunities available. However, with the bill here, we are implementing a very good agreement that ensures that what we know as Study Choices Denmark will get more muscles to guide young people • also about vocational training and the opportunities that vocational training offers young people. Of course, the agreement must also be seen in the light of the fact that a united Parliament has been striving for a number of years to ensure that more young people choose vocational training and that it becomes more attractive to choose vocational training, because we need skilled workers and we need good craftsmen; there is a shortage of them today and there is the prospect of even greater shortages in the future. Many young people start in high school, but find out along the way that it's not exactly them. And today it is actually the case that student choice Denmark provides guidance for higher education, and what the agreement here creates is that you can also provide guidance for vocational training, and that makes really, really good sense. With that said, it is important for me to stress that the guidance itself on which youth education is to be chosen must, of course, continue to take place in primary school as before. However, there are examples of young people who do not receive youth education because they are going to make the wrong choice and that makes no sense. We are therefore very, very pleased that a broad majority in the Folketing has agreed to allocate funds to give Study Elections Denmark more muscles, so that one can help it lift the task, so that if one has made a wrong choice in the form of secondary school, one can be guided to a vocational training or if after the end of the Baccalaureate one cannot just look at oneself at a academic higher education, one must also have the opportunity to get guidance to take a vocational training course. Once again, I stress that we do not want a system in which it is necessary to be admitted to vocational training that one has a Baccalaureate that is really important for me to emphasise. But at the same time, it is important that Study Choices Denmark, as mentioned, get muscles to implement even better and broader guidance from young people; it makes really, really good sense. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103652	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103707	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this is the implementation of an agreement we made back in the spring. What is at the heart of the Danish People's Party is that we help each young person get to the right education and get into the right profession. As mentioned earlier, there is, of course, a huge task in improving our guidance right back in primary school, primary school, so that you are guided as early as possible to choose what you really have the ability and desire to do. At the same time, however, we must also recognise that there are some who go to high school and then stand as it is today and cannot get the guidance that might be right for them. Because if it is right for the young person to go to a vocational school, it should not be an obstacle to having a Baccalaureate. It must never be a prerequisite, but it must not be an obstacle either. And that is why it is really important that Study Choices Denmark is given this opportunity to provide guidance in relation to higher education, because it is still their primary task to look at the individual young person and say: You actually need to become a carpenter instead of becoming an engineer. Then it may be that the carpenter later goes and becomes an engineer, and then it could be that you hit two birds with one stone. But that's why this is actually a good addition to the system we already have. Study choices Denmark gets some opportunities, and they also get some muscles, some money to do so, so hopefully the individual young person gets the right education. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103843	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023103856	Thank you. In fact, I do not have much to add in relation to all the good that has already been said. Because I think that most people who are listening to this debate can understand from us that we think this is a very good legislative proposal, and it comes from a very good agreement. We have a whole lot of really good vocational training, and it only makes sense that even if you are in the process of upper secondary education or you have completed it, you can also get guidance on vocational training. Although one has taken a stx, one must of course also be able to get guidance to become a bricklayer, and even if one has taken a htx, in my opinion and according to the bill here one must also be allowed to get guidance on how to become an electrician. So I'm just so happy that with this bill we are expanding the area of guidance for Study Elections Denmark, so that all the young people who are in or have taken a secondary education can also receive guidance for our vocational training. Because, as many have already pointed out, this is after all about how we create a guidance system that helps young people to find the education that is right for them. This is good for the individual, and it is good for our society, and that is why Radicals, of course, also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104024	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104031	Thank you. I've been looking forward to discussing this bill today. In the SF, we have long been working for young people to have the opportunity, after a baccalaureate, of course, to obtain guidance on vocational training and not only in connection with the guidance they receive in primary school, which we in the SF of course also believe can be improved. After high school, students must also know that they have many opportunities for further training and they should know that they are allowed to take vocational training after they have graduated from high school. We have to make up for the fact that it is a problematic dual education or a waste of time for the young person to take vocational training after his or her Baccalaureate. It's not. This is good for the individual young people, especially if you look at how many young people find it difficult to make choices about education after the 8th-9th grade, and when we know that very many young people do not get started on an education after the baccalaureate. If more young people choose to take a vocational training course, it is not only good for the individual but for all of us. Denmark really needs more skilled skilled workers, and I think we'll get that with this deal. In SF we've been wondering why there was this wall and this leg buckle: that as a young person after the baccalaureate you couldn't get guidance on the vocational education and training programmes, and until now study choices Denmark has only been able to provide guidance on higher education, and that is why we are extremely happy in SF that with this bill we extend the Danish guidance area so that young people can get guidance on the vocational education and training programmes in the future. This will give young people a much better and more complete provision of counselling. It will open doors and break down walls. So I can say with great pleasure that we in the SF of course also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104213	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104221	I think it has become quite clear with the first speeches that you do not exactly go against the flow if you think that this is a good legislative proposal. We must always be careful and not just let ourselves flow with the flow, but nevertheless we also think in the Enhedslisten that it is a fine proposal that lies here. It would, of course, be a good thing if more young people chose to start vocational training immediately after completing primary school, but at the same time I think it is very good that, with what Mrs Carøe also mentioned, we are getting, I do not want to say a showdown, it would be so dramatic, but at least a very clear clarification that we no longer see it as what happened years ago, so it can certainly be an advantage that anyone who is quite clear about wanting to have a vocational training will go ahead with it after school, but we must not regard it as double training if they take on vocational training after having got the student hat. I think it is very important that, in the expectations we have of young people's choices, we do so, that we have a very strong focus on good guidance in primary school, and hopefully we will return to this collection to look at how we can strengthen the guidance in primary school. I think that is necessary, but it is also very important to recognise that we will hardly ever find ourselves in a situation where we can expect every young person to make the right choice for the first time. In addition to that, the social problem is that we are so lacking in skilled labour, and so it is good that we are doing both legitimate and worthy of recognition to take vocational training as a follow-up to secondary education. We note in Enhedslisten that we are not part of the agreement that it is emphasized that there is no reduction in the provision of higher education. We think that is an important signal to send out. I would say, however, just to give one tiny speck of wormwood, that we think it would have been sensible to find funding which should not be taken from quality development funds in vocational training. It is not, of course, violent means that we are talking about here, and with the need to strengthen the quality of vocational training, we would have liked the money to have been found elsewhere, but it does not change the fact that Enhedslisten thinks it is a good proposal and we will vote for it at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104526	I could, of course, be very brief and say that we in the Conservative People's Party agree with what has been said here and then go down again. After all, too much politics is also about common sense, and this proposal is common sense. Nevertheless, I would like to stress why we think this is really good and common sense and makes sense, and that is firstly because we are still a long way from our goal of 20%. of a youth year must take up vocational training. Secondly, there may also be many young people who choose stx, i.e. high school, because so many others are now doing so, and perhaps it is also the parents who say that you should do so, because at least you know where your young people are for the next three years, and it can also be difficult to understand the hundred and seventeen vocational training courses, but you know the high school. But then there is a secondary school education, and perhaps that was not the way to go, because it was perhaps a little too academic for oneself, and one really liked to have both the theoretical and the practical, and one has a cut that is not exactly what opens doors, and one discovers that there is a forest of opportunities if one takes a vocational training course. That is why, as the Danish People's Party said, it should not be an obstacle to moving forward, but not necessarily a precondition. Nevertheless, there are at least some good figures from the Labour Movement's Employment Council which show that those who go ahead with a secondary education, a hf, a hhx or a htx and into a vocational training course are actually 20%. of those who have such a type of examination have three times as large job chances once they have completed their vocational training. Thirdly, we are also talking a lot about discussing vocational training, but it is also a little difficult. How do you do that? But when you see that some people actually have a high school degree and then go in and take a vocational training course and they get a lot out of it and they go straight on to a job, I think it is also a practical way to show by their own example that this can talk up vocational training. So we think this is a good proposal and, as has been said before, it is not so much money, it is about extending the choice of study, and I think we will also see in the future that many more than 18 years are involved in vocational training. So it's not like that per se a youth education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. So we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104810	Thank you. On the other hand, I will be brief: we think it is an excellent proposal. Not everyone should have an academic education, and vocational training is fully as important as academic education, and if this helps to help young people get on the right shelf, then the money is well spent. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104841	Thank you for the floor. I simply think that I have become too old or that I have drank too much of the water in Jutland during my life, because we have heard several rapporteurs who present this bill as a sensation in line with a lasting solution to the tax authorities' problems or a fair compensation system for the municipalities or something like that, and I do not really think the bill can bear that. This is a good, small, sensible legislative proposal which improves and extends study guidance without giving rise to huge arm movements, and since it is, of course, the implementation of an agreement that we ourselves are involved in, we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104931	Thank you. There are not so many of us in the Chamber, so I would just like to ask that those who are here should keep quiet in relation to the conversation. Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023104950	What a lovely day to be in the Chamber and hear a stripe of both clear and passionate speeches not only put a thick line under the importance of our vocational training, but actually also send a signal to young people across the whole country that it is okay to waver in your choice, that it is okay to need guidance, and that it is also okay to get into one door and then know that it was actually the other door that suited your way forward better. What we are doing with the draft law today is supporting the young people who are there, in other words giving them the opportunity to see the full range of educational opportunities out there. Even if after the 9th grade you walked through the high school door and subsequently need guidance on what is the further way forward, it is clear that the guidance you receive must show the full palette, including the possibilities of vocational education and training, and also the really strong offers of education and further job opportunities that lie in that part of our education system. We have not been able to do so so so far, and this has given rise to an imbalance, and we are now correcting that. The bill itself does something really good for the whole of our guidance efforts, which, I have an idea, is becoming increasingly important in this time when a lot of young people report that it is difficult to make the choice and that they are in doubt as to whether it was right. We have just received an evaluation of a recording system that shows that education is chosen on the basis of some slightly biased factors and value something that is not actually about what is the best match for oneself, and there is guidance absolutely crucial, and of course the guidance that one gets must also show the full palette, including the opportunities that are in our vocational training system. So both thanks for the support for this, and thanks for a very fine one, I would not call it a debate, because it has been primarily a long series of speeches that have both hailed the many opportunities offered by vocational training, but which have indeed also sent out a clear signal that it is okay to need to go through one door and then go through another door, and we must of course guide and support that if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105232	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105248	The debate is open. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105302	Thank you. The Covid-19 crisis has already forced us to implement many initiatives in order to provide companies and institutions with the best conditions to adapt and to equip themselves and get through the crisis safely without compromising quality. It's the same thing it has to be about now. Because in the spring higher education institutions were hampered by decommissioning and restrictions resulting from covid-19, accreditation processes have not been implemented as planned. For this reason, a temporary amendment to the Law on the accreditation of higher education institutions is proposed, allowing for the extension of the accreditation period for higher education until 1 July 2021, with the entry into force of 1 December 2020. In this way, we will prevent educational institutions in the Ministry of Education and Research from losing their institutional accreditation as a result of the covid-19 measures that have been taken. This is a legislative proposal which, fortunately, has been very favourably received by the consultation parties. We have a responsibility for the same as we have in relation to other institutions and other companies to also provide our higher education institutions with a fair framework to work within in the wake of the covid-19 situation. The Social Democratic Party therefore naturally supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105446	Thank you. I would not like to see this become a habit, but I am in fact in complete agreement with the Socialist rapporteur in his speech, and I could actually go down from the platform. But that's not how easy it is to let go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg or others. Thank you very much for the floor and also thank you to the Minister for the bill that we are considering here. I think it is very sensible to create the legal framework necessary to postpone institutional accreditation beyond the six-year period that is otherwise applicable. The physical decommissioning of the educational institutions in the spring has, of course, meant that planned accreditation processes have been delayed and cannot be carried out as planned. The institutions are not responsible for this. In the view of the Left, as a result of the corona crisis, the institutions of higher education have undertaken a huge task of transition in the field of virtual education, the proper conduct of exams and a wide range of other measures. Time has been tough, of course, especially for students, but time has also been difficult and challenging for the teachers and thus the institutions themselves, and I believe that we, too, on the part of the Folketing, should recognise this. In our view, the way in which this has gone forward deserves a great deal of praise, and that is why we must, of course, also respond to the education sector with what we now have the opportunity to do. Of course, the institutions facing a new accreditation should not lose it as a result of the corona crisis. So the Left fully supports the bill and we are particularly aware that the Minister has incorporated a sunset clause, namely on 1 July 2021, and there we all hope that the world will look different. But the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105703	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105720	Yeah, it's a really nice day. There is a great deal of agreement, and I would like to say that I fully agree with the two previous rapporteurs, because in this particular situation and with the particular challenges that have been raised at the educational institutions, it is quite obvious that it would be totally out of place to insist that they have to carry out accreditations for which they have not been able to prepare properly. And I am also pleased that a sunset clause has been put in place for 1 July, because I think it is optimistic and delightful that we believe it can be done. If there's any change, I'm sure we'll meet in here again. So, to conclude, this is unfortunately a necessary proposal during the time we are in, and the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105807	Thank you. And we move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105815	Thank you for the floor. Then I'll make it four in a row. I am also very positive about the draft law; it is fundamentally sensible in the current situation to give a little more time for the accreditation of our higher education institutions. I also agree with what some others have said, namely that this is an extraordinary and difficult time for our educational institutions, for our teachers and for all our students who have had to act here during the corona closure in the spring and with restrictions and rules this autumn. That is why, of course, this bill makes good sense and radicals support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105857	Thank you. And we move on to Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF ups, don't fall!
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105903	Now you have to be careful not to fall on the stairs up here. Oh! Yeah, but let's go five in a row too. Corona has also hit the educational institutions throughout the country like so much else and you have had to send 250,000 students home. It has been necessary to target and prioritise resources for students so that they have been able to continue to complete their higher education, and the educational institutions have succeeded in doing so despite the rapid decommissioning, among other things. with virtual education and virtual exams, as we also hear from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. And, of course, as usual, it has not been possible to carry out accreditation-related tasks, so of course it is also quite appropriate that we extend the institutional accreditation as a result of corona. The SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105949	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I understand that it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb who is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023105958	Thank you on behalf of our rapporteur, Eva Flyvholm, and we will be almost monotonous to say that Enhedslisten also supports an extension with the same reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110007	Thank you. That is why we can now move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110016	It's not hard to agree when it makes sense. As our educational institutions have been affected by decommissioning, it is clear that they should not be able to meet the general requirements for accreditation. That is why we support the proposal as it has been put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110038	Thank you. And then we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110051	Thank you. New citizens support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110053	Thank you. And then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110100	Thank you. When I was a relatively newly elected member of parliament, the chairman explained to me that he wasn't president at the time... that sometimes you can get tired of making laws of authority, and then the Danish Parliament hits the table and says: Now we make a real law, but then it always happens that it has to be changed at the most inconvenient times, and then you have to waste time with it. That was a good advice to me from the President, because we are now getting an illustration of it. Now we have to change this law in order to do something that is totally reasonable, and of course we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110133	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110143	Thank you. It is now also very nice to have a few days in which we all stand together. Thank you for your support. The proposal itself is a minor technical exercise, and several of you have mentioned that, but I still want to give the backdrop for the bill a few more words on the way. One can say without blinking that we had a whole sector in our education sector, which was supposed to turn a supertanker in the spring. It is quite impressive how in a very short time you managed to make it work for 0.25 million students in our higher education programmes who had been sent home, i.e. to be able to pattern online teaching and new ways of getting together and getting the job done, to have experiments carried out in a laboratory, at home in a kitchen, and what else has been of challenges with exams and internships etc. It is impressive on the part of the students, it is impressive on the part of our teachers, and it is impressive on the part of our institutions. And now that the educational institutions have fortunately opened up again, but where the infection is still here and is affecting our everyday lives and has led to restrictions and, above all, restricting our social relations and the communities that are usually so strong in our educations, I am still full of admiration for the efforts being made. I am also very grateful to all of us for having dealt with the spring with the consequences. One of the consequences we are dealing with today is that some of what else happens every six years, namely the institutional accreditation for some, could not be done in this light, and that is why we are dealing with this bill. I'm glad. Thank you for your support and also thanks to those of you who, by the way, gave nice words on the way to our educational institutions. They deserve that. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110353	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110359	I thought you could help a friend in need, and I can see that the Minister of Finance is not here. He's got the next case, and that's not gonna work if the Folketing can't continue its work. I just want to ask the Minister for accreditation. So, is it the case that you reset all the processes that are going on? What impact does the bill itself have here? We have not really mentioned this. So, do you reset them or continue with them out in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110438	You get this to you, and there's just been some things and some parts about it that institutional accreditations that have either been delayed or have not been possible in this spring in the light of a total shutdown of some of these functions for a period of time. In other words, what we are at risk is a gap in which some of our institutions have no accreditation. On the one hand it is potentially a minor technical thing, but on the other hand it means standing without an accreditation that you cannot adjust to your education, that you cannot apply for the creation of new courses, and that you cannot meet the needs of the labour market etc., and therefore these institutional accreditations are central. So thank you for the question. Now the government is perfectly capable of being present, and I thank you from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110529	I think we all thank Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110556	The debate is open. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110604	Thank you for the floor. According to a legal requirement, Digital Post has been in a tender procedure and the result of the tender has been that the Digitalisation Authority has entered into a contract with Netcompany to deliver a new mail solution. It must replace the existing mail solution that we now know from e-Boks. The upcoming postal solution should provide a more simple, up-to-date and user-friendly distribution of digital mail from public senders to citizens and businesses. Specifically, this should show up by improving services and opportunities. With the bill we are now discussing, we are creating the legal basis for the transition to the future postal solution. It deals, among other things, with: the transfer of the mail of citizens and companies from the current solution of e-Boks to the new and always applicable solution, so that citizens and businesses will also be able to access their old post. In addition, it will be possible for other commercial operators to show the public post if they are approved for it by the Danish Digitalisation Authority. The legal status of citizens and businesses must be the same as in the past, whether public or commercial so-called viewers are used. However, the most important thing from my point of view and from the point of view of the Social Democrats is that with this bill, we make the Digitalisation Authority the system owner of Digital Post, which means that the Digitalisation Authority acquires the strategic ownership and thus also the full decision-making power in relation to the continuation of Digital Post, including development, operation, maintenance and management. And this, again with my glasses, is a good social democratic matter, as the common public digital infrastructure is socially critical in line with physical infrastructure. So in conclusion, I would just like to welcome the fact that the Danes actually have some sort of world record... we are at least world champions in digital communication with the public, for over 90%. by the Danes communicated in 2019 with the public via digital mail. It saves society a lot of money for postage and paper. In order to maintain the high level, it obviously requires good user-friendliness and, above all, a very high level of security. This bill, which the Social Democratic Party naturally supports, contributes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023110834	Thank you. Denmark is and must remain a digital pioneering nation. One of the great successes of recent years has been Digital Post. This is a solution that we are now developing to make it even better for the benefit of citizens, businesses and public authorities. With this draft law, we will ensure that the necessary legal basis is in place to allow the transition to the future solution. We're gonna have to, among other things. have clarified the framework for moving citizens' mail from the current solution of e-Boks to the new digital postal infrastructure. Legislation clarifies the responsibility of the Digitalisation Authority and creates the possibility for private actors to participate with full-service solutions in a safe way, which will be a service improvement for users. In the Left we see a huge untapped potential in the continued digitisation. We should be thinking both big and visionary and in the small details that each user benefits from, and that is why, as the IT rapporteur, I am very pleased that for once we have a proposal on here in Parliament that brings IT and digitalisation forward in our country. I hope there will be much more of that in the future. When we say yes to digitalisation, we must of course also ensure, with the other hand, that the continued high level of confidence in digitalisation among the Danes is maintained. That is why we will ensure during the committee work that the Ministry of Finance and the Digitalisation Board are aware of what huge task is now under way. The list of public IT projects, which have had some difficulties with the time and budget frameworks indicated, is long. We must learn from this, and this must not become another project where we have bad stories in relation to the transition to the new systems. For example, I carefully note that municipalities and regions want a smooth phasing-in rather than all parties, from the Children's Garden of Thousands to the State's wage administration, at the same time and from one day to the next, to the new solution. We must, of course, make sure during the committee procedure that this concern, which is out there, is unfounded because the transfer of everything at the same time is unjustified. We are also impressed by the fact that one of the parties behind the agreement on the joint public digitalisation strategy of 2016-2020, on which this bill is a follow-up, and here I am talking about KL, writes in their consultation answer that the cost picture is not fully comprehensive, even if I note that it does not shake hands with the Digitalisation Authority. However, there will be an opportunity to assess this in greater detail during the committee procedure. Similarly, a number of consultation responses point to legal grey areas and ambiguities, as the Danish Digitalisation Authority writes they will address in the final legislation. Whether this is done sufficiently will also be followed up in committee. In recent years, we have seen a number of unfortunate cases in which companies have used excessive resources and where public authorities have also used excessive resources, among other things. to implement the Personal Data Regulation because the Data Protection Agency has not been able to provide clear answers. We should not end up in this case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111159	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are now discussing is about providing the regulatory framework to take the next step in relation to digital mail in Denmark. And, of course, this is a necessary legislative proposal in order to implement the solution that has now been chosen. However, there are a few things that we in the Danish People's Party would like to look at a little more closely in committee so that we can be absolutely sure that this system will also be good in every way. We think it is fine that the Digitalisation Authority takes ownership back in terms of both security and flexibility. What we may be worried about concerns where data is actually located, i.e. whether there is any security risk by data being placed outside Denmark's borders, or whether we have to insist that it should be in Denmark. This is a bit of a problem, and we think it is very important that we have a handle on it so that we do not risk our data being in third countries somewhere in the world where others can access them. Then there's a very low-practical thing. One of the things that fills in the bill is what you call viewers, and it's being described a little like such a smart way to do this, so we can all have a lot of options. And I think it can be really smart for all those who are really very digital that you can view your data in any way you want to. But we also have a group in Denmark that is not so digital. It's both older, but it's also a lot of young people who think that this thing about going in and finding a digital mail somewhere is really, really complicated. One thing is that, of course, we insist on the possibility of an exception, that is to say an exception to the requirement to use digital mail, but what we would like to do with a new solution is also to ensure that it is so user-friendly that we do not have to make a terrible lot of choices to get in and use it, so that we make sure that it can happen through, for example, via. citizen.dk, or where it may lie. I mean, it's about not putting all the effort into saying that everyone can develop different smart solutions, but that we are quite sure that there will actually be a very intuitive, easy solution for those who think it is really difficult, but who still need to be able to go in and do the things that you need to do now. We certainly need an assurance that it is part of the further work and the further development of this system, so that the citizens who need it get the help they need. If we can get it right, we think that we will be able to support the proposal in the end, but we need to get this right in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Olldag Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111449	Although Denmark has made a great deal of progress on the digital agenda and is well equipped for the digital future, we are not in the goal, and there are still challenges that we need to address if Denmark is to seize fully the digital opportunities of the future. That is, for example, the case. necessary to ensure that legislation is adapted to the digital age in which software and robots enable large parts of the processing process to be automated in whole or in part. And at a time when data is the new raw material, the public must become better at exploiting the potential of data sharing. This bill is the implementation of the agreement between the previous government and Danske Regions on the joint public digitalisation strategy 2016-2020. Here the course is set for the common public digitalisation and for its interaction with the business community. Together with all the public companies and institutions in the state, municipalities and regions that exploit digitalisation every day, the strategy helps to ensure that public digitalisation creates value, growth and efficiency, while maintaining the Danes' high confidence in digital society. This is all very well, and the draft law allows public authorities and private actors to provide user interfaces, so-called viewers, where citizens and businesses can access their digital mail. We in the Radical Left think this is a very good idea. However, there are a number of relevant comments in the consultation answers, which I would like to delve into. There are, among other things: One that goes on to clarify the legal text so that it will be even clearer which public and private institutions and companies the proposal covers. That is, for example, the case. some of what is about self-serving institutions, which may be private in their organisation, but which are de facto acting as public. Both the Danish Regions and the National Association of Municipalities have asked for clarification of the legal text in relation to the decision-making powers when changes are to be made to the system, and I really do think that this should be clarified. Basically, it looks as if they are asking to be allowed to participate in these decision-making processes and continue the good collaboration, which so far has also been with the Digitalisation Authority. The tax administration's wish that in the legislative text we pay particular attention to the non-application of digital solutions by SMEs, I would also very much like, as sometimes hard hit tax rapporteur, to emphasise the importance of taking note of further work. But all in all, we think this is really good work. This is an excellent strategy and we naturally support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111725	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111741	Thank you. In the SF, we consider the bill to amend the digital mail law from public senders and to take back ownership and data responsibility to the Digitalisation Board as a starting point. This will, in concrete terms, result in digital post-solution being centrally placed with a public authority that has the overall strategic and management responsibility for the security of the solution and the use of personal data. And so it is with the hope that this will provide greater independence and flexibility than the previous relationship with the private supplier has made possible. However, for SF, it is essential to ensure both IT security and legal certainty for citizens. It is therefore essential that consideration of citizens' privacy and ownership of their own data should come first in order to ensure that the current public solution for handling digital mail is modernised. If we have made it compulsory and a prerequisite for citizens and businesses to have a digital mailbox when they are to receive mail from the public, then we must also ensure legal certainty and IT security. And here we are in the SF a little worried. Because we can see that both the Consumer Council Think and the Data Protection Agency raise some questions and concerns. And this is quite fundamental in relation to the authorisation clause to lay down rules on the movement of the digital mail of natural persons and legal entities, in relation to whether it constitutes an adequate data protection legal basis under the data protection rules and the GDPR. This is true in relation to the fact that the data subject must be able to object to the processing of personal data in other contexts, to the roles and data responsibility of the different actors, and to the question of what is critical infrastructure and what is not, and to the processing of data outside the country's borders. Of course, we will be raising these questions in the next reading of the committee. But, of course, we support the proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111942	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023111952	Thank you. I am a substitute for Mrs Eva Flyvholm and express her views. The Enhedslisten is positive about the proposal. We believe it is wise to take back the data responsibility for Digital Post to a public authority such as the Digitalisation Authority. It is our view that important digital infrastructure should, as far as possible, be under the control of the Community. Following this, we are relying on the Consumer Council Think, which points out the security situation for the next generation of Digital Post. Here we believe that there should be a requirement for data to be stored on servers in Denmark, and it should be clarified that the next generation Digital Post is critical infrastructure. In future legal proceedings we will raise questions about this and also about how access for citizens and businesses will be provided, for example. problems in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112041	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can now move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112100	Thank you for the floor. When I was preparing, I thought of 2011, when we volunteered as a country, that we should now be digital. That was a good ambition. Sometimes we also lost sight of a number of citizens, the elderly, the sick, many young people and more with a foreign background. I actually wrote to the then Finance Minister and had a large pile of very good input passed on, I think. Indeed, some of the input I made came from Saturday events that I held in my company, where we brought the digital forces together with the citizens in what we called digital emergency aid. Then we served coffee and pretzel to get someone to come, and it also poured in with citizens who needed help for everything from Skype, online banking, to small pages and check out lottery tickets and everything. Fortunately, we have now moved on, although I think that there is still a need for us all to be picked up and that everyone is involved in digital development. This bill is about something quite different, it's about Project Digital Post, what we know today as e-Boks, and which we all need to use and need to work. Let me start by saying that repatriation is not exactly a word that Conservatives usually like as much as I could hear from Enhedslisten's rapporteur they do, but it has been a prerequisite in this bill to ensure competition. In the committee's work, I want answers to how we ensure a proper and economically effective transition. We don't need to run this project into a wall, and we certainly don't need to spend more tax dollars than most necessary. At the same time, I would like to ask you very carefully about data security, and not least how the state thinks this time ownership of an IT system does not end up in the same challenges as we see with many others. At the same time, legal matters must be completely controlled, otherwise we will again have uncertainty and confusion for both suppliers and all users and citizens and, above all, for the data. With good answers to that, I am sure Conservatives will also follow up on the agreement and vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112259	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112314	I shall be very brief. In New Citizens we were not part of the original agreement that underlies this, but we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112329	Thank you. And then it's Henrik Dahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112344	Thank you for the floor. Yeah, we're gonna do it again. We need to take something that works and that all people are happy about, and then we need to turn it into something that may work and that may all people will be happy about. It's something we do really often with NemID and with e-Boks and with all sorts of other things that have to do with it. It is such a law of nature that we cannot be free from taking the chance and weakening the things that work very well, because the rules that are about tenders are above both the Constitution and the Lord, so we cannot go beyond that in the Folketing. So we have to take our chances and change this system and hope for the best for it to work. I doubt it very much, but there is nothing to do, so we will vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112438	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Finance, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112449	Thank you for the floor and also thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law and also for the good speeches. I look forward very much to the fact that the committee's proceedings will be able to go into detail on the issues that have been raised. I am pleased to hear that there is basically strong support for the upcoming digital mail solution. This is important because digital mail is a good example of how digitalisation contributes to the development and also to the efficiency of the public sector. With the new digital mail solution, the public sector will gain greater ownership of the solution. It also provides greater independence and flexibility than in the past, where the solution has been closely linked to the private supplier. In future, the public sector will thus have better opportunities to adapt and develop the Digital Post solution to the needs of the future. We also have better opportunities to ensure coherence with other public IT solutions. We hope this will benefit user satisfaction, and it can also increase the use of digital solutions. The upcoming postal solution is very much reminded of the current solution, but the goal is that the many citizens and companies using digital mail will experience an improved, more coherent and also easily accessible solution with a high ease of use. I have also heard that a number of people have stressed the need to be the result. In other words, users must experience that the service is getting better and the opportunities are increasing. As an example, it will be easier for users to see who the mail is from and what it is about, and it will also be easier to act on the basis of the mail. In the government we want to ensure a smooth transition to the upcoming digital mail solution. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to ensure consistency between the legal basis and the actual opportunities offered to citizens and businesses by the new postal solution. In addition, the bill seeks to ensure that Danes can continue to access their digital mail from both public and private senders in one place. Therefore, both the current provider of digital mail, e-Boks, and other commercial companies, can apply to display digital mail from public senders that is what was also mentioned in the debate as commercial viewers. When such a market is established for commercial providers, the aim is to make the public digital mail more accessible to users. The Danes can thus get more entrances to their public digital mail, which they can use if they wish. Of course, this does not alter the fact that received and shipped public digital mail is legally binding in the same way as it is today. This applies regardless of whether it is via public access to digital mail or through the commercial company providing access to a mailbox. The upcoming digital mail solution is scheduled for operation during August 2021, and by then all public mail will have moved from the old solution to the new one. This ensures that citizens and businesses will always have access to their existing public digital mail in future and that they have had full control of the State's choice of supplier. With the upcoming postal solution, it will be possible to take account of new technological opportunities on an ongoing basis. We can therefore develop the solution so that it is always up to date, and this is especially important in order to ensure the highest possible level of security for the Danes' digital mail • something that I also heard several rapporteurs be concerned with. I share that approach. As I said, I believe that many relevant issues have been raised in this debate, which have also been expressed as wanting to deal with in committee, and of course I and the Ministry will do everything in their power to contribute to that. But basically, I would like to thank you for the many positive comments. I look forward to working with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112842	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112912	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023112913	One of the important decisions we make in the Folketing is when we assign citizenship to a new Dane. We invite people into our community. We share with them the rights and obligations that go with them. It is clear from the Constitution that it is the Folketing which has to make this decision, and therefore, of course, the Folketing and the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Birth must also have a solid professional basis to be able to make decisions on the basis of. Nationality requires that you meet a number of requirements, that you acquire the Danish language, that you pass a citizenship test, where you show that you have knowledge of both Danish culture and Danish history • requirements that enable you to be an active and contributing part of Danish society. Some may then, for various reasons and for reasons, have the possibility of exemption for these requirements, for example. if they suffer from a serious disability which makes it difficult to meet the requirements. It is right and proper, but it is also right and proper that we call for medical evidence to be used as the basis for such a derogation. It is, of course, fundamental that there is confidence in the process of granting Danish citizenship, also for the sake of those who play by the rules and make an effort to meet the requirements, or those who suffer from a disability and need the derogation. That is why the government is now putting forward a proposal to introduce an opportunity for second opinion and now we are mostly speaking Danish here in the Danish Parliament: so a re-evaluation of the medical certificates which form the basis for the examination of the application for citizenship. Therefore, it is suggested that the Committee of Insights should be able to ask the Board of Patient Complaints to make an assessment of a medical certificate. The Board of Patient Complaints will, of course, be given the opportunity to collect the necessary information and will then give its opinion on whether one agrees or disagrees with the doctor's assessments and conclusions in the medical certificate. With this bill, I think we have found a very sensible and reasonable model which, on the one hand, ensures that we in the Folketing can get the applications sufficiently clarified, but, on the other hand, at the same time continue to ensure that those who are entitled to a derogation actually receive a derogation and that guarantees confidence in the whole process. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113142	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. It's sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113154	Thank you very much. Needless to say, missing or even wrong medical declarations must never become a shortcut to Danish citizenship, and the present draft law strengthens the possibility of checking medical declarations in connection with the granting of citizenship in derogation cases. Now the previous rapporteur said that it was a proposal which this government now put forward, and that is, in principle, correct, but I must say that the draft law is part of the agreement on citizenship concluded by the former left-wing government with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. And let me just make it clear that the requirement for Danish examinations and other requirements for those who want Danish citizenship must, of course, continue to apply, but there can and must continue to be the possibility of exemption if you have a medical certificate proving that you are seriously ill. However, the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Child must also be able to draw on the assistance of the Board of Patient Safety, which, with their medical competence, can examine medical statements if, for one reason or another, the members of the Committee of Insights have been called into question. I would like to make the words of the previous rapporteur mine. I think this bill is an expression of fairness and fairness, and that is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113320	Thank you. I just want to hear something about that statement that this is right and fair. In other words, I would just like to know on what basis the rapporteur thinks that there may be reason to cast doubt on a medical certificate which forms the basis of an application on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Because it is the case that if there is an applicant, you will get a medical certificate and it will be included in the treatment. If it is a doctor, who can be called into question about his care and carelessness, then there will be a matter at the Board for Patient Safety. To the extent that it does not do so, on what basis should it begin to cast doubt on the medical records of doctors?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113401	In fact, the former Minister of Justice Mette Frederiksen was able to announce in 2014 that there were a number of cases and I have the article here from TV 2 on November 20, 2014, where a specialist had suspiciously filed some medical statements that seemed almost identical. This gave rise to quite a lot of criticism at the time, and I think it is the type of case that you can see an offshoot in this particular draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113435	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113439	After all, I am quite concerned when the rapporteur makes the words of both the Socialist rapporteur and a former Socialist minister to the rapporteur. I assume that it is the rapporteur of the Left who is now standing on the platform. But if there are such cases, they must be dealt with in the system we have for it, both at the Board of Patient Complaints and the Board of Patient Safety. Because if a doctor's care and intransigence in decisions can be called into question, then there must be a case; then it is not only on matters relating to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. What this is all about is doctors who do not have such a pending case, but where members of the Committee on Bodily Rights may feel some need to think that there is probably something here anyway. And it is, after all, a rather uncertain legal situation to put a doctor in, that is to say, that you may be subjected to an examination, simply because some may have a gut feeling that there may be something wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113535	But that is a second opinion on the medical certificate that has come, and I think that is fair enough. In other words, if there is a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child who thinks that there is something that is questionable about either a single or a series of medical statements which have been made on x, y, z person, then I think it is reasonable that one can ask the board to have a second opinion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113554	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113557	Thank you. I recognise that there may well be examples of this in many places in society where you might need to ask for a second opinion, and I also know the case to which the rapporteur refers, with medical statements that almost looked like they were copypaste and that therefore a new assessment was needed. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur cannot also confirm that exactly the cases in question resulted in the fact that another doctor was actually asked to assess the applicants concerned and thus obtained a real second opinion based on another doctor's assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113635	Yeah, well, I have full confidence in the professional competence of the Board for Patient Safety, and I think it's a perfectly natural place to put that second opinion body.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113645	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113648	But there are very many places in society where such a second opinion may be needed. We know it from labour market issues, and we know it, for example. even from patients in insurance cases, where it is so little with reverse signs, in other words that the patient seems that the medical certificate does not live up to what it has to live up to. Is it the rapporteur's view that this system, which I consider to be very bureaucratic, should replace what we normally understand by a second opinion, in which one simply asks another doctor to make an assessment, in other words that it can also apply to people in the labour market or people in insurance matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113727	But listen to this: Getting a Danish citizenship should not be a simple matter. Basically, I think it should be a complicated matter to get Danish citizenship. And I think quite basically that if you want to achieve Danish citizenship, it must therefore be such a rather semi-difficult path. And if it is the case that you are trying to acquire Danish citizenship or even stay in this country on some suspicious basis, it would be better for me to be an agency too much than an agency too little in terms of being able to put the brakes on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023113816	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we are in favour of a very restrictive approach to the granting of citizenship, that is. citizenship. The nationality is the innermost defense of the Danish nation, and if we want the Danish nation to survive, we must make that defense very strong. And in the Danish People's Party we want the Danish nation to survive. We are therefore pleased with the many restrictions that have been made in the area of citizenship, and we would like to see far more tightenings. We propose this over and over again. However, there was a tightening up after an agreement in the area of citizenship in 2018, and it was about the need to have more control over the medical declarations that can give people who have not learned Danish easier access to citizenship. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party are opposed to routinely granting derogations to people who cannot learn Danish. But there are other politicians and political parties who want this opportunity to exist, and that means that if you can make a medical statement showing that you cannot learn Danish, you can get your case up on the Committee of Insights, where until recently there was a great deal, very likely that you would also automatically acquire citizenship. Fortunately, this has changed lately. But this meant that it was very attractive for some to obtain medical statements that could show that one could not learn Danish, and then one could avoid learning Danish. In any case, we cannot deny that it has been used in this way because we have had cases where there were indications that it was attempted to be misused. Now this mechanism has been set up with the Board of Patient Complaints, where it will be extremely difficult to abuse the system, and it is clear that we think it is a really, really good idea, and we think it goes without saying that there are such systems that make it difficult to abuse the system, because of course it has a preventive effect. So, of course, we support Bill L 59. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114045	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first from Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114050	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur considers this draft law to be something that we are adopting for health reasons or whether this alone should be seen as a form of tightening up the law on foreigners, namely by making it more difficult to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114111	We believe that this is a legislative proposal which is about ensuring that there is no shortcut to obtaining citizenship, in other words that the system cannot be abused. So we believe that this is primarily a matter of citizenship and not so much of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114131	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114133	However, there have now been several cases in which a conviction has been passed in relation to the breach of the disability convention. It is precisely the case that if you are to have a dispensation which is justified by the fact that there is a medical assessment, in relation to you, for example. If you do not have a certificate of nationality or a Danish examination 3, it would be contrary to the disability convention that you will not be granted a derogation. That is why it is already quite strict legislation in which we can say that we are actually moving on the other side of the conventions. So I would like to ask once again: is this merely a matter of making it even tighter and thus making us even more at odds with the conventions or in total contradiction with the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114220	Well, I strongly disagree that conventions must determine who should have citizenship in Denmark. It is absolutely crazy where it is, and we must get out of it as soon as possible. For of course, it should not be a disability convention or a stateless convention or other world-removal conventions that determine who should have citizenship in Denmark. It is the Folketing that decides it; it is stated in the Constitution. So, of course, this should not be the case, and I have no sympathy for automatically acquiring citizenship in Denmark because you have a disability. It doesn't belong anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114256	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114300	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether this bill will give rise to a general request from the Danish People's Party to have medical certificates re-evaluated in this new system?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114318	No, not to me, but now I'm not a health rapporteur. This is an idea that has arisen in the area of citizenship, to put an end to the gap or risk that exists in this area, because there are parties that insist that one should have access to exemption if one can get a medical certificate that one cannot Danish. I am not aware that there should be someone in my party who wants to extend it to other areas. But if there is, then we will have to discuss it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114352	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114355	I think the rapporteur misunderstood my question, because my question was just about the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where these matters belong, and whether the Danish People's Party imagines that in general there will be distrust of the factual and professional and objective assessments made by doctors, thus sending all requests for dispensation to a re-evaluation when there is a medical certificate. Will all applicants for citizenship with a medical certificate in the future be sent into this system to re-evaluate their medical certificates?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114432	First of all, there must be a majority in the Committee on the Rights of the Child who wants to do so before we can do so. Secondly, I do not see that there should be any reason to send everyone away. It is only, of course, when there is a suspicion that there may be some noise here. For example: suspicion arose at a time when there were almost identical medical statements about a large number of different people because they came from the same doctor. I think there is a reason why such statements should be looked at again. But I see no reason to send all dispensation applications with a medical certificate for inspection. I don't see any need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114526	Thank you. It is good to see the Minister here again in the Chamber. It's a shame he wasn't here when we were discussing tobacco the other day. Thank you for the floor. I am sorry to have to spoil the good atmosphere of the previous speakers. I am really glad that this bill was separated from the other good bill that we will be discussing here in a moment, because we in the Radical Left may not be able to support this in such a surprising way. On the surface, it may sound very trustworthy to have a second opinion, which among other things. The rapporteur of the Left was on the subject of medical certificates. But the intention becomes clear when you scratch the surface here. I have said before that I think health is far too important for symbolic policy measures to be taken in the field of foreigners, and this is particularly true here. It is clear that, in the area of citizenship, there are naturally requirements for those who apply for citizenship. There are clear and objective legal requirements that must be met before citizenship can be granted. That's fine, that's good, that's how it's supposed to be. But if, for good reasons, an applicant cannot meet these requirements, for example. because of a disability, the person concerned may apply for a derogation. It is already incredibly difficult to obtain exemptions from the requirements that have been made, and that in itself can be reasonable enough. But you can see from the figures over the years here that the proportion of people with disabilities who have sought and received the derogation has fallen dramatically. Under the current government, it is down to about 1%. So this does not exactly indicate that we have a very big problem with doctors who make inadequate medical statements to get people through on a false basis. Yet here we choose to place another leg buckle for those who comply with the legal requirements and who have come through the eye of the needle and have been granted dispensation. If the members of the committee have any feeling that an applicant and his doctor have cheated, the process must be able to be shot to the corner. In my view, this is quite unfairly suspicious both of the applicants and, above all, of the doctors who prepare the medical certificates. It is not, of course, a simple process that these people have been through, and it is therefore fundamental to my sense of justice that the guts of members of the Committee on Bodily Rights should be able to have this effect. I mean, it's obscene. After all, the problems with the proposed model are obvious when you read the consultation answers from the most relevant parties in this context. Look at the doctor's association's answer, look at the Danish Society for General Medicine's answer. They are asked to act as case officers and to take a position on matters far beyond their medical field. I really hope that the Minister will listen to these objections. In my view, putting the medical organizations in front of a political cart is quite unacceptable, and we will certainly not be voting in favour. But thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114811	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023114822	Thank you. Can we rely on the professional and objective judgements of doctors when making statements about human physical and mental abilities? Yeah, we can do that all the time. Yet medical declarations are often under discussion. They are so in relation to the labour market, they are so in relation to insurance and so also in relation to citizenship. We regularly see examples of the need for a new assessment. We recognise that. This is usually done simply by a simple re-evaluation by another doctor, i.e. what is also called a second opinion, which is a method which has also been used on several occasions on the Committee of Insights. I am therefore also surprised at the proposal we are considering today, not because I do not share the view that there may be a need for a new assessment, but because of the design. In the SF, therefore, we also have a number of reservations and unresolved questions in relation to the legislative proposal, which I hope we can uncover in the forthcoming committee procedure. However, first of all, I would like to point out that several consultation parties have criticised the short consultation period in their response. The draft law that we are now considering, as well as a number of legislative proposals that we will deal with later, have been submitted in consultation together with a deadline of five working days. The government must be able to do better than that, for these bills, among other things. This is the follow-up to a political agreement by the previous government, which could easily have been put into consultation at an earlier stage. In the SF we believe that there is already an authority to ensure that doctors follow their doctor's vows and thus also produce professional and valid medical statements in good faith and order. The establishment of a unit under the Board of Patient Complaints to assess the doctors' assessment can create a breeding ground for increased distance between the profession and the authorities. Instead, we should look at how we can support doctors in their complex assessments. And if you believe that there are doctors who do not provide professionally valid medical certificates, then it must be possible, as in the past, to complain about it in the current system. I know there are other patients who would like us to become clearer about that. In SF, we are further reluctant that the Board for Patient Complaints may in these cases require any information from healthcare professionals that is necessary for the assessment by the Board. It is therefore information which the public has, moreover, passed on to the health care professional in confidence and in anticipation of his professional secrecy. That is why, in committee, we want answers to what criteria must be met for a medical certificate to be reviewed, whether it is all medical declarations, and we would also like answers to how much a statement by the newly created unit is worthwhile in the final decision, and finally, I also think that there is a need to look at the administrative aspects of precisely this structure, which is asking a board which is normally intended to take care of patients' well-being, to take care of the well-being of the authority as well. With those words, I would like to express a strong reservation that the SF will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115152	Thank you. It is rare for us here in the Parliamentary Assembly to deal with legislative proposals which must be characterised as quite foolish. But I must confess that we are doing so, in the belief of me and the Enhedslisten here today. The bill deals with the establishment of a special unit under the Board of Patient Complaints to assess medical certificates in the field of citizenship. Today, there are extremely strict rules for obtaining citizenship. There is a requirement for length of stay, for self-reliance, for no crime, for a Danish test and for a citizenship test. If you do not meet the conditions, you can apply for a derogation, for example. be if you have been given ptsd as a torture victim. Then, of course, you will need a medical certificate in which a specialist carefully and indiscreetly prepares a medical certificate. Fortunately, we have skilled and competent doctors to do so. The paradox is that, although citizens are given a medical certificate confirming that they, for example, are entitled to a medical certificate. However, if they suffer from ptsd, which could make it impossible for them to carry out a Danish test 3 or a citizenship test, they risk that a majority of the Committee on the Rights of the Child refuses to grant exemption, which is clearly contrary to the Convention on Disability and makes the UN Convention on Disability systematically violated by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Yet it continues to practice. Now the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have decided and it is the decision that is being made here today that a new unit should be set up under the Board of Patient Complaints, which can assess medical statements, even if there is no reason to cast doubt on the doctor's care and care. It is therefore solely a matter of whether members of the Committee on Bodily Rights feel that something should be wrong. For doctors are already subject to professional supervision. Through the Board of Patient Safety and also the Board of Patient Complaints, which also brings it to the attention of the Committee of Insights, if there is a pending case with a doctor, you can obtain second opinion. This is already happening today. But that is not enough for the political majority mentioned earlier. A new unit must be set up. In the view of Enhedslisten, this helps to create distrust of the doctors. It is a further red tape of the process. It is a waste of the doctors' precious time, abilities and competences, and it is a breach of the protection of patients' data, and it is a really, really bad idea at all, and that is why I characterise the bill as both unnecessary and foolish. The Medical Association has previously pointed out that they do not want their professionalism to be intimidated and politicised through the new medical certificates for applications for Danish citizenship. Therefore, there is no need to reinforce that issue, for how would it feel for a doctor who is made aware that her professionalism is being examined by a special unit under the Board of Patient Complaints, without there having been any reason to sow doubts about the care and unease of the doctor other than, of course, a feeling of a member of the Committee of Invitation? I think it's a completely unreasonable suspicion. I do not see any factual or professional justification for this proposal, which is why the Enhedslisten cannot, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115515	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115520	When Mr. Peder Hvelplund, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, concluded his speech, I thought that this must be enough and that somebody has to challenge Mr Hvelplund. Peder Hvelplund. I also mentioned in my own rapporteur's speech that back in 2014 there was a rather comprehensive case of cheating or erroneous medical statements. I'm just quoting from this article from TV 2, which says: The Ministry of Justice has just discovered that a specialist has produced virtually identical medical statements in a large number of cases concerning foreigners' applications for Danish citizenship, explains the Minister, who has just presented the suspicion to the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Birth. So says Mr. Peder Hvelplund, that there is no basis for suspicion. But what does a case like this say, sir? Peder Hvelplund?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115611	I would like to thank you for the challenge. It's always nice to be challenged, it's like what we have a Parliament Hall for. I would say that this is what we have a system for, because it is not only in this area that mistakes occur, and if mistakes occur, we have a system of complaints where such things have to be dealt with. A doctor who systematically deals with his professional obligation to deal with cases with care and carelessness must, of course, be brought to the Board of Patient Safety, and then a case must be brought. And if there is going to be a case there, it is also brought to the attention of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. There may be a general problem with a doctor who does not fulfil his professional qualifications, but why do we need to invent a new entity which must deal only with matters on the Committee on the Rights of the Child and where the only reason to raise such a case is that there is something strange here. This does not, of course, have any effect on what the doctor might do, and that is why it should of course be the case that we have to use the system of complaints, the supervision that is already there, because such a doctor must, of course, be intercepted by that system. However, this is not something that applies separately to the Committee on Bodily Rights, because it is a general problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115715	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115716	Now I know the Enhedslisten's rapporteur just in this area as a man who cares very much about the fact that Parliament and the people's regime have something to say. And if one sits on a Committee of Insights and has some sense that somebody like to cut corners in relation to something as important as Danish citizenship, as Danish citizenship, Mr. Peder Hvelplund then not only, it is right and proper that one should have an opportunity like to spot it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115747	That is where we have an obligation to act in relation to the existing system. Why should we invent a new body which is solely concerned with the issue that may be related to cases in the Committee on the Rights of the Child? If we, as elected representatives or as citizens, have a feeling that there is something wrong here with a doctor, if we have a concrete suspicion that we can go further, then it must of course be brought to the right authority. That is what is meant by the concept of legal certainty. But to invent a new body in which, simply because you have a feeling, without having a specific reason for doing so, you can ask a body to carry out a medical examination, I think it is highly questionable about legal certainty, also in relation to the legal status of doctors, and that is why I think that the Left should also reconsider their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115834	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023115844	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is a matter of agreement. And in the Conservative People's Party we are very pleased that it can finally be adopted and the intentions can enter into force. The right of birth, i.e. the granting of Danish citizenship, is of course not a matter of course. There are a number of criteria that must be met. Among other things: You have to acquire knowledge in the Danish language, so you can get involved in Denmark, and so you have to acquire knowledge in the Danish language. can challenge a job. There is the possibility of obtaining Danish citizenship without having acquired sufficient knowledge in Danish, if you are ill, or if there is another medical reason why you cannot acquire such language skills. It has then proved problematic through some cases that the quality of medical certificates can be fluctuating. This could then perhaps lead to a dispensation in relation to the claim, i.e. with a medical certificate, which has been called into question. In other words, this proposal is a protection against cheating, and we are very pleased with that. You shouldn't be able to cheat on a Danish citizenship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120003	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120020	Danish citizenship is the finest gift you can get. And it is given according to section 44 of the Constitution and the Folketing by law. Unfortunately, for too many years politicians have thrown around with Danish citizenships to foreigners who should never have had them. And in New Citizens we say: Stop. We do not want to distribute citizenship to people from Muslim countries who we know are over-represented in crime statistics. We want to deprive convicted criminals of their Danish citizenship and to demonstrate them consistently and after the first sentence. We do not want convicted criminals to have Danish citizenship, and in short, all those who are not for the benefit of Denmark should not have Danish citizenship. That is common sense. But this bill is about medical certificates, and with the current agreement on the birth certificate from 2018, the government of that time tightened the agreement, so that we, who sit on the Committee of Insights, can ask for a so-called second opinion if, for example, there are several identical medical statements from the same doctor. Certain doctors, probably for so-called humanistic reasons, have been seen in the past to produce mass medical declarations so that foreigners could obtain citizenship. It must, of course, be stopped, and it must be severely reduced. That is why we can also support this draft law, which is, of course, a more stringent one. But in New Citizens we believe that Danish citizenship should only be granted to those who will benefit Denmark, and therefore my final assessment in relation to each individual case that we are presented to in the Committee on Birth will also depend on whether that is the case. And we will still vote against the annual mass allocation of Danish citizenship to foreigners, because we do not believe that the finest gift we can give should be thrown into grams, what politicians from the vast majority of parties have unfortunately done for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120239	Thank you for the floor. I was on the Committee on the Rights of the Child for some years up to the 2019 elections, and I can confirm what several rapporteurs have said about the fact that at each meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, you need to spend a great deal of time dealing with waiver applications, which come from some very specific doctors that is a fixed point in the programme; applications from some untrustworthy doctors are sorted out in bunkers. It is the kind of service you get from the officials, and then you sit and deal with these applications, where you know that there are problems with the quality of medical assessments. However, when you sit on the Committee on Bodily Rights, you also find that there are a large number of mental disorders which, strangely enough, only affect people from the Middle East and which make them unable to learn Danish. And nobody really knows why they only hit people from the Middle East and why they don't hit people from South America or the Far East or something like that. That is very, very strange, and that is why a very handheld effort is needed when you sit and look at the derogation applications. That is why I am pleased that before the elections we had a new agreement on citizenship that will help us in the very, very important work that it is to deal with all the requests for derogations. It's the case that you get a whole box of dispensation applications up to every meeting and some kind of help to look at these strange sufferings that have this strange spread. So it's really nice for the Committee on Bodily Rights. We ourselves have been involved in concluding the agreement before the elections, and that is why, of course, we support it now that it has been retabled by the current government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. All the parties' rapporteurs have thus been given the floor for this debate, and I can now welcome the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120450	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for your comments. I note that the parties responsible for the 2018 agreement on citizenship can support the proposal and that one party plus one for the parties that were then outside the agreement is against, and it is probably not quite so surprising that this is the case. I will explain the content of the bill. The bill proposes some adaptations to the health rules as a result of the citizenship agreement, and it was between the previous government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that the agreement on 29 June 2018 was concluded. In the agreement it was agreed to strengthen the medical diagnoses in connection with the examination of applications for Danish citizenship, and under this agreement the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child may, for the purpose of assessing whether an applicant should be granted an exemption due to illness, be referred to the Board of Appeal for Patient Complaints. The Board shall then assess the medical information in the case before the Committee takes a final decision on whether to include the applicant in a draft law on the granting of Danish citizenship. This arrangement is necessary to ensure that there is sufficient and real evidence of a disability which may give rise to a derogation from the requirements of Danish citizenship. In practice it will be done in the way that the Board of Patient Complaints receives the documents of the case from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, including the relevant medical certificate to be assessed by the Board, and the Board of Patient Complaints may also, if necessary, obtain the other information of the case, e.g.: record material and the opinion of the doctor who prepared the declaration. In the opinion, the Board of Patient Complaints is required to assess whether the Board agrees with the doctor's assessments and conclusions in the medical opinion which forms the basis for the submission to the Committee of Insights, and we know, of course, that the Board of Patient Complaints has experience with precise procedures, and thus I am convinced that they will perform this task satisfactorily and with great objectivity. With this bill, it is also proposed that the Patient Complaints Agency may provide information on its assessment of medical certificates to the Patient Safety Agency, which is to ensure that the Patient Complaints Board's opinion can also be used for the Board of Patient Safety's supervision of healthcare professionals and treatment sites, and that the information can be included in the basis of a supervisory decision to the extent that it is relevant and an expression of the doctor's professional activity. I look forward to the legislative proposal being passed through the committee, and I hope that it will be dealt with properly, and I will, of course, answer the questions, both orally here and in writing along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120754	Thank you, Minister. In any case, there is a request for a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120759	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now we have been able to hear from several rapporteurs that this is basically not about health care, but that it is about tightening the law on foreigners. I would actually just like to hear the Minister's opinion and reflection on the fact that both the Committee on Health and the Ministry of Health now have to sit and adopt restrictions on foreigners, in other words that we are using health policy to tighten up the legislation on foreigners and whether it does not create an imbalance in terms of how the tasks are distributed. That is one question. The second question is with what background one should start to cast doubt on the care and intransigence of doctors and say that there is now a special board which goes beyond the supervision that already exists. Well, what's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120850-2	After all, it is no secret that this is a coinage of an agreement on citizenship; it is a coinage that takes place. It is not so unusual for an agreement to be made and for the coinage to take place in different legal complexes, and here it is in the Health Act that this part of the coinage is done. The assessment is, of course, that several rapporteurs were talking about if you go through the media in recent years, that sometimes cases appear, where there is at least a big discussion about exactly these medical statements, and I do not think anyone can be served with the kind of uncertainty and discussion that is there. That is why I think it is wise and sensible to get it fenced in properly, and if there are no problems, then the fence is made in such a way that we will have an agency that looks at it and can conclude it, and if there are problems, we can solve the problems that exist, and in that way I do not see that there is the great value policy in it. I see it as a practical and sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120952	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023120954	It can be said that if it is now a question of ensuring good and proper treatment, then it is no secret that the Minister himself mentions some previous cases that have been made that we have also had cases with judgments in the court where Denmark has broken the Disability Convention, because, although there is a medical certificate which has been judged to have been made with care and intransigentness and thus is a valid medical certificate, yet it defies the medical certificate and refuses, i.e. even if it is contrary to a disability convention, which at least a majority of the Folketing says that one will comply with. Should we not then start looking the other way and then ensure that the medical declarations made with care and intransigence are also respected, including in the Committee on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121039	I would very much like to delve into that question, also in writing, in the committee's work in relation to that part of it. A unit has been set up in the Board of Patient Complaints, and what is being proposed here is how that unit is going to work on these specific cases. After all, they are working on their medical profession and they are working completely independently and with high integrity and high confidence, and that is why I think it is sensible to have that mechanism in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121115	The next brief remark is from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121119	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Now the Minister himself mentions medical professionalism and integrity, and that is, of course, very important. So I would like to hear what the Minister is saying about the concerns that come from, among others. The medical association, which fears that they will be tense to a political cart, that is to say that they feel a certain pressure to come up with a different answer than in the original medical certificate, and that they are made into a kind of case officers, where they have to take a position on questions outside their medical skills... does the minister have a position on those concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121149-2	Well, I always read what comes of input, including here from the Medical Association. And I think we should go with that. I believe, however, that if there is something behind it that reminds us of a mistrust of the Board of Patient Complaints' work, then I do not agree; I think it is an important board we have here, and I have great confidence that they are working perfectly We all agree that this is an important area, that is, the issue of citizenship, citizenship. Of course, the parties do not agree at all on how many and how to allocate it. But this is an important area, and there have been plenty of discussions and doubts in the media about exactly this element of medical certificates, and therefore it must be sensible to say: we have a Board of Patient Complaints, and let us get them to assess it in the doubts that then exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121255	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121257	I agree with that; it is an important board to have. My question relates more to the concern raised by doctors that they are now being used for something that they do not want to be used for, namely that they start using them to deal with cases in areas that are not their area of competence and where they may feel pressure to come up with a different answer than they did in the original answer. Unless you have some idea that there's a general problem with medical statements being cheated, I find it hard to see the argument for introducing this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121337	But there I simply have such great confidence in the Board of Patient Complaints, compared to they will not be subjected to any kind of political pressure. It should be borne in mind that it is, of course, a governing body which is not often involved in cases which have a high level of public awareness, and they are used to and have the expertise and integrity to act with high medical competence, and it is of course essential that they should be able to do so. But on my part, as a minister, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential that they continue to be able to work on issues which have great political attention and work on the high level of professionalism that they display.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121400	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121403	Thank you. I agree, in fact, that citizenship is an important area, but when I still have reservations about the proposal, it is very much a matter of construction. Because the construction is bureaucratic, I think, but I think there might also be some administrative matters that need to be looked at. Why is it that one has not chosen a second opinion, in other words, as one does in all sorts of other areas? There has probably always been the possibility of saying that a medical certificate was not complete and that there was therefore a need for another doctor to assess the patient once again, as is the case in other areas. Why is it that we have not chosen what is quite clearly the norm when we are in doubt as to whether we can trust the declarations that lie there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121500	But the choice that has then been made is a choice where it has been said: what do we have of existing governments that will be able to carry out this task? And I recognize that you could have chosen others when you were sitting there. It wasn't me who was in that negotiating room, but you can always, when you're sitting and negotiating that, we've all tried it in the Danish Parliament to figure out what kind of instrument would be obvious. And there are several different proposals. What has then been chosen is that it should be the Board of Patient Complaints, and I am fully committed to that. I think it is sensible and wise to choose them, because they have precisely the great expertise and experience in the handling of cases and in reviewing journal material, and that is exactly what we are asking them to do. So I think it was a wise choice that was made there in 2018, and I look forward to it being put in place, and thus I also look forward to eliminating the uncertainty about the cases that sometimes come up in the press, where there is uncertainty about whether there is something that can be discussed in relation to individual cases and to individual papers in different cases, because there should not be. It is so crucial that there should be no such thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121606	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121607	I think I heard the Minister reply here that if there is something administrative that does not stick with this proposal, the Minister is also ready to see if there is to be another construction. And in the event that it is actually considered to be administratively reasonable, can the Minister see for himself that it is the same system that should perhaps take care of insurance customers who are dissatisfied with medical statements that they think are slightly coloured by what the insurance company would like, or how does the Minister think this new system?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121651	I think I'll be careful to spread myself far into other matters here. What we are discussing today is only a task assigned to the Board of Patient Complaints. There will be a framework around it, and I have no reason to believe that there should be administrative problems with this. But it is always the case that if anything we do should happen, we will, of course, look at it, but there is no indication whatsoever that this should be a matter of administrative concern on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121728	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121749	The debate is open and the Social Democrat rapporteur is ready for this. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023121811	Trust is an absolutely crucial value in our welfare society, and this is especially true in our healthcare system: trust that we can get good care if we get sick, trust that patient safety is at its top, and trust that control is exercised to ensure that things are done according to the rules. But it is also the case that there must be confidence that doctors and other health professionals can do their job and that the controls that need to be carried out are carried out in an appropriate way and ensure that we learn from any mistakes that may have been made. We do not want a health system where all the time is spent on proving that you do not make mistakes and where no one takes responsibility for fear of being punished. It doesn't help the patients either. It is no secret that there has been a tense relationship between doctors and the Board of Patient Safety in recent years, not least after the Svendborg case, where doctors shared the message that it could have been me. There has been a desire for police reports to be replaced by constructive cooperation and a desire to learn from mistakes. Therefore, the government has now presented a legislative package with a number of concrete actions • it is a re-submission of proposals that were presented back in 2018 • to ensure more trust and better cooperation while strengthening legal certainty for doctors while building up new knowledge throughout the health care system. Among other things: A Board of Appeal is set up for supervisory decisions so that doctors can appeal very intrusive decisions; for example, it may: decisions on the temporary withdrawal of authorization, limitation of the activities of doctors, prohibition of work or suspension. This strengthens the legal position of health professionals, and I think that is in everyone's interest. Another proposal is to set up an advisory committee on supervision to advise the Board on patient safety about the supervisory methods and practices of the Board of Directors in relation to doctors. The Council shall, inter alia: consist of representatives of patient associations and professional organisations in the field of health. I am also pleased to read in the consultation answers that the health professional organisations generally welcome the bill here. Trust is also important elsewhere in health care, for example. trust that you meet a doctor who can speak an understandable Danish. Today, unfortunately, there are patients who have a bad experience with doctors with whom they cannot communicate properly. We must, of course, correct that. That is why we now state that it is a responsibility of the employer to make sure that the doctor speaks a proper and understandable Danish when he or she is employed in, for example, a hospital, just as the employer must also ensure that a number of other competences are in order when hiring personnel, wherever in the world he or she may come from. And it's for me to see perfectly natural and reasonable. All in all, it is a number of good measures that the Social Democrats can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Yes! Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122118	I'm sorry I pulled in so late. But it was because the rapporteur just mentioned this in the end with language requirements. And that is why I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with what some of the consultation parties also say, namely that it would be natural to impose the same language requirements on doctors coming from EU countries as we do for doctors outside EU countries. I am thinking both of language and of qualification requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122148	This is a discussion that we have had a number of times now here, both because there are some rules that we have to live up to at EU level and because there are some requirements in the health system. And the most important thing must be that all doctors, especially doctors, who have a responsibility to communicate with patients, can understand; that patients can understand what the doctor says, no matter where in the world the doctor comes from, whether it is from Denmark, an EU country or outside the EU. So that must be the crucial thing, and I think it is good that it is stated here that it is the employer who is responsible for ensuring that doctors and patients can communicate together at an understandable level. I think that's fine being determined once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122237	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122238	I fully agree with that, and that is why we are going to support the bill here too. However, in addition to the employer's responsibility in relation to it, there is surely also a national obligation to ensure that doctors who enter have sufficient qualifications, even in relation to languages. Otherwise, we run the risk that there may be places where there is particular pressure. And then it may be that there is an outskirts problem, where just to get a doctor to relax his qualification, that is to say, in relation to language requirements. Does the rapporteur not agree that there may be such a problem in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122310	Of course, we must be aware that there is no place in the country either where you are most desperate to get doctors where situations can arise where a patient cannot communicate with his doctor. A doctor may have different tasks. There are some places where you have a lot of contact with patients, and then there may be some places where you might have almost no contact with patients. And there it must be up to the employer to ensure that one can do one's job, that is to say that one has both the professional qualifications needed, but also that one can at any time understand both colleagues and patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122347	Thank you very much to the rapporteur from the Socialist Group. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. And welcome to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122357	Thank you very much. Well, by its very nature, we're only dealing with important matters in this high thing, yes. However, the draft law before us is not only important, it is actually incredibly important. Indeed, the main thrust of the draft law is the expiry of the confidence package that was launched already under the former government and Minister for Health. And the aim of the bill is to strengthen legal certainty for healthcare professionals and rebuild trust between healthcare professionals and supervisory authorities. The background to the bill is in fact the very sad fact that employees in the Danish healthcare system in 2017 and 2018 experienced that their legal certainty was challenged. And if you're going to be even more specific, in 2018 there was a verdict in what was and is known as the Svendborg case. Here a younger doctor who had been found guilty of negligence or carelessness in the treatment of a patient was later acquitted in the Supreme Court. And at that time the case caused the Danish medical profession, if I may say so, to withdraw the rhetorical sabres. The protests against the lack of legal certainty of doctors were marked, the criticism hailed down on the Board of Patient Safety Supervision methods. For doctors, it was incomprehensible that a single employee should be responsible for something that should, in practice, have been the responsibility of the management. And the main purpose of this bill is therefore, as I said, to correct legal certainty for health professionals in the Danish health service. Specifically, this law establishes an appeal board for supervisory decisions, in which a decision can be appealed against as a health professional if the Patient Safety Agency disallows the health care professional in various ways. An advisory committee on supervision is established as the body to advise the Patient Safety Management Board in its methods and procedures, and an initiative is also taken to confirm a professional forum on patient safety, which will be such a kind of learning space. Finally, this draft law also states that it is therefore up to the operator in the individual organisations to ensure that there are the necessary professional instructions in relation to clinical procedures at, indeed, the individual treatment points. The strong protests of doctors and other health professionals in the Danish health service made and of course make a huge impression, and it has also done so in my own party. In general terms, it is our view that working conditions are significantly reduced, with poor treatment results, if there is uncertainty and if there are doubts among employees, because they fear being prosecuted for something that should in fact be the responsibility of an entire organisation. In addition to the legal security initiatives, the draft law also contains a number of other matters. Among other things: The previous rapporteur also stated that it is the regions, the municipalities and the private hospitals' responsibility to ensure that the persons employed have the necessary language skills. And, of course, if, as I myself read it, there is also some debureaucratisation in the sense that it is proposed to simplify the so-called notification system for business doctors and dentists. All in all, this is a very, very good legislative proposal which the Left can endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122725	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. It's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023122740	Thank you very much. It is a complex legislative proposal in which there are a great many points and I do not want to list all seven points. What I would like to talk about is that it is really important for the Danish People's Party that when you are a patient in the Danish healthcare system, you are treated by competent doctors who do everything they can with the professional skills they now have to help the patient. At the same time, of course, we must also ensure that the doctors we have are protected from being accused of things such as gross negligence, for which there may have been other reasons. There has just been, as previous speakers have said, a case that actually started in 2013 in Svendborg, where a doctor, because of the urgency, gives an oral message to a nurse, who then does not get written down in the file. These are things that happen, but they should not happen, and they may also have far too great consequences for the individual. This has been a matter that we have been working on for many years in the Health Committee of the various Health Ministers, so this is a matter that has jumped between many ministers, I would say. We have, of course, when the case came up in 2017, when the case was convicted, that is to say, it has been through several different courts and fortunately ended up with an acquittal, discussed how strict a practice was in the area. We agreed that what was called the tighter package, which came into force in 2017, might have tightened equally considerably. We all agreed that when there is a doctor operating on a dirty kitchen table putting children and adults at risk, we must fight hard. However, we should also not have legislation to ensure that doctors do not dare to go to work, that doctors do not dare to take the risk that may just be what is needed to save the individual patient. Actually, we have doctors who have done something out of the ordinary. When we had an accident with a boat down by Faxe, some people actually said, "We're trying to freeze." What they did, I don't want to go into, but it wasn't something that stood anywhere. We also need doctors who dare to do so without fear of being accused. And, of course, we must also have an appeal board to which they can come, so that we can have a look at their case. Because if they are accused of gross negligence, they are exempted from work, and there is a very long time to go, and they also find it difficult to tell why they cannot get to work, and why: What was the reason? That is why I am very pleased that we have come so far and said that we must now have an appeal board. I would like some cases to be dealt with quickly, as some hearing answers also say. They say that one month could be good, especially when you think of doctors that we're missing around. But, of course, at the same time it must also be safe. There's a lot of moves in this, like we have to be better at learning from our mistakes. That is why we are also in favour of reporting accidental incidents while at the same time making it impossible for others to go in and see which person it is, so that the matter cannot be traced back to the individual. Because then it ends up with no one reporting an accidental incident. The last thing I want to say is, of course, the language requirement. This does not say as much about the legislation as we might want in the Danish People's Party, but it certainly says who has the main responsibility. This bill has made that clear, and then we'll have to work on it. I look down at the Enhedslisten, because we made a proposal together that no matter where you come from as a doctor, you should be able to communicate with patients, both understand what is being said and the opposite way, and that is not the case today. So there are some people we need to get our hands on. At least now we have a legislative proposal that says who is responsible, and in this way we will also be better able to make demands in relation to what we want. All in all, however, it is a proposal to which we can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123238	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123247	Thank you. We all remember the Svendborg case where a diabetic patient was admitted. Oral prescription for a blood sugar measurement was forgotten, and this led to a chain of unfortunate and deeply tragic errors, which unfortunately resulted in the patient dying because no one was aware of diabetes. This is the kind of unfortunate incidents that we must learn from so that they do not repeat themselves. How do we ensure that important information is not lost in this way? How do we ensure that the workflows are not so pressured that vital information is only passed on orally? In the best of all worlds we had learned from this tragic cause. Instead, as you know, things were going differently. The young doctor was charged with violation of Article 75 of the Law on Certification for negligence and carelessness in his treatment of the patient. The doctor came through both the court and the court before the doctor was acquitted in the Supreme Court in March 2018. It is no secret, as other rapporteurs have also said, that this case helped to challenge the relationship between the Medical Association and the Board for Patient Safety. Because it could have been me, as thousands of doctors reported out as a result of the case. In fact, the error that was so tragic is widespread practice in a health service where there is not enough time. Several doctors have said that oral prescription is quite common because otherwise, as a doctor, you have to spend time on journaling rather than on treatment, nor will it be of benefit to the patient. But, of course, the responsibility ends in Christiansborg, where we adopted the law of austerity and with good reason, because there are unfortunately examples of health professionals who should not have patient contact. They must be stopped and, of course, maltreatment and negligence must have consequences, that is clear. However, if there are • and there are other unintended consequences of the law, it must, of course, be addressed. Here came the confidence package as an answer to the criticism raised in the wake of the Svendborg case, and thank you for that. Because we need to focus on learning instead of punishment. The most important thing is to make sure that the mistakes are not repeated. Therein lies the real value to patients. This is something for which we in the Radical Left have been warmly advocating for a long time. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that there is still a lack of the promised evaluation of the tighter package, which I hope will be launched soon. The draft law sets up an appeal board for particularly intrusive supervisory decisions, and this is a very important part of the solution. I share the very positive comments that can be read in the hearings. It is important that we protect the legal certainty of healthcare professionals, while, of course, the authorities must be able to follow up on issues that could endanger patient safety. All in all, it is a good solution that has been found here, with an appeal board that can verify the very intrusive decisions. But, of course, there is always room for improvement, for example, whether the Board of Appeal should not reflect the health care professional with the relevant thesis if the case concerns a doctor. One can also see whether the type of decisions that can be tested in the Board of Appeal should be extended over time. These could, of course, be elements that could be included in a future evaluation of the law. In addition to this primary element, the draft law also contains another very important element from the trust package, namely a proposal to introduce a duty for treatment centres to ensure that professional instructions are drawn up in the form of management regulations on how health professionals should deal professionally with the tasks handled at the treatment site. This is another very important element in strengthening the legal certainty of healthcare professionals. In addition, there are a few minor, but still important, adjustments in the draft law that other rapporteurs have mentioned. It is made clear that the employer has a duty to ensure that employed doctors have the necessary linguistic skills on an equal footing with other relevant competences, and that makes sense. Secondly, the rules for doctors and dentists responsible for the business are simplified so that they are much easier, but still perfectly secure, to meet their obligations. That is also sensible. Finally, it is ensured that a group of authorised opticians who have further trained as contact lenses can obtain their approval even if, for various reasons, they have not applied within the given time limit. It is of benefit to both the patient and the treatment. That's how you can get so smart from reading through a bill. So all in all, it is a very good legislative proposal with many good elements that we in the Radical Left can support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123724	Thank you. It could have been me. ▪ This was the opinion of health professionals throughout the country when a doctor at the Svendborg Hospital was found guilty of negligence and carelessness by the Board of Patient Safety and without the possibility of appealing against the decision. It is, in fact, the essence of this bill that the possibility of being able to appeal against a decision of the Board of Patient Safety is an important legal certainty in relation to justice for staff. Because there will be mistakes, there will also be mistakes in the future, and we must take account of this in relation to patients, but we must also provide the necessary legal certainty for those staff who do not go to work to harm patients but who always go to work to do their very best. The case at that time had the potential for health professionals to use unbridled resources in the future to cover their own backs with meticulous documentation of what in everyday life falls within the scope of day-to-day cooperation, and this was worrying. However, the case was also, in my view, a bomb during inter-disciplinary cooperation and, above all, it could also have as a consequence that staff lost confidence in records of unintended incidents, which is a tool for making all employees aware of the importance of routines and methods of treatment. I am therefore particularly pleased that the draft law specifically allows authorised health professionals in the future to appeal to an appeal board certain administrative supervisory sanctions. I am also pleased with the initiatives aimed at improving cooperation and learning between supervisors and employees, and I believe that, in practice, they are already feeling that it makes good sense when it is the case that better room for dialogue has been created. This also applies to the clarification of the responsibility of the regions and local authorities to ensure instructions, define competences and language requirements, etc. That is why the SF also supports the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123941	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Welcome to sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023123951	Thank you for that, President. Now, of course, several other rapporteurs have explained the history of this. This applies both to the tighter package and to the subsequent confidence package, and to the whole movement around it could have been me, so I will not go into that further, except that I naturally agree with what the radical rapporteur, Mr. Stinus Lindgreen mentioned that we are looking forward to the evaluation of the tighter package, which we have now requested several times. Otherwise, it is, of course, today L 60 which is precisely about giving health professionals better redress through a new appeal board for supervisory decisions and providing health professionals with better protection in cases of accidental incidents. We support this proposal in the Enhedslisten because it helps ensure legal certainty for health professionals to whom the Patient Safety Agency makes intrusive decisions. Of course, we need to have strict supervision of our health professionals so that no citizens are exposed to unsafe treatment or are otherwise put at risk. This is essential for a safe and secure health system and a strong welfare society. At the same time, however, we must also ensure a proper and fair process for our health professionals so that they can really verify decisions that are seriously intrusive in their lives, and that is precisely what L 60 addresses here with the Appeals Board. However, there are some problems in relation to the concrete model that I would just like to mention here and which we in the Enhedslist will pursue in committee work. We mean in line with, among other things. The Medical Association, that the Board of Appeal must be taxed and not, as is proposed, financed by charging the individual health professional who wishes to complain, a fee of 5,000 DKK. It is also important, as other rapporteurs have also said, that the Appeals Board should be quick-working, which is also being proposed. But as career progression today is faster than in the past, 3 months seem to be at an extreme, so in committee we will try to shorten the processing time. We also believe, of course, that the name should be based on professional specialists in the field of the matter, so as to ensure a strong professional decision and high legitimacy in the system. At the same time, we would also like to give the Appeals Board the opportunity to resume proceedings if decisive new information comes on the table. These will be some of the things we want to pursue in committee. In the Enhedslisten, we support the protection of individuals in reports of accidental incidents. Persons reporting accidental incidents are protected so that we ensure that reporting on problems in the treatment, errors or the like does not have any consequences. It is important for a safe health system. However, in the Enhedslisten, we are also pleased that it is made clear that persons identified in the reports on accidental incidents should enjoy the same protection. It is important that we ensure quality control, complaint and reporting opportunities and a high level of legal certainty at the same time in our healthcare system. All in all, we are getting closer to that balance with L 60, although there are elements that we can improve and that should be addressed. But Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124300	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124315	Thank you. It is certainly a good bill with many positive elements. We will strengthen patient safety, learn from the mistakes and strengthen staff legal certainty. The proposal means tightening up in a wide range of areas. There must be clear instructions so that staff do not get into inappropriate situations; clear language requirements are being made for health professionals, and that is certainly also necessary; it is becoming more secure to report Uths, that is to say those unintended incidents, and it is also of enormous value that nobody should fail to report anything that is unintended, because then we will not get on with it, and then we risk continuing to make the same mistakes over and over again. Of course, we also need to have the opportunity to appeal against far-reaching decisions on the permanent or temporary withdrawal of authorisation, and then, of course, matters must be dealt with quickly. It is planned that it can actually pull something out, but it must be able to be done more quickly. Nor do we think that appeals should be user-paid; it must be possible to cover that from the state. And we also support the possibility of exemption for contact lenses which have not been granted a derogation. Overall, we support the bill and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124445	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124453	Thank you. I don't know if it is, because it's Friday, or if it's just because the sun is shining out there, but I agree with the government that it's a good bill and also agree with the Enhedslisten, because I actually think these are some relevant and good focus points that you travel, for example. I would also like to take a closer look at the question of user charges, which we would very much like to look at during the committee's proceedings. So I'm hurrying to get down from here before I get rid of myself on a Friday like this!
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124516	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124523	Thank you. After all, we have already heard from several rapporteurs how the work to strengthen the safety culture in the Danish healthcare system has been going on for some years on the Svendborg case in 2013. And there we have drawn in one direction with a tighter package and in the other direction with a confidence package, and now we have perhaps struck the right balance with L 60 here, where a safety culture is being set up in the health care sector, where health professionals can appeal and where the first response to safety problems is not draconian sanctions; we also know that from other organisations working with safety is not the way forward. So this is a very sensible legislative proposal that we support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124619	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. This has made it the turn of the Minister for Health and the Elderly to give the bill a few words along the way. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023124635	Thank you. Thank you for your comments and thank you for your very broad support for this bill. It is quite true that it has been a while in the process, it is actually the third version that we are dealing with. So it could be wonderful if we could agree that now we must also introduce it, because it is really needed. I would also like to be honest and say that along the way we have actually cut something out of the bill, namely the bill we were discussing just now, and that is why it is perhaps not the great art of agreeing, that is, when we cut out what we disagree on. But I guess that's a little bit more of a bill-making geek. To the content of this, because that is what is important: it is an important legislative proposal that is important both for healthcare professionals and also for patient safety. I mean, this is a big step we are taking. To strengthen the legal certainty of healthcare professionals is so much needed, and there is also a need to strengthen a learning Danish healthcare system with high patient safety • a learning health care system. For yes, it is important to have strong supervisory authorities that act quickly and effectively against healthcare professionals and treatment sites that may endanger patient safety. Nobody disagrees about that, I think. Well then, it is also crucial that we show confidence and create a secure and good framework for the many skilled and competent healthcare professionals we have in our health care, because these are the health professionals who every day, with their great professionalism, make a huge effort throughout the health care system, and which form the basis for providing high-quality medical care for the benefit of all of us. In order to strengthen the legal certainty of the individual health professional, it is proposed here that we allow authorised health professionals to appeal to this new Board of Appeal certain particularly intrusive supervisory decisions, in particular decisions on the temporary withdrawal of authorisation and the restriction of the scope of business. And this new Appeals Board, the Appeals Board for Supervisory Decisions, will have to deal with complaints from health professionals who have taken supervisory decisions of a certain intrusive nature. It is absolutely essential for the legal certainty of healthcare professionals that this possibility is now given, as supervisory decisions may have far-reaching consequences for the individual health care professional who is at risk of losing work or of having a limited income base. Another crucial aim of the bill is to increase the focus on learning. Health care must learn from its mistakes. Mistakes are made everywhere, of course also in health care, and the important thing is that we learn from them rather than just focus on punishing those who have made the mistakes, because it will of course benefit both health professionals and patients that we learn from the mistakes and thus prevent them. We therefore propose to establish the Advisory Committee on Supervision to advise the Board of Patient Safety on the supervisory methods and procedures of the Board. The Advisory Committee shall also make recommendations for future supervision by the Management Board. The initiative will help the Patient Safety Agency to learn more from supervisory cases and visits. We will also statutory Professional Forum for Patient Safety, which assists the Board for Patient Safety with professional sparring about learning activities. A third element of the draft law, which aims to strengthen learning efforts, is to increase protection against sanctions when reporting unintended incidents. Today, only persons reporting an accidental incident are protected from sanctions resulting from reporting. We propose that protection should also apply to the health care professionals involved in reporting. Finally, we propose that a legal requirement be made for all operators to ensure that instructions are drawn up at each treatment site to support patient safety. This initiative stems from the recommendations of the working group on instructions and responsibilities in patient care, which the former Minister of Health set up across the parties, and therefore thanks and praise from me to my predecessor in the previous government. It is the government's view that patients' ability to understand and communicate with the healthcare professionals they meet in the Danish healthcare system is a fundamental prerequisite for maintaining a high level of patient safety, and therefore the bill also provides that the language skills of healthcare professionals are guaranteed in line with other competences in the recruitment of health professionals. Against this background, we propose here that the responsibility of the employer and the operator to ensure the necessary linguistic skills of the staff should be regulated. I hope that the draft law will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, I will be happy to answer any questions that the committee may put to me along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125131	Thank you, Minister. And so far there is one question in this Chamber, and it is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125137	Thank you. Sometimes the committee procedure can go very fast. Now was the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen, please tell me that the criticism I have raised in relation to the fee of DKK 5 000 is in fact a criticism which has already been met in relation to the consultation answers that have been received. So at least we saved that time in committee work, and of course I would like to speak to the rapporteur of the Left for mentioning it to me. So I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that the fee of 5,000 kroner. has been tampered with by the bill. And now I have seen in the consultation note that it is also shown there, so I think the Minister can confirm that. At least I assume so, and otherwise there will be a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125218	But I can hear that there were two or three parties that touched on this, and that is quite correct and now the third time we are dealing with the bill, and there have been various rounds of hearings that it was part of the existing bill. We have managed to get it tampered with and find funding where we fund the community as a society, and that is the most sensible and the right thing to do. That is why it is a good thing that the Danish Parliament has periods of consultation when the hearings come in and we can arrange, and that is what has happened here. So I fully agree that it is clearly the most sensible thing to have that user fee out, and that is what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125251	That is how we thank the Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125309	The debate is open. The Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125327	The yellow health card is for many of us the epitome of our model of solidarity in terms of welfare. It is the card that shows that we are part of a community where health is free and equal; where it should not be the purse or the insurance company that decides whether you can be treated when the accident is out a health care that you envy us out in the big world. Of course, this must continue to be the case in the future, and for many of us this card will become digital. Digital solutions must be developed and used when it makes sense for citizens; when it can help ease everyday life; when it can give us a better overview and ensure us better against cheating and abuse; and when we can do the same as we do today, just smarter, easier and safer. The proposal to boost the development of a digital health card is for me to see digitisation at its best. I think, for example, that many young children's parents can nod to stand there with their child with the doctor and grope frantically after the child's health card and then find out that it was in the other parent's bag and that the other parent has gone to work. With the new law, it will therefore be possible to collect the children's health card in a digital solution. In addition to facilitating the everyday life of families with children and everyone else, a digital health card will also reduce the risk that the health card will be destroyed, lost or abused and that, therefore, we do not necessarily need to receive a new physical card when you move your address or change your doctor. If, for one reason or another, you are in favour of the good old physical health card, it will even be possible to keep it, and it will even be possible to have both, both in bag and in bag, so that you can both have a digital solution and have the good old physical health card if you like. In other words, there are not many good reasons for not supporting this proposal in my view. Before I finish, I should like to say that, as a former equal opportunities rapporteur, I must also just lift the tab in relation to another minor element of this draft law on parents whose children are being called for vaccination against hepatitis B, i.e. infectious hepatitis. In advance, it will not only be the children's mothers who will be informed about this call, but we have actually come so far by 2020 that it is also the children's fathers who will be informed about this call. I think this is a very sensible element and one, what can be said, small but significant equality of parenthood, in other words, that things that concern your children and the vaccination programme for your children are actually relevant to both parents and that the public is involving both parents. There were many other places and many other areas that should be noted. That's all from here. Social democracy, of course, backs up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125630	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023125642	Thank you. Now it is the case that neither weddings nor piles of weddings are on the list of commendable purposes which give citizens from the orange areas on the world map access to Denmark at the present time, but that should not prevent us from having such a pile of weddings here today, and this is certainly an illustration of L 63, that is a lot of proposals gathered under one hat. I am not going to repeat all the bliss of the digital yellow health card, which the Socialist rapporteur has mentioned, because I agree entirely with that. And we are also in favour of digitalisation's many, many possibilities, which is why an additional health card is a good idea, but bearing in mind that it is additional to the physical yellow health card, and the physical health card must of course not be abolished. There are also some considerations about this, not least from the Elders case and the Institute for Human Rights, in the consultation responses. The bill also clarifies and updates the tasks of the Statens Serum Institute, and it makes sense, in fact, that the Statens Serum Institute, even though they are very busy at the moment, has actually become a smaller institution, as long as the Institute's vaccine production has been sold out. It's a good thing, sir. Peder Hvelplund has left now, otherwise we could have started a very long discussion about it. At least that's the way it is. The bill also suggests that reminders of hepatitis B vaccinations for children of mothers who have chronic hepatitis B may in any case be sent to both the mother and the other custody holder. I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur that it is a quantum leap of equality that we are almost out in here, and then we will see if we fathers read what we are being sent. So to the last two elements of the draft law: one is about this, and I would like to point out here that the draft law envisages changing the rules for the transmission of information from the pharmaceutical statistics register, so that it is essential for accessing information to be the purpose, that is. carrying out research or producing statistics of major importance to society. I therefore agree with the idea that it is possible, like other national registers, to apply in the pharmaceutical statistics register on an equal footing. In conclusion, I think we need to have a talk and a discussion about the National Genom Center. We agree, in principle, that we must have the opportunity to get all the decision support from all the registers we can almost even get close to, that is, the fact that in the treatment of a patient, if I may put it that way, we are on the shoulders of other patients, of other courses of treatment. But we must also be careful not to constantly move the fence posts and the goalposts, and I know that during the time of the previous government there was a long discussion about what the legal certainty is, what the digital security aspect of the genome centre is. There I think we should be careful not to move the target posts, and I can also see that there is concern about this in some of the consultation answers. So I think we need to have a talk about it in committee, in other words that there is data security and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130039	Well, there were some who thought that there was such a great atmosphere and the sun was shining outside and then I come here and destroy it because I'm so worried. I'm sad, I get mad when I see that a bill is trying to trick something underneath that we've fought so much against when we made a genome center. This is exactly what causes citizens to lose confidence in politicians: this is the fact that a law is made at some point after a great many consultations, consultations, meetings of experts, etc., because there are citizens who do not want their DNA to be used by anyone. And I know this proposal doesn't add up to anyone, but we spent an incredible amount of time a year and a half ago putting these fence posts in order to make sure that if you get gene-separated, your DNA is cut up, and you can find everything about your person in a database, first of all you have to do it voluntarily, and of course you have to be able to unsubscribe from the Vævsbrugsregister. We had agreed on it after really hard work. This is, as someone says in the hearing answer, a slippery slope effect. And we often hear that in here, that is, when someone says it, people say, "Oh, come on, stop with the slippery slope effect!" This is exactly the same thing we have experienced in other legislations where we do something, because we believe that it is the right thing to do and then suddenly other things come under it, because we have allowed ourselves to do so; we have started it up. So when I read this proposal, I totally agreed with the consultation responses that say that this is not good enough. So, of course, the Danish People's Party will ask if we can divide this proposal up and have this matter of the genome center taken out, so it will be a bill for itself. Otherwise we will not be able to vote in favour of the draft law as it stands. We need citizens to feel safe in Denmark. Of course, we must also ensure this when, as one of the other points, we make an app for a phone that ensures that you can have your information on you. But I must also say that there is some mistrust, and we must also ensure that it does not get bigger if one app suddenly goes in to use information in a different way because one gets it together. If we are to make a solution, we must first of all ensure that everyone can use it, regardless of the smartphone they have, so that it can not only be used on the latest phones, as we saw in connection with the app that has been created for infection detection. We must ensure that it is not a network that can be hacked into just to get that information • a network where there is the most important of your own information. The good thing about the proposal is, of course, that it is voluntary. But if you start to have this mistrust of politicians and think that now it's voluntary, and when we've all come to that app, you suddenly make it compulsory, that's what affects people especially at the moment, and that's why we have to have that confidence when we do something in here. So I pray that we get this chewed through well and thoroughly, split up the proposal and make sure that it remains the case that when you register for the Tissue Use Register, your genome data cannot be used elsewhere, even if it is in the interests of Denmark and health, in relation to helping other sick people. That sounds really good, but it's your own DNA that you decide for yourself. It's one of the important things, so I don't want to go into the others any more. We can agree to a lot of the other one, but we have this obs in relation to the app instead of the health card, and then we decided this with the genome center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130509	Thank you. It is always difficult to follow Mrs Liselott Blixt, but I must turn to that. And thank you to the Minister for putting forward a draft law containing some proposals which I think are quite excellent but, as the rapporteur from the Left also said, in a slightly different direction, and we can see from the generally very positive consultations that have been received. Firstly, it will be possible to opt for a digital supplement to the physical health card, of which we are all holders, and that is, I think, a very good idea, also because it is a voluntary option for those who want it. So you can still hold onto the physical plastic card if that's what you want. However, the possibility of a digital health card solves a number of low-practical problems, just as it makes general accessibility better. For example, it would be beneficial to add information about custody and to have a copy of the children's health card on your mobile phone. Because I guess I'm not the only parent in the kingdom who's been standing with the doctor with my children while the health card has been in my wife's wallet, and this is a practical solution to this and many other problems. Secondly, the task description of the Statens Serum Institut will be adapted so that the Health Act really reflects the new tasks undertaken by the SSI. Because there have been a number of changes over the years. vaccine production has been sold out, a number of tasks have been taken over in the veterinary field, and there is now a somewhat broader portfolio in research activities. Thirdly, the children born of a mother with chronic hepatitis B will be better assured. Today, only the mother is informed of the possibility of vaccination of the child, but the bill will allow both custody holders to be contacted, which any other thing will be of benefit to the child. This increases the likelihood of the child receiving this essential treatment. The consultations state that care for the child must, of course, be weighed against the sensitive information about the mother's health, which is passed on here to another party. That is quite right, but I fully agree that care for the child must be the most important here, and this information is clearly relevant to both parents and, above all, to the child. Fourthly, we want to correct what I think is a bit of a peculiarity in relation to the National Genom Center. I can hear that there are slightly divided views on this issue and I look forward to discussing it in committee. However, I would like to say that, as I read the bill here, no new information should be added to the National Genom Center; it is suggested that if a doctor is to treat a patient and genetic information is already available at regional level, then the doctor can access this data and use it in the treatment, but if data are available at the National Genom Center, the doctor cannot access this data. This means that the patient is in a worse situation, and that is a bit odd. Because, in my view, the crucial thing must be what kind of information is involved and what the purpose is, and not in which database information happens to be. It is also important to emphasise that this is not a question of sharing information with others. It is only the treating physician who is given access to information relevant to the treatment of the patient that the doctor has. So I think it is quite reasonable, but I am happy to discuss this relatively complicated issue in committee. In general, I think that is always exciting. Fifthly, we are going to make a much needed change in terms of access to data from the very well-known pharmaceutical statistics register. Today, due to a slightly unlucky narrowing of the population mentioned in the Pharmacy Act, a circle of very relevant researchers has been cut off from accessing data from precisely the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register. This narrowing is now being lifted by this bill. Of course, there must still be relevant research projects, and they must, of course, comply with GDPR rules and so on, but it was this amendment that was recommended in the evaluation that was just last year. So I think it is quite a sensible part to include in this bill. So all in all, I think that these are five quite sensible measures that we in the Radical Left support, and I look forward to discussing once again the National Genom Center and genetics in the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023130930	Thank you. As has already been said, the draft law we are discussing here contains several elements. Among other things, it contains: a proposal for a digital health card. And in these digital times, I think a lot of people are looking for a digital health card. That part of the proposal supports the SF, however, with a clarification that it must be voluntary and that access to the physical card still needs to be provided. And for the record, digital health cards should not be activated with fingerprints or the like. It also makes good sense with the purpose rules of the Statens Serum Institute and with reminders to both parents about time for vaccines and such. That is why I go straight to some of what I, in turn, have a number of questions for. I believe that there is a need to continue working on the proposals on the access of authorised healthcare professionals to obtain genetic information held at the National Genom Center. As a starting point, I am concerned about extending access to the national genome centre. When the center was created, it was precisely for the purpose of a sharp fence due to various ethical considerations and, as DSAM writes, it goes towards the finalité principle. In addition, the disclosure of information can be waived, as I understand it, which underlines the criticalness of both DSAM and the Consumer Council Think writes. There seems, according to the consultation answers, to be disagreement, in relation to whether pseudonymisation either prevents the purpose or does not provide good enough data protection. If the purpose is data protection, I am concerned about whether pseudonymisation is good enough. In addition to all the above, I am concerned about making an authorisation clause in which the Minister himself sits and gives access. If access is to be granted, the Folketing should take a decision from time to time. In relation to the disclosure of pharmaceutical information for research and statistics purposes, as DSAM and the Medical Association also write, there is a relevant concern regarding data protection and security, and I may be concerned about whether pseudonymisation is sufficient. Both also express concerns about the lack of transparency • both in relation to research projects and whether data is being accessed abroad. In addition, I again agree with DSAM that as a citizen one should be able to opt-out or even better opt-out of the possibility of transmitting data, preferably one should be able to choose what data is to be passed on to. That is why I believe that this draft law also gives rise to some of these reservations being discussed in committee. These, as previous rapporteurs have already mentioned, are matters that we have discussed quite many times and very, very in depth when we set up the national genome centre. I myself supported the argument that the national genome centre should ensure that in the future we had a much safer data processing of patients' DNA compared to what the regions have managed so far, where they have each had their own system, and I still think this is a good argument for the national genome centre. But all the more so, of course, we must also stick to the fact that the national genome centre can actually do what we asked for and which we decided when we set up the national genome centre. So I look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131334	Thank you for that, President. Now I just stood and looked out the window, and I can see that the sun has stopped shining and that it has become rainy. I do not think that can be justified solely by the approach we have to it in this Chamber, but it may well be that I am going to contribute a little to the climate of rain. After all, we are currently dealing with L 63, which will introduce a voluntary digital supplement to the physical health card, and which will also facilitate access to the genetic information stored in the National Genom Center. I might as well say right away that the Enhedslisten, like the Danish People's Party, wants the bill split up, so we are voting separately on the provisions relating to the National Genom Center. We do so partly because we can support the rest of L 63, but not the opening up of access to the genetic information of citizens in the centre, partly because there is no logical link between it and the rest of the legislative proposal. First to the positive part: in relation to the digital supplement to the yellow health card we warmly support it. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that we must take advantage of the digital opportunities that technology offers us to make life easier for citizens also when we can. Many will see the voluntary digital supplement to the health card as a small thing that makes everyday life easier. We also attach great importance to the fact that it is both voluntary and therefore also a supplement and that you will still be able to use your old physical health card. There are many people in our society who are not familiar with the new digital reality. 200,000 older people are not online, many on the ground do not have the resources and money to stay digitally up-to-date, buy and maintain a smartphone or understand the new digital guidelines. This may also apply to people with different degrees of disability. Those people are also some who are very close to us in the Enhedslisten. Sometimes we forget them a little in our debates in the Parliamentary Chamber, so although we warmly support the proposal, we will keep in mind in committee that the government's objective of quotes is, in the long term, to reduce the number of health cards issued, not in the long term and, in reality, to hit the weakest in society. At the same time, we will be aware that the health card is also used by many for purposes other than proof of entitlement to health benefits, and that they are also remembered and thought into legislation. So, with these reservations, this is something that we will continue to work on in committee so that it is also considered in the legislative proposal, because it is absolutely crucial that it is seen as a supplement and that it is not more difficult to use the physical health card. In relation to the provisions of the National Genom Center, the Enhedslisten does not support the fact that we facilitate access to citizens' genetic data in the Centre. From the outset, in the Enhedslisten, we have voted against the creation of a national collection of citizens' genetic data, because it may be abused and may have incalculable consequences. At that time, the argument that led other parties to vote in favour, at least in my view, and I think I can also hear in today's debate, was that the centre should only be used for very specific and limited purposes. Now we are beginning to make it easier to access citizens' data step by step, and many times it is for a worthy purpose that can easily be explained in the individual case, but the course becomes problematic because it has far-reaching and incalculable consequences, as several organisations also warn. When the National Genom Center was adopted by a majority in the Folketing, it was of course with the clear premise that there was a clear and limited purpose in the collection of data, and the problem becomes that if we gradually start to hollow it out and with a salami method slices some parts of it, it loses just like the legitimacy it had from the beginning. That was among other things. the concern we had in the Enhedslisten and that is why we voted against it, but I think it is worth considering so much for the majority of the Folketing which has supported the National Genom Center that this is not going to be the path we are starting to move down. This is, in principle, absolutely crucial, and it is very crucial that the data contained in the National Genom Center are those who enjoy a high level of protection in relation to the individual citizen. Finally, I can say that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal, except for the part concerning the National Genom Center, and so I would like to ask that we split up the bill so that we can vote in favour of the part that we consider positive and that we can vote against the part that concerns the National Genom Center.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131840	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131845	Thank you. It was probably mostly just because of the rapporteur's explanation of what the genome centre was really meant for. I mean, I'm still thinking about it as an improvement in what you've had in the past. Resequencing has taken place in the regions, and the regions themselves have had their own systems for storing these very sensitive data, and there was the idea that the genome centre should actually assure patients that data were well taken care of. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could agree that, after all, it is better for us to have national plans for how to take good care of citizens' DNA than for us to have random storage systems in the regions just for the sake of good order.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023131936	Yes, but now it can be said that we have had the debate on the centre of genomes, both the advantages and the disadvantages in relation to it, and there we ended up with a different position, although we agree with the dilemmas that lie in it. I think that what is crucial in relation to L 63 here is precisely that when it was then adopted by a majority in the Folketing, it was just as if there were a clearly defined purpose and that we had to protect citizens' data. The concern I think lies in relation to the specific proposal here is that we risk slowly starting to undermine it, as we do, for example. has seen it in relation to crime, and if it can be used in relation to terrorist investigation, then it can be used in relation to murder investigation and where the limit lies in relation to it. That is the concern I would like to raise in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132025	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132037	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, it is a slightly mixed bouquet that we are dealing with here, but of course a legislative proposal which contains a number of sensible proposals. It is quite natural to give citizens the opportunity to choose a digital health card, but here we should remember that the health card, as it is still called in daily speech, is also used as an ID at least in some places, and we have actually had a wish that you should have the possibility of photo ID on the health card, so that you were quite sure that it was the person who pretended to be the owner of the health card with whom you were in contact. So I think that issue is a little interesting. The tasks of the State Serum Institute have changed, and therefore the tasks should also be clarified and updated in the legislation. Vaccination against hepatitis B of the children born to mothers with chronic hepatitis B is, of course, important, which is why information should of course be given to both parents. As regards the collection of genetic data by authorised health professionals, it is obvious that the same rules apply to the collection of information in the regional registers and in the National Genom Center. The change in access to the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register, which is proposed in the future in line with access to the National Health Data Protection Agency's other national health records, is quite reasonable, so that important research can be carried out effortlessly. Of course, the security of the citizens' genomes must never be called into question. Overall, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132249	Thank you. When I stood down there waiting for me to be on the platform, I couldn't help looking up at the young people up there in the gallery. You simply have to think: Wow, that was the most exciting debate we have had on a Friday afternoon in this Chamber. But that is what parliamentary work is sometimes like. There are also times when there is not an insanely tough debate in here, but where the subject is a little more technical. So I am sorry that we cannot have the big debate for those who have come here today. I can hear that there are some who have slightly different views on what the content of this proposal is, so I think it is very sensible that we should have a look at the work of the committee. Then there is a desire to divide up the proposal. There we have the principle in New Citizens that when there are some parties that want it, we always support it even if other parties do not do so when New Citizens want us to divide them up. But there we are a little different. So with that: Good weekend also to those who have come here as listeners and let us look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132344	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is true that we have a little technical debate today, that is to say. But that's the way it is sometimes. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132357	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, I also see this draft law as first and foremost a technical legislative proposal, which means that common sense will become a little more widespread than it is before the draft law is adopted. That's why we support L 63. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023132429	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for your support for the bill. It is quite true that there are a large number of sub-proposals, and I acknowledge the criticism of the elements I heard there was criticism of, and I will return to them a little later in my speech here. But it is a wide range of legislative proposals, and it is true that sometimes we legislate some technology, but there are some good elements in the technique. I think they are all good, but I will just go over some of them, and then I will come back to what has caused criticism in the first reading here. The first element, digitally supplementing the health card, makes it possible to use a digital supplement to the yellow physical health card we know and is a voluntary offer and it is important to emphasise it. I guess you can compare it a little with, for example. NemID, we used to have on such a piece of laminated paper, and now many of us use it on our phone, and that's a pretty big win for us. I am sure that many people will find it a relief, and I think that is what my own family seems to be doing when it comes to finding our kids' health cards and so on. I can't wait to get this in place with us. Then I would like to say that my speech, which has been written by good officials, says that a digital supplement to the health card is also a concrete example of the public's keeping up with time and adapting the needs of citizens. It's very well written by the officials sitting in the lodge. I am not quite sure that all citizens necessarily think that this is the case all the time, but when it does, it has to be highlighted. So thank you for pointing out that progress is being made, even when the public is responsible. I therefore make those words mine too. Second, the bill also proposes to clarify and update the activities of the Statens Serum Institute so that the changes that the Institute has undergone in recent years comply with this in relation to tasks and purposes. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... The aim is that the law reflects the activities of the Statens Serum Institut and that the purpose clause describes exactly the tasks actually carried out by the Institute. Very, very sensible and wise to get it done. Thirdly, the draft law proposes to extend the possibility of sending reminders to parents about recommended child vaccinations to ensure as high as possible vaccination connection. We can see that in recent years support for the child vaccination programme has improved, and that is good, among other things. because letters are sent out to parents reminding them of the vaccinations, and this proposal allows the CDC to send reminders before the time of a recommended child vaccination, and this should improve the connection. We look forward to that too. The fourth element suggests that genetic information stored in the National Genom Center should also be available for decision support in relation to a specific patient treatment and thus strengthen the diagnostic process for the benefit of patients and we are now in the process of the elements that I have heard there is scepticism about, and perhaps even opposition to. As the rules are today, it is not crucial what kind of information is involved, but only where information is maintained. The very same genetic information will be covered by the decision support authorisation clause if it is stored in a regional electronic system but not if it is stored in the national information structure of a national genome centre. After all, the purpose of decision support is to support the health professional in making the best possible health professional decision in a specific treatment situation and thus to support the health professional in making a correct diagnosis. This will, of course, help to provide patients with rare diseases with the best opportunities to have the specific diagnosis as soon as possible and to be offered the best option for treatment. The fifth and final element of the bill is a proposal to allow more researchers to access information from the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register which can be attributed to patients. There is currently a restriction on access to patient-readable data from the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register, which does not apply to other national health records, and the proposal abolishes this restriction so that access to the Pharmaceutical Statistics Register is equated with access to the other national health registers. This will ensure that researchers can gain greater knowledge of the effects of medicinal products, both intended and unintended, without subjecting patients to clinical trials, and that is also for us to see a clear advantage. Then it says at the end of my speech: I hope that the draft law will be dealt with properly and that I will put questions to you. Before I thank the President-in-Office of the Council, however, I would like to say, as I have announced, that I have, of course, heard the critical voices about the concerns that exist, and I think we should take them very, very seriously. Because I fully agree that we are not served by scepticism and concern about how our health data is stored and how they are used. At the same time, as Parliament, we must also have a huge interest in the fact that the information we have is actually being used in a safe and secure and proper way for the benefit of those patients who are often in a life-threatening situation and have rare diagnoses, people who really have families that are completely destroyed and where we have the information, but because they are in one register and not in another, they must not be used. I find that difficult to defend in this situation. But of course it must be done in a perfectly proper way where there is security and security about it. If there is an amendment from the committee to separate the proposal, which says that we are separating it here, so that we separate these individual elements into two different legislative proposals, then I would ask my officials to do it in such a way that we can have a separate discussion and we can have bored out and hopefully also removed some of the nervousness about the criticisms that might have been and have a good and thorough discussion of that element. That is the answer to what I started by saying, namely that I have listened to the fact that the element of disagreement and criticism we are proposing to address in this way. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133118	There is just one brief comment on Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133123	Thank you. I just thought I'd drill out a little bit compared to this. Because if someone is listening and thinks it's an interesting debate, I would say that it might sound as if, when you get this gene sequencing done, it's just to help you; it is also in the first place. But what the Minister says you can come and help with is, compared to if someone needs data from one person to heal another person. And that is where we say: well, it must and must be the consent of the individual who decides whether to do so. That's what's problematic, because who owns this data? And I know that the Minister is apologized because the Minister was not involved in this matter of the genome centre when we had the debate. So it may also be some civil servants, it's about "and then I'll look over there," which means that I put it in this bill. That is why we need to have the debate again, because of course we need a centre that we trust is just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133227	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133232	Thank you for your comment. I think we are doing it, because it should not be called in any way, that you try to put something under something else and take it out completely and say that the element we address so independently, in an independent course, and I look very, very much forward to doing so. And it is quite true that it is not just for the individual • i.e. for the data. This also applies if you are being treated by a doctor. After all, the doctor obtains some knowledge from the treatment that has then been carried out and the doctor uses that experience further in patients with other patients. In my view, it is one of the same things that happens here, compared to if there is something that can benefit others without being exposed, or without anyone knowing which person it is about, so that it can be abused. That is what we must ensure that it does not become, so that this information is not misused. However, this is still particularly important in relation to the rare diagnoses, which I know the Danish Parliament's Health Committee is quite rightly very concerned about, because people with rare diagnoses have particularly difficult challenges many times and very serious illnesses. And it is especially here that it may be relevant to gain some experience from other patients in similar situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133335	Liselott Blixt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133339	This time I'm gonna start asking the questions. I agree with Conservatives that we should have both photos and fingerprints on our health cards. Is this something to be considered in relation to the future? Because you use it in a lot of places. It can also help some of those who have neither passports nor driving licences to legitimise themselves. Another thing I've been wondering about is when, as a grandmother, I take my granddaughter to the doctor. How do you do that if both parents feel about it on the phone? I can't take their phone with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133405	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133409	To the first question: there are no proposals in this respect to change the physical health card itself. I have to say that I think we already have too many cards. We also have the blue, and we have the yellow, and my own personal attitude and my political attitude are: the simpler for the citizen, the better. And I think this is worth an independent debate, which is not just about health, but is an independent debate. You can almost fill your wallet with different plastic cards from the government. I think that is extreme, that is, what we have at the moment. But if you come as a relative, as grandparents, that is not the parents, you have to have the physical card with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133445	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133451	In relation to the card thing, I think that you could make some step two, which was about collecting all the public cards in one map, including perhaps also providing them with image ID, pictures on the map, etc., and, as I understand from a former health minister, I know quite well, there have also been some economic challenges in this. Could the Minister imagine that we were doing a technical review about the genome center? Because this isn't just about who it is you share data with, but it's also about what kind of data assumes when you share them with each other. So in addition to having it split up, I think it's a super idea... you could also do a technical review or some other kind of brush-up when it comes to the question of how it really was with that genome center, and what kind of data you could imagine you could share and with whom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133545	Firstly, whether or not I share the comment that there is also some economy: yes, I do. I myself was a member of the Folketing, but not a member of the Health Committee when it was decided to have two health cards introduced, both yellow and blue, and there was obviously something about economics, and I think that makes good sense when you sit at Slotsholmen and in the Folketing and in some ministries. I just have to say with regard to the ordinary Dane and with regard to the economy used in society, that you have to have both cards, that I do not necessarily think it is wiser to require the Danes to have even more different cards. So I would very, very much like if we can do something in step two, and I think it is not only in our health area, but it is probably also in other areas where one can say: let us try to see how much one should actually impose on people. Now we are going in the right direction to do some of it digitally, and that can be part of the solution. In relation to the second question: very, very much like, I think it is an excellent idea if we separate it. It is, of course, up to the committee to make that proposal, and then we do so, and if it comes to a proposal, then a technical review is followed up. I think that is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133638	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133644	Well, it is an interesting debate that we are having here on Friday afternoon, and I can assure the Minister that that amendment will come. I believe that both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten will make proposals on this. So I think that makes a lot of sense. And in relation to the health card, I also think it would be very good if it were the case that we could see if we could put it together. But now Mr. Martin Geertsen me a little ahead of it. I think it would be a good idea to have a technical review done, because I think that the discussion on health data and also on decision support is a fairly fundamental discussion. Because it is not the same as the fact that it is a professional knowledge one gets as a doctor; for one goes in and retrieves health data from another person, and if one has given one's data, one must also have a right to be able to say for what purpose they should be used, and that is the whole discussion that lies in relation to the discussion about data. Because decision support can be a very good thing, but we just have to make sure that we get it fenced in sufficiently, and that is why I think it might be a good idea to have a technical review in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133753	Let's do it. In relation to the first, that is, our now common ambition to make it simpler and more streamlined and one-stringed in relation to ID cards, health cards and other things, I think we should also be completely honest with each other and with those who may be watching and say that this is not something that we are just coming up with on a Friday afternoon like this. I also believe that many people before us have had the wish, but that they have ended up in this with so many different cards, because there is both an economy, an EU practice and everything else that needs to be taken care of, compared to the fact that the blue card is an EU card. So, of course, we must bring all this in, and I would very much like to be involved in further work on that. As far as the question itself is concerned, there was, of course, full support for the wisdom of having a technical review where we dive into it. Because in this technology there is ethics, and there is politics too, but it is also technology that is at stake. So I think we should dive into it together. That would be an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133849	Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133853	Thank you. Full support for a technical review. I look forward to that, because I can hear that there is quite rightly a lot of concern, because this is a complex area and there is sensitive data and there must be full support from the parties behind it. It is also important that there is confidence in the public that what we are doing in here is actually for everyone's good. I think that some of what is really important here is that we are not talking about looking at individual data, but about aggregated data on risk score based on what we know about other patients, etc. That's what's relevant here. The individual is irrelevant in this context. It is the total amount of information that is important, and that is why, in my view, it is absolutely crucial that if the National Genom Center is to have a value, it is precisely for something like this, that is to say for support for treatment, where you can collect a lot of information, aggregate it and keep it up against the individual patient, so that the individual patient gets as much value out of it as possible. However, I shall look forward to the further discussion in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023133947	I fully agree that it is important to address the fact that this is a major, serious and important issue. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And it is important that there is security and trust, not only in the Folketing here, but also in the population. It often happens in the Danish Parliament's Health Committee that of course all parties stand on the side of the patient and say that here are patients who could really benefit from this treatment. After all, we often meet them, because they often come in deputies, and that is always heartbreaking, and that is something we really are working for, that is to say, that the best technology, the best knowledge, everything must be used if it can be beneficial and help the families that are so badly affected by serious illness. That is precisely why we have the National Genom Center, and that is why we must ensure that that information can be used in a safe, sound and secure way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023134038	I do not see any further questions, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201023134059	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 30 October 2020. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
