ParlaMint-DK_20200130100012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Morten Bødskov, fg.): Bill No. L 99 (Proposal for a law on additional appropriations for the financial year 2019). Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 100 (Proposal for a law amending the law on upper secondary education, the law on municipal action for young people under 25 and the law on vocational baccalaureate in vocational training (eux) etc.) Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. L 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a child care allowance). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Uffe Elbæk (ALT) have informed me that they want to take question no. F-22 to the Minister for Justice on the need for a Nazi crisis response back. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100056	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 54 by Peter Skaarup (DF), Jep Bruus (S), Inger Støjberg (V), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Sikandar Siddique (ALT), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 54 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100202	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100227	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100249	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, KF and LA), and voting is possible. That is the amendment we are voting on; it is not the legislative proposal as a whole. Then we say good morning, and the vote is now over. In favour of voting 47 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against voting 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100418	After that, the debate is about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill as a whole? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100425	We are now voting on the final adoption of the legislative proposal itself and we can vote on it. The vote will end. In favour 56 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 47 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100457	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100509	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 91 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT) voted against 13 (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100538	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100550	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 84 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 20 (SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100617	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100639	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 5 of a minority (RV, SF and EL), joined by a minority (S), which together constitutes a majority? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (RV, SF and EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 74 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (RV, SF and EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 74 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (RV, SF and EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 74 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100821	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100827	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 23 (RV, SF, ALT and 1 (by mistake)) voted against 72 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 8 (EL (by mistake)). That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100917	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130100937	It is true that amendments have been tabled. Perhaps it is such a day as today that there is a chance that some amendments could be adopted. So it is perhaps the right day to put this forward here, and it is not every day that we are discussing a proposal for an animal welfare law. It is actually a law that is very rarely revised. So this is not a law that we expect to be adjusted in the coming years. That is why what the draft law says is extremely important. I think it is gratifying that we have come to the conclusion that a few amendments are being tabled by the Minister and have the prospect of being adopted today. This is among other things. to get into the paragraph of purpose, that animals are both living and sensory beings, and that one also makes it clear that it is not any animal one must drown. Because if we had not made the change now proposed by the Minister, then we could actually legally go out drowning a horse and that was not the intention of the bill. I would like to point out that there are, therefore, some more amendments for which there is not quite a majority yet and in which, as Parliament today, we have the opportunity to vote on this draft law in the direction of improving it. It is a pity that we have not yet come to recognise an animal welfare law that takes account of the natural needs of animals. There is an amendment on that, and we can vote in favour of it in a moment. What I think is quite wrong with this bill is that we do not yet have a majority to give the Minister the power to demand training for agricultural workers. There is, in the draft law, a power for the Minister to come and make demands on the staff who are in pet shops when selling a dwarf hammer or canary, and the employees who are to care for dogs at an animal boarding house may be required. And it's important to look after dogs that are on vacation in those places. It is quite reasonable to have some legislation that allows us to make demands. However, where there is still a gap in this legislation, the Minister is not given the power to demand training for people who work in agriculture and who handle millions of animals every day. Then you are actually dependent on having to make voluntary agreements in order to try to meet the requirements we have. Because we do have requirements for agriculture. We have among other things. the need to reduce our use of antibiotics in agriculture, and that is what is best done when the workers working in agriculture have an education. And so there are examples of this, that is to say, making voluntary agreements and finding that that is where you are. And there is research that shows that education, including in agriculture, has a positive effect when it comes to measuring animal welfare. That is why I call on the Danish Parliament to vote in favour of the amendment. 5 to Article 21, because then there will be an authorisation for the Minister to impose training requirements on employees working in agriculture. If we now imagined that there was a Green Minister for Agriculture or a Blue Minister for Agriculture, would it not be reasonable for that minister to have the power, in a dialogue with the industry, to come up with training requirements for agricultural workers? Are we such a society that will be based on harsh penalties and more control? Or should we be a society in which emphasis is placed on the fact that the people who work in the various professions have a good educational background to solve the tasks that are there? The answer will always be yes. And that is why we call on you to vote in favour of Amendment No. 5, which amends a paragraph of the law. Imagine that you had a Minister of Agriculture and that he should have a little more powers, don't you see? So a clear call to vote in favour of several of these amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130101314	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130101322	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, RV, SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 41 (DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 62 (S, V, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV, SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 74 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 and 7 members of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV, SF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 73 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 9, submitted and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10-19, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130101652	The debate is open. We start with Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130101706	In Denmark we have a boring world record. We consume immensely. decades ago, we decided to take all our garbage and burn the whole pool and send it out as district heating. It was a really, really good method to get rid of its garbage instead of digging it into big holes in the fields. But it's a little out of date today. Today we know that we need to recycle. We need the individual things as many times as we can at all, and then they have to be broken down and recycled, and the individual parts have to be used again. That's what the future is if we're gonna take care of the resources on this planet. It is true that if everyone in the world consumed as much as we do in Denmark, we should have 4.2 globes to have enough resources. Everyone can see that is not very sustainable. What we are dealing with today is a proposal from the government, which is about implementing EU rules, so that the minister can be empowered to make plans for the prevention and management of waste in Denmark. I think that's a really, really good idea. It is also a very good idea for the government to set up climate partnerships, which will make their recommendations in March, and there they can also make recommendations for waste management. So when the EU directive says it has to be implemented on 1 July, we must probably expect it to be a little late, because we would like to hear all the wise ideas that can come from the climate partnerships, but it is all about when the minister starts implementing. The law here is basically about empowering the Minister, and that is, of course, something that we, as Socialists, think is a very good idea, so we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130101939	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102007	Thank you. This bill must be said to be of a more technical nature, and it must ensure that Denmark meets new and specified requirements from the EU for waste management plans and waste prevention programmes. As an EU-positive party, we in the Left are committed to bringing Danish law into line with EU law. Although this is a bit of a formal matter, I nevertheless think it is worth mentioning, not least because the rule-based international cooperation has been challenged in these years, and in the area of climate in particular, it is important that we lift up our ranks. So when the harmonisation of rules takes place and even can be done relatively smoothly, the common standards and rules of the game will be strengthened, and our joint efforts will be strengthened as well. In the left optics it is basically a good thing. The content of the legislative proposal is also important, because it helps to improve the framework for us to be able to take proper care of our environment. With the bill, we extend the requirements for our waste management and prevention plans. As the Left sees it, the bill thus helps to improve the framework for us to be able to take proper care of our environment. It will benefit nature, it will benefit ourselves, and future generations will benefit. According to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, Denmark is one of the countries in Europe that generates most waste. In fact, Denmark's Conservation Association estimates that we throw out about 450 kg of waste a year per year. Dane. When we Danes throw out so much, we need good rules and systems so that our waste can be handled properly and so that our environment suffers the least harm. With the bill here, we are creating the basis for our waste management plans and our plans to prevent waste, hopefully, will be even better than they already are, not least by giving the Minister for the Environment the opportunity to draw up more precise and extended national guidelines. So, to make a long story short, the bill is one of the many small steps towards a greener and more environmentally friendly future and is thus part of the framework for the green transition. Against this background, I would like to conclude, but before then, of course, the Left must confess the suit, and the Left's color, not to mention the button we have to press for this bill, is of course green. The Left will vote in favour of the bill, and we will be happy to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102241	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we thank Mrs Bjerre, and then we move on to Mr Bjerre's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102257	Then we have this proposal, and the previous rapporteurs have, as it were, described very well what it is about. After all, it deals with waste management plans, including at national level, and in line with what the previous rapporteurs have also explained, the Danish People's Party fully agrees that we should have them. Nor is there any doubt that waste, as also the Social Democrat rapporteur said, has changed from something that we burned off and made electricity and waste heat into a resource in the future. That is why, of course, we in Denmark must have plans for this, even if it comes from the European Union. We might have figured it out ourselves, but it is also always good to be helped on the way, and now at least a date has been set. Where the Danish People's Party might be slightly inquisitive about the proposal is in relation to the ministerial authorisation given. In any case, we have some questions on this in the context of the committee's work. In terms of content, we agree with the purpose of the draft law, no doubt about it, but we also believe that there is an incredible amount of policy in waste. That is why we have some questions about what it really means to vote in favour of the bill we are debating here today, in which we are, of course, authorising the Minister to carry out these waste management plans at national level. It's like the state doesn't actually own any garbage. After all, it is the municipalities that have the waste and how are these plans to be implemented? So, in terms of content, I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that we are in complete agreement. With regard to the formulation of the ministerial authorisation, we have some questions about what this will mean, because we have a great interest in using the resources in waste, and of course we as a party would also like to be part of this, both with the current minister and with future ministers. So we take the proposal down positively, but have some questions in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102444	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102453	Thank you. Following on from what has also been said from up here by other rapporteurs, I would like to say that this is primarily a technical legislative proposal which empowers the Minister to draw up these waste prevention plans and waste management plans. However, we have made some of the same considerations as the Danish People's Party, because we know how much policy there is in waste. That is why, of course, we have also asked the Minister: what is in this legal basis; are there any political discussions? And we strongly assume that it will be during the spring, not least after the climate partnership comes into play in this area. So we will look forward to having such more substantive political discussions at that time and therefore we support the proposal. And I should also like to say from the SF, who unfortunately could not be present in this Chamber now, that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102544	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have arrived at the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102551	In Denmark we are European champions, but not necessarily in something we should be particularly proud of, because we are European champions in garbage, European champions in waste. We're throwing everything out too much. Every week, you and I throw out 8 kilos of garbage. It can be old food, packaging, batteries, electronics, cans, paper, cardboard and plastic. Those quantities simply need to be reduced. We have to throw less waste away, and then our waste system has to be much wiser, because we are burning too much waste today, and that is to the detriment of the climate. And then we consume so much right now that Earth's resources can't stand it. That is why we need to recycle much more, and what we cannot recycle directly, we need to recycle. But that also means that we must ask politically, for example. companies to make products that do not just break up, to make packaging that can be recycled, so that we can have new products that have been created in a better and greener way. In short, we are working for a future of circular economy in which all resources are part of a green cycle. Therefore, we need a new waste plan in Denmark, and this bill paves the way for this, and that is why we support the bill in the Enhedslisten, of course. However, it is very important for me to stress that we want greater involvement of the parties on the ground, and that also means that we hope that there will be a hearing response from, for example, the Commission. Danish Waste Association, which brings some relevant red flags to the future work for better waste systems in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102758	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, which is why we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130102804	Thank you. As several people before me have said, first it was Mrs Mette Gjerskov of the Social Democratic Party that waste has gone from something we burned off to something that can, at least in very many cases, be a resource if we handle it properly, if it is produced properly and if it is done under the right conditions. And that is why it is very important that we have these waste management plans and waste prevention plans. As Mrs Bjerre from the Left pointed out, this draft law has a technical character, but I must also confess a little and admit that I have little difficulty fully understanding the total consequences of what we are discussing today. And that's probably because there's some politics in it. Because, of course, there's politics in how to make these plans. And by nature we are also positive about this bill, but just as the Danish People's Party has expressed a concern, we also have a little concern about what we are putting in this authorisation and to what extent there will be a political involvement in this. For waste is so much politics; it is environmental policy like anything else. And, of course, we in Denmark must live up to our obligations in the European system, but there can also be a lot of policy in how to implement it in a Danish context. And, like Mrs Zenia Stampe, I very much look forward to the climate partnership in this area providing their good input to further discussions. We're positive about this bill, but we're gonna have to get a little bit smarter on this authorization we're giving... what's really in it? And I also find it a little difficult to link the entire producer responsibility to what we are discussing today, i.e. whether it is involved or whether it is something that we take completely on board. So there are going to be some committee questions, but we are taking a positive view of what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103002	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103008	Thank you. The alternative supports the proposal to amend the Environmental Protection Act resulting from the revised EU Waste Directive of May 2018. We welcome the fact that waste prevention is at the top of the hierarchy with this bill. Waste prevention is at the heart of the Alternative's vision for a sustainable society and a sustainable world with much more gentle resource consumption than today. We want to see waste as a recyclable resource and not a problem that needs to be disposed of. This proposal focuses on the circular economy, and it's pleasing. The Kerne of circular economy is, of course, that we see every resource in a lifetime perspective. In the circular economy, products with their constituents are included in a continuous cycle; nothing is waste; resources circulate from cradle to cradle and from use to new use. It is the transition away from use and throw away culture that we are in the process of implementing the EU directive here. The implementation of the Waste Directive seems to be a step in the right direction. As Environment Rapporteur for the Alternative, I would particularly like to emphasise that it is good that Member States ensure that by 31 December 2023 biowaste is either sorted and recycled at source or collected separately and not mixed with other types of waste. It is also important to focus on construction waste and to select by demolition, so that sorting systems for construction and demolition waste are established at least for wood and mineral fractions such as concrete, bricks, tiles, ceramics, stone and metal, glass, plastic and plaster. We really do have a lot of construction waste, and that is why we need to sort it out so that we can reduce our CO2 Moreover, we also think that there should be more focus on corporate waste and packaging. We would like the time perspective to be more ambitious than the 65% by weight of municipal waste to be recycled and recycled in 2035 at the latest. In the 2017 municipal elections, the alternative in Copenhagen went to the elections for Copenhagen to recycle at least 80%. of all waste in 2030. Bornholm has decided to be without waste in 2032, which means that 100 per cent. shall be recycled. Increased focus on repairing our stuff and long product life are important pieces in this puzzle. The proposal also refers to general minimum requirements for extended producer responsibility. The alternative suggests here that we get: half VAT on repairs; extended guarantees for electronics; requirement that a product can be separated into separate parts so that recycling becomes easier; and prohibition of planned obsolescence of technology. We think this is a good place to start. We do not think the proposal here is ambitious enough, but it is moving in the right direction. Recycling and recycling of waste are important for both the climate and the environment, but there is also a good economy in it. The alternative vision is that by 2030 Denmark will be a global role model in the development, implementation and export of circular solutions, and that Denmark will be world renowned as a country with circular economy. We want maximum ambitious legislation in this area and look forward to good and engaging processes with many actors in the preparation of a waste management and waste prevention plan. On this basis, we shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103350	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103358	Thank you. The draft law intends to make legislative adjustments in this area; adjustments enabling the Minister to draw up the national waste management plan in accordance with the obligations laid down in the directive. The draft law does not in itself have consequences for municipalities or professions which might be affected by L 94. The draft law has also been submitted to external consultation, and I note in a review of these consultations that there have been no significant objections from the parties. We can therefore support the adoption of L 94 by the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103441	There are no brief comments, so we thank you. And then it's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103450	Thank you for the floor. At the Bureau's major seminar on Bymose Hegn 3 years ago on the working methods in the Danish Parliament there were also external participants. And one of the external participants complained that there were far too few fire speeches on the Parliament's platform. In this connection, I asked for the floor and said to the external participant that the lack of fire speeches was due to the fact that some legislative proposals were so technical that it was a little difficult to give a fire speech on top of the proposal. And this is exactly the kind of proposal that we have here. So there will be no fire speech, but we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103538	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further, and now it is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103549	Thank you. There is now every reason for a fire talk about this very subject, which is why I would also like to thank you for the good reception from all the parties in the Danish Parliament. We need something to happen in relation to our waste. It is true, as has been said, that the proposed proposal must ensure that new EU requirements for the content of plans for the prevention and management of our waste can be implemented in Denmark. We need a new plan. In Denmark we are very good at throwing things in the garbage bin, for scraping and discarding. We're so good at this, we've got ourselves a bit of a bad record. We are European champions in the production of waste. We burn too much of the waste and recycle too little. It emits CO2 Extraction and processing of natural resources is responsible for about half of global greenhouse gas emissions and over 90%. of the global loss of biodiversity. We must therefore switch to a more circular economy where we consume and produce smarter and with respect for the limited resources available to us. We do this by preserving products and materials in orbit and making use of their value for as long as possible. It is not just in Denmark that we need to be better at preventing and managing waste. In the European Union, we must together strengthen the circular economy. One of the ways to do this is to make common demands on national waste plans. With the new EU requirements for the Member States' waste plans, we are lifting in packs. We need to sort more. We need to make it more similar. Food waste must be combated. Waste in nature must be stopped, and recycling and recycling must be significantly increased. We must meet new stricter recycling targets in 2025, 2030 and 2035. This requires a focused effort both in Denmark and in the rest of the EU. The government is ready to take the lead in this demanding, but also historic green transition. With the waste plan, we must set the direction for a more circular economy in which we consume without waste. The government has also launched a series of climate partnerships and also a partnership on water, waste and circular economy, which will report its recommendations to all of us in March. The government expects climate partnerships to point out some important measures to reduce climate and environmental impacts from waste, which is why we would also like to include these recommendations in the national waste plan. Therefore, the waste plan will be consulted later this year once the climate partnerships have made their recommendations. The legislative proposal takes a first step and sets out the formal framework in the environmental protection law to ensure that national waste plans are in line with EU requirements, and I hope that all parties will support the bill so that we can move on to the next important step, namely to draw up a waste plan that once and for all makes up our unfortunate record in waste generation and instead places us where we should be like a pioneering country in the green transition. In this context, of course, I am also very happy to listen to all the good ideas in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103917	There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103920	Thank you. It is just a simple question and perhaps an attempt to save the official work just a little bit of time. When I consider this in relation to the producer responsibility, as I mentioned in my speech, it is really just because I see a deadline for implementing what is here this summer, where producer responsibility must also be implemented, as far as I remember. And that's exactly what makes me connect the two things, even if there's nothing else in the text that's up to it. So I just want to know if the minister could clarify that. Because I don't think there's any connection immediately, and then there's no need to speculate more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130103952	Well, then, I hope we can, knowing that I can answer fairly clearly. What is like in the waste plan is that we need to be able to show that Denmark can realise the new recycling targets for 2025, 2030 and 2035, and how we want to reduce our waste production. Therefore, it can be said that deadlines in relation to waste plans and to producer responsibility are actually different. So it is not this summer that the content of producer responsibility should be in place. But it is true that we will also have a discussion on producer responsibility in relation to the means to actually get producer responsibility and an extension of it in Denmark. But the two deadlines don't follow each other, so it's actually a little different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104033	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104038	Thank you for that and thank you for your examination by the Minister. A little further to what is being asked of the Conservatives, one can say that you cannot make the producer responsibility and you cannot make the collection models if you do not have the national plan. After all, it is the national plan that will be the foundation of everything else that needs to be made. It is also for this reason that, in relation to the authority of the Minister, and I would like to say that it is not about mistrust of the Minister, who is on the floor of the Chair, it is so that if you have an authorisation, you can make all the political negotiations you want to do, and if you cannot achieve it then you can say: okay, then I use my authority. And then you implement that policy in this area. And that is why we are somewhat sceptical about giving the authority. We are not sceptical about the content of the bill. And that's because there's a lot of money in this. There are also a lot of emotions in it, there is also a lot of politics in it. After all, it is the citizens, the individual citizen, who will be part of the plan that the Minister will eventually have to come up with. After all, it is the citizens who are the front people in relation to doing the source sorting which is to take place in Denmark. Does the Minister not see such challenges in the authorisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104145	Thank you for the question. Well, I totally agree, and so I'm glad it's something that can get you out of the chairs that we're going to discuss this. Because there is a lot of policy in waste and we need to do it better. So, of course, we also need to have that discussion. What lies in this legislative proposal is that we follow the legal structure that has existed in the past, in other words, where they say: we are empowering to draw up waste management and waste prevention plans, and this is being extended to implement the new directive requirements. So there is no change in the practice that has been in relation to national waste plans. But it is clear that we can easily understand the rapporteur's interest in wanting to be part of what that content will then be for something. And there I have a clear expectation that we will have a discussion on the content when we also have the legislative proposal in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104233	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104234	I would like to say that, and of course we will also use the committee procedure to ensure that in many areas authorisations can also make it possible for a law to be innovative and move, so that you do not always have to go down to the Parliament hall and do three readings. And that is why ministerial powers are absolutely something that is worth using. However, I would like to call on the Minister, before we come to the third reading, to state in some way that this draft law also calls for the political involvement of other parties in the preparation of something completely new. This is new for the Danish People's Party, but it is also new for the Minister how we should deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104310	It's always nice when there's high expectations. At least it's better than the opposite. So I'm just gonna take that. I would, of course, like to be a part of the committee's proceedings, as well as to say: what exactly are these powers? And if there is a need for us to go into it more in committee, then of course we would be very happy to do so. With regard to the rules on public access, including in connection with this draft law, they must in fact help to ensure that both the preparation and adoption of the national waste plans are carried out with the involvement of the public. So we have a full focus on that. However, it is clear that I also have a focus, of course, on how to involve the parties. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104345	We thank the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104359	The negotiations have been opened. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104417	Thank you for the floor, President. This is really exciting. This is something I have really been thinking about and have been working on, in fact, almost decades, I would say good farming practice. Because we can make as many rules and as many laws as we want, but what this is about out there in agriculture is how to handle things. And we cannot make rules all the way down to the detail of good farming practice. But some have actually tried that with what are called the IPM principles. This was something that was agreed in an additional agreement to the pesticide strategy; that we should have introduced it. And it's coming now. I think it is very, very good that we are trying to limit the use of pesticides, for example. to have a better crop rotation; to focus on these good farming principles again on farms. I'm really looking forward to it. The draft law is also about simplification of rules and then finally about some rules on subsidies for example. pesticides that are less harmful to the environment. So I would say that all in all, this is a legislative proposal in which, in many ways, we are talking about the pesticide strategy, and we are talking about it very much in advance. But I think I will be happy to see that we are now really trying to help farmers to be good farmers; instead of simply putting rules on their heads, we are helping them with good farming practice. That is what this is all about, and of course we Social Democrats can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104637	As the Left rapporteur on this matter, Erling Bonnesen, has been prevented, I have promised to read out his rapporteur's speech, and I shall do so here. The bill before us follows up on parts of the Supplementary Agreement to the Pesticide Strategy concluded by the Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance on 11 January 2019. The purpose of the bill is to lay down rules for professional users of pesticides to apply certain general principles referred to as IPM principles. In addition, the aim is to simplify the rules so that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality will be able to lay down reporting requirements on the consumption of plant protection products through a legal basis in the Chemicals Act. The draft law also provides a framework for grants for research, research and development projects and for fees for the approval of less burdensome means of control. The aim of the bill is to combat pests as lightly as possible. At the same time, we set out a clear framework for the use of pesticides in professional contexts and focus on research in this area. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104757	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen, on his way up to the platform. René Christensen Sorry, President). Welcome, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104828	Thank you, President. I apologize for waiting; things are going so fast, so fast. It is probably because it is legislation that can be dealt with. It is true that when we talk about the use of plant protection products, there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party are also in favour of using the knowledge that exists and of course we also collect that knowledge. And that is what this proposal is all about. So, now we're being set up for what we've been doing for a long time, also in relation to crop rotation and other things, that we have to make these cross-checks, and I can see that the minister has also been in and making compensatory proposals in relation to the economy. That is why, of course, we in the Danish People's Party can also support the proposal which lies there. When you look at the consultation answers and indeed what we hear from the industry, it is really positive that we can do these environmental measures where everyone actually agrees that this is the right way to go. Although this is a framework which, of course, we are laying down over the industry, it is certainly not something that has met with opposition when you read the answers to the hearings. So we can support the proposal and, of course, look forward to its implementation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104931	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130104937	Thank you. It is fast today, and my speech will not be that long either, because we are also part of this pesticide agreement, which is about reducing the use of pesticides, i.e. pesticides, in agriculture. One of the methods is to help farmers in the country reflect on their use of pesticides, among other things. through this checktable, which asks a number of questions that can, yes, create a reflection on how much and how to use pesticides. So, of course, we fully support this, and I should like to say once again that the SF, which unfortunately could not be present in the Chamber now, welcomes the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105015	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105023	Thank you for the floor. After all, our drinking water is under enormous pressure and, unfortunately, the last few years have brought scandals following scandals with the closure of a great many drinking water wells after finding pesticides in drinking water. In the spring of last year I myself was in a northern Zealand city, Ledøje to visit some citizens who could not drink the water. All of them simply had to go down to the square to a large water tank and bottle the water they needed in their daily lives. To put it mildly, it was very difficult for them. Shortly before Christmas, the National Audit Office also presented a report showing that exemptions have been granted for the use of illegal pesticides that have since ended up in our drinking water. That is simply not good enough. Experts and Danish waterworks have been calling out for years and saying that now our drinking water needs to be managed. We must be able to rely on the quality of the water that comes out of our taps. Now the political course has finally begun to change slowly, and that is really nice. And now, after many years of pressure, a ban is being imposed on the use of spray poisons in the borehole protection areas, but unfortunately only from 2022. But in the Enhedslisten, we still believe that things are going too slowly. We believe that more initiatives need to be taken to prevent spray poisons from ending up in our drinking water. This bill is an example of making a small adjustment, which may be fine, but more needs to be done. You could, for example. start by reducing the limit values that were raised part of as a result of the pesticide agreement of 2017. Work could also be done to protect the water, not only where it is pulled up, but also where drinking water is produced. It is in the so-called recovery countries. They constitute a very large area in Denmark, and we of course believe that it should not be sprayed there. But the first step could be to actually map those areas, and I very much hope that the current government will work on that. This would actually be a serious step which would show that we are moving in the right direction. The bill that we are now considering is, as I said earlier, in the petty section. And it makes sense to ask farmers to focus even more on their own use of pesticides. It may be that some of them think a little more before they go out and spray. We also believe that more action is needed, and agriculture, to say the least, does not have the world's best track record when it comes to voluntary efforts. There is one thing that puzzles me a little in the draft law, and that is that the Minister is given the opportunity to provide support for research into pesticides, which can be less harmful. In a sense, it can be said that this is very sensible, but I am a little concerned because my wish is that we should have an agriculture in Denmark which does not actually use pesticides that can be harmful. They do not belong in nature, in food or in our drinking water. We support the draft law, but look forward to a committee reading where we can get it a little more done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105423	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and we shall welcome Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105431	Thank you. I will also be relatively brief, as this is the implementation of the Supplementary Agreement to the Pesticides Agreement, which was made back in January 2019 and of which the Conservative People's Party was a part. We go in and regulate the professional use of plant protection products. In the past, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that it was an opportunity to make farmers think twice before they went out and sprayed, and I think that is right, but if I am to be quite honest, I think that much thought is being given to it today, since there is also an economy associated with it, every single time you go out and spray, since the pesticides are taxed. But this is a really good initiative, and it helps to support this whole IPM thought and these principles that are so necessary if we are to prevent resistance, and it is becoming more and more topical when we cut down on the proportion of pesticides that are possible to use. I can see that Agriculture & Food points to a concern, in relation to the timing of how much time you need to spend on this, and we must, of course, keep track of whether that is the case. There may be a concern as to whether you may need consultancy services. We did not want to go there, but of course it always takes a little to get into a new system. But we think there are many good elements in this, and that is why, by its very nature, we also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105556	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130105610	Thank you. Some of the amendments implemented in the Chemicals Act with the present proposal are from the "Advisements on Pesticide Strategy 2017-2021' and the "Advisements on Pesticide Strategy 2017-2021'. There are good tactics in those appointments. The alternative was not included in them because we saw them as a far too small step forward. It is rather ironic that we are planning to regulate the use of poison in primary food production at all. It would be a big step forward in terms of both nature and public health if we did not need pesticide strategies. The alternative would like more to be done than merely reducing the dangers and harm caused by the use of poison. We want more to be done to ensure that the residue of pesticides in food is as low as possible, as stated in the Agreement on Pesticide Strategy 2017-2021. It is a human right to have access to clean drinking water and poison-free food. The introduction of the IPM principle is better than nothing, because there is Roundup in many sources of drinking water and there are other substances that should not be there and there are chemicals that we are not testing for yet. So there can easily be many dark numbers. It is good that the parties to the agreement will reduce the risk of the reduction of pesticides in borehole protection areas and follow the Water Panel's recommendation on screening for several substances in groundwater monitoring. However, we have concerns because we need to make small measurements and work on reducing risks. We should be much more concerned with radical action and bet on 100 per cent. organic farming and research into various toxic and sustainable agricultural forms and crops. The alternative is that today, with the present amendment to the law on chemicals, the legislation still has major shortcomings in the protection of drinking water. We want to ensure more areas than the additional agreement guarantees. When the alternative left the spraying negotiations two years ago, it was because we thought that the protection of the drilling-related ways was not sufficient, and we still believe that this is not the case. We must protect drinking water, but at least we must also protect against spraying in drinking water catchment areas. Then there's the thing about the injection file. We have looked with interest at the consultation response from the Danish Organic Association. They point to several things that we consider important to include in this agreement or in the piece of legislation where they belong. It is a requirement that the operator's records indicate whether the holding is organic. This applies to the possibility of extracting data on the extent of use in ecology, as it makes it easier to decide whether new administrative tools and rules are needed to manage the use. This applies to the adjustment of the system of fees for pesticides, so that the more gentle means are not simply subject to a relatively high tax because they are authorised for use in high doses. As they write, a limited number of funds have been authorised based on natural substances or products for food. The present system of taxation slows down the shift from more burdensome products to less burdensome products falling within the category of conventional plant protection products. It is important for the alternative to listen to these needs and, in relation to research, we believe that instead of researching less burdensome means of control, we should use research to find new cultivation methods where more is grown in conjunction with nature. In general, we needed more resources for conversion and support for Danish agriculture for conversion to ecology and new cultivation methods. Ruler simplification also seems to us to be always good. There are many shortcomings in this, but it is, after all, a step forward or a small step in the right direction, so we are voting yellow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110045	The draft law gives the Minister for the Environment the power to lay down rules for professional users of plant protection products to apply general principles for integrated pest control. The draft law will also provide for grants for research and development projects and for fees for the approval of less burdensome means of control. Both actions are welcomed by the relevant stakeholders. In New Citizens, we support simpler and clearer and more coherent legal structures, including laws in relation to the opportunities of the agricultural sector, and L 95, on the basis of the legislative proposal itself and the consultation responses, looks to match this desire. So, from the point of view of the new citizens, we support the adoption of L 95.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110137	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then we should welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110148	Thank you. I'll be brief. Bill L 95 is part of a political agreement that we are also part of, which is why we naturally support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110200	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Then we should welcome the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110206	Thank you. I am also pleased that, with this amendment to the Chemicals Act, we can implement an important part of the additional agreement we have made for the pesticide strategy. We have already delivered in relation to the drilling-related protection areas, which have also been mentioned here, it is a very, very important extension of the protection of our drinking water and now the trip has come to the so-called IPM principles, which are about preventing weeds, disease and pests and about other methods of minimising the use of pesticides. For example, farmers must: make use of a varied and healthy crop rotation, and non-chemical methods must be chosen for the control of harmful agents if this can be done sufficiently effectively. Therefore, the use of IPM is so important in relation to the professional use of pesticides. Here the individual user has both the opportunity and the responsibility to make an effort to limit the use of pesticides. All parties to the pesticide strategy have decided to introduce a requirement for farmers to demonstrate that they comply with the IPM principles, and today we are implementing a legislative amendment which means that farmers will have to fill in an IPM scoreboard annually. For example: points for good crop rotation and choice of less burdensome means. In addition, the farmer must answer specific questions about compliance with the principles, for example: the selection of resistant varieties, if possible. In this way, it becomes visible to farmers, where the IPM principles are being applied well and where there are opportunities for improvement, and it becomes apparent that we as a society expect this action to be given priority in order to preserve nature and the environment as much as possible. The second main element of the draft law is the simplification of rules as its purpose, as the Law on Spray Records is proposed to be repealed. The necessary rules will be transferred to the Chemicals Act, so that the relevant rules in this area are put together somewhere. It is the rules on reporting the medical record that are specifically concerned. The third main element of the draft law concerns subsidies for less burdensome pesticides, including those authorised for organic farms. There are currently subsidy schemes for both pesticides and biocidal products • subsidies for alternative pesticides are part of the pesticide strategy, and subsidies for less stressful biocides are part of the chemical effort. The Chemicals Act has so far not provided for this type of subsidy and has instead been provided for by the Finance Act. Therefore, it is now proposed that a completely new subsidy provision should be included in the Chemicals Act. In this way, existing subsidy schemes will be able to continue on a clear legal basis and we will all benefit from the granting of subsidies so that the use of less burdensome means of control can replace more burdensome funds. I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110510	There is one brief comment from Mrs Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110513	I would like to ask a little about the forward-looking protection of our drinking water. Because it can be said that this bill is, after all, an expiry of the pesticide agreement, which runs until 2021, and then it could be that a new agreement should be made; I think that at least that could be very nice. In this context, we want the Enhedslisten to protect the areas where drinking water is produced, and not just where it is brought up. Could the government imagine including such things in a future agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110547	The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110549	Thank you for the question. I am, of course, one in agreement with the Enhedslisten in the concern for our groundwater. In other words, we can see too many examples of residues of pesticides being found in our groundwater, and we must of course do something about that. That is also why we have worked so hard to ensure that this ban is applied in relation to the drilling-related protection areas. And we have agreed with Enhedslisten and the other parties behind the understanding paper that we must have a mapping of the challenges for our groundwater so that we can make a comprehensive plan for better protection. In addition, we have an agreement in the pesticide agreement, and the Enhedslisten is always welcome to join the agreement circle. We're gonna have to, among other things. This year we meet and talk about the objective in terms of reducing the use of pesticides and in relation to the actual tax on pesticides. So there are a lot of things we need to do in this area to reduce the use of pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110646	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110648	Thank you for the answer, which I hear is very positive. I am also very proud that we have produced a common understanding paper, which means that we must precisely identify the challenges that continue to be for our drinking water and are going to be for many years to come. I very much hope that, as part of the mapping of the challenges for drinking water, we will in fact also be able to identify the areas which need to be identified, where drinking water is produced, where I believe that we should also provide better protection. So I hope we can agree on that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110726	I am also very concerned that, when we do that mapping, we look at all the challenges that exist. I don't think we can solve it all at once.That's the way it is, but vice versa is one of the things that is unique in Denmark, that we can open up the tap and drink our water directly from there, without it having to be cleaned in all possible ways, as it should be abroad. It is of course the value, the security of our drinking water that we must take care of, also for future generations, and that is where I look forward to the things we have to do together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110755	We thank the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110820	The debate is open. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130110826	Thank you, President. The unitary list proposes to instruct the government to work towards the implementation of the European Parliament's adoption of the Turkish military operation in north-east Syria. Parliament's discussion took place just over two weeks after Turkey began its military operation in north-east Syria, in fact on the same day as we in Parliament held a question debate on the same subject, namely F 8. Both the European Parliament and the Folketing adopted a clear condemnation of Turkey's military intervention in north-east Syria and a clear call for Turkey to withdraw. It was absolutely right to stand firm. All nine parties were behind Parliament's adoption V 3 and I am naturally very pleased with that. The following week, i.e. On 31 October 2019, we had another enquiry debate in the Danish Parliament on Turkey this time with a focus on Turkey's status as an EU candidate country. The debate resulted in a further parliamentary adoption, namely the proposal for adoption V 7 with the support of a broad majority in the Folketing. I note, however, that today's proposers were not part of the majority behind the adoption of the EU-Turkey relationship. In any case, the government has a clear political line towards Turkey, both bilaterally, in the EU and in other fora. It is, of course, based on parliamentary decisions and with a broad majority in the back. This is a line that is firm in relation to the very worrying developments in the area of human rights and in relation to the rule of law in Turkey and which states that the government is not, but it is also a line that recognises that Turkey is a country that we cannot ignore. It is a long-standing ally in NATO, a key partner of the European Union, a key partner in the issue of the management of refugees and migrants. It is therefore the Government's view that dialogue and cooperation with Turkey remain necessary in areas of common interest, including trade and migration. I would like to return to the adoption of the European Parliament, specifically the challenges referred to by the authors of the Enhedslisten in the comments contained in the resolution. Firstly, it calls for the adoption of a comprehensive and EU-wide arms embargo on Turkey as long as the Turkish military operation and presence in Syria continues. It is very important for me to emphasise that Denmark has had a very restrictive approach to Turkey for a long period of time. So we have not allowed the export of weapons that can be used in Syria. In October, all EU countries jointly committed themselves to a restrictive approach to arms exports to Turkey. Denmark worked actively here to get as restrictive a common line as possible within the EU circle. I think I've succeeded. Against this background, the government has stopped all new permits for the export of weapons to the country. This means that, together with the EU circle, we have tightened our approach even more. This is a significant step, not least because it is a step towards a NATO alliance. Denmark and the rest of the EU community have sent a clear signal to Turkey to change their behaviour. For the government, it is important that we have a unified, restrictive EU line on arms exports to Turkey. And I am very pleased that this is now the case. It would not make a difference in relation to Turkey's behaviour if we were to stand alone on this point. Secondly, the adoption of targeted sanctions and visa bans targeted Turkish officials who may be responsible for human rights violations both within Turkey and during military intervention in north-east Syria. As mentioned earlier, the government shares the concern about the human rights situation in Turkey. We take every opportunity to maintain pressure on the Turkish Government. Fundamental rights and international obligations must be respected. We are also putting that pressure together with our partners in the European Union and in other relevant forums. The situation of civilians in north-east Syria following the military operation in October of last year is serious. Our common concern about the conditions of the civilian population was clearly expressed in the adoption by the Folketing V 3. I am once again pleased with the broad consensus in the Folketing among the parties on the pressure we can put together on Turkey. However, sanctions against Turkish officials are not a realistic way to go. It is, of course, primarily the Turkish Government that must be pressured to pursue a different policy both in Turkey and in Syria. It is important that we put the right pressure in the right places and that brings me to the third requirement of the resolution. It calls for the suspension of trade preferences between the EU and Turkey on agricultural products and, as a last resort, the suspension of the EU-Turkey customs union. If we go along that path, it will be like imposing trade sanctions. Such a step would lead to an inappropriate escalation of tensions in relations with Turkey, and I do not believe that escalation is in the European Union's own interests and in our interests. It will only maintain and strengthen the Turkish Government in its current course. At the same time, it is my clear opinion that there is no political will for it in the EU circle either. It is important to send a signal that we are not turning our backs on Turkey as a country. We also want a close relationship in the future with the Turkish people, including the part that does not agree with the policy of the current government. Trade relations can play a positive role here, including for ordinary Turkish citizens, their daily lives and their economy. In addition, trade and contacts between companies and their employees can improve cross-border understanding. Let me also remind you of the very broad support in this Chamber on 29 November last year for the proposal for the adoption of trade sanctions. We must be careful not to use trade sanctions too often, and we really must make every effort to ensure that trade sanctions really hit those we want to sanction, that is, those who have to change behaviour, and not unwittingly workers and companies, for example. As in other difficult foreign policy issues, there is no fait accompli list, no easy solutions with regard to Turkey. I know that the authors are fully aware of this. The government would like to enter into a dialogue on how best to deal with the situation around Turkey and how best to influence further development. We must remember that there are still many forces in Turkey that want Europe and European values. There is no doubt that long and hard work will be needed. Bringing Turkey back into a positive development with regard to democracy, the rule of law, fundamental rights and international commitments requires thoughtful and thoughtful action on the long track. It is the government's view that, with the two parliamentary resolutions from the question debates in October 2019, i.e. last year, we have a good basis for continuing the current political line vis-à-vis Turkey with the broad support of the Danish Parliament. That is why we do not need the proposal that has been put forward. Against this background, the government calls on the government to reject the proposed parliamentary resolution requiring the government to make the European Parliament resolution on Turkey an official Danish foreign policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111639	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111643	I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it will not help much if Denmark stands alone. That is also why it is a call for us to work for this line in the Council, in other words in the European Union. I thought it was social democratic policy that we should work for such things in the European Union, but then I can be wrong. I understand from the Foreign Minister that this was an extremely stupid resolution that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament helped to ask, and the only question I have to ask the Foreign Minister is: what is the alternative? Last time I looked, Turkey was still away occupying power in Rojava. Ethnic cleansing is still going on. Not a single Turkish soldier has been withdrawn. Well, what's the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111753	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. In other words, I think it is very important that, as we also explain here, we pursue a strict and firm common EU policy towards Turkey. I am quite sure that we are united in the European countries, we can make a much greater difference. That is why I was also pleased that we had the very restrictive line adopted in response to Turkey's military operations into North-East Syria, in other words that we were united in the European Council on the very restrictive adoption in relation to selling and exporting arms to Turkey. I think it is very important, if we are to influence the behaviour of the Turkish Government, that we send out clear common signals. It is also the case that, in principle, it is the governments that conduct foreign and security policy in the European Union, of course, in a dialogue with the European Parliament. There is also a firm dialogue between the High Representative, who is at the forefront of the Council, and the European Parliament on the resolutions that are being adopted, but it is the governments that are conducting foreign and security policy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111850	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111851	But is it not a very normal democratic procedure for a European Parliament and a national parliament to put forward some proposals and for some governments to start working for it and then for a majority to come to the Council? Well, there's nothing awkward or weird about it at all. And then we are back to the question I asked: what is the alternative? Because what the Minister says has been done and will continue to do has not helped. The occupation continues, the expulsions continue, and the ethnic cleansing continues. What's the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111929	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130111932	Firstly, I was very clear about the fact that we in the Danish Parliament in October have had two decisions by a very broad majority, which sets the line in relation to Denmark's and the EU's policy towards Turkey, for which we on the part of the government are very pleased that there is support. Secondly, it is of course important that we use the opportunities we have to influence the behaviour of the Turkish Government, and the things proposed in the European Parliament can be excellent and can be taken into account, but we do have an assessment among the governments of what works most effectively, and it is absolutely right that we still have challenges with Turkey to this day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112007	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112019	We in the Social Democratic Party look with great concern at the developments in Turkey, not only in relation to the invasion in Syria, where, unfortunately, Turkey has allied itself with Islamist groups and is precisely driving the civilian population and has also illegally entered another country. We also look with concern at the situation in Turkey itself: detention of political opponents, journalists. In fact, Turkey is the country that has the most journalists in prison, that is to say even more than it has in China. We have also seen how minorities and trade union leaders are being hit hard. We look with concern at the situation of what Turkey is doing outside the EU: sticking lines, registering citizens who engage in legitimate activities in Denmark, and how imams are also being used by the government of Ankara. But we also know that the government has reacted very strongly to this. The government has condemned it very, very strongly, not only the Foreign Minister, but also the Prime Minister has condemned the invasion in Syria so strongly that the Danish ambassador to Turkey was summoned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for an explanation. As far as the political prisoners are concerned, we have been very clear on the Danish side; I believe that all parties have supported the fact that this is totally unacceptable. After all, with the support of many different parties, we have also been down to support the political prisoners, our colleagues who are in prison. Here too, the government has been clear. The government has also been clear about what is going on in Denmark, where both charges have been filed, and the ambassador has also been summoned, because of course that is not something we will accept. I just think it is important to say to the Enhedslisten that there is another Turkey as well, and there are some of us who are familiar with the other Turkey. Despite massive electoral fraud, despite Erdogan sitting on the media, our sister party, the Social Democratic Party, succeeded in winning the local elections by means of the Kurdish party, as in the six largest cities there is a majority bypassing Erdogan. These are Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Mersin, Antalya and Adana. In other words, in very, very many cities, even in the capital, where Erdogan's presidential palace is, it is in fact the opposition that sits on the majority. What is very interesting when you talk to them is that they say a lot about the fact that we still have to have some kind of dialogue with Turkey, so as not to forget them, so that they still have a hope that somebody in the world will hear them. After all, the proposal by the unitary list that we should get out of the customs union looks like a form of trade sanctions, and this will, of course, primarily affect those areas where the opposition is actually in power, because that is where we have trade in particular. So I just think it's very important that we stick to this. Finally, I would like to say that it is, of course, gratifying that the Enhedslisten is so interested in what is going on in the European Union, because, as I understood not so long ago, we had to get out of the European Union, but it is gratifying that we can actually learn something from it. However, we are maintaining a dialogue with Turkey and are, of course, very critical of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112319	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112322	Yes, we use all forums where we can speak at all to try to influence things so that they go in the right direction. With the help of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, it was the Socialist Group, together with other groups, that made this proposal. And, of course, we appreciate that. We can then see that the same luck we have in the European Parliament with the Socialist Group is not something we have with the Social Democratic Party in Denmark or with the Social Democratic Government. And, of course, we find that a pity. However, just to discuss the content, I would like to say that there is no provision here for interrupting any dialogue. In other words, it is not a question of Turkey being thrown out of the Council of Europe or there being no dialogue with Turkey. What the proposal is about is the abolition of the special advantages that Turkey has. And that's what this is about. In other words, it is not trade with Turkey; it is benefits, is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112430	I do not know what it is like with the Enhedslisten and the EU system. Well, I remember that Mrs Pernille Skipper before Brexit was out to announce that we were going to have a referendum where Denmark could then resign from the European Union. Then it is certainly not something you can draw on anymore at all. And then the rapporteur knows that it is easier to say something in the European Parliament than it is in relation to a government. There's not the same bond. But of course, if you want officials on a sanction list because that's how I understand the proposal, then it's harder to have a dialogue. After all, it is very typical that there should be dialogue, including at official level, with Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112458	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112500	So, as I said, and I can repeat this: the Enhedslisten works in all the forums where we are present to advance the line that we think is right. And that applies completely, whether we think it's a real place to be or not. As long as we're there, we're working for it. That is our position. And I still want to ask: how do you break off the dialogue just because you are not running down billions of euros to Turkey? Is it also to interrupt the dialogue that it has now been decided to restrict pre-accession aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112538	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112541	It is only rarely that Enhedslisten pulls something down from the EU in general when it does not fit into the world picture. I would just say that, after all, it is easier to bring something from the European Parliament that does not have the same binding as if it were from a government. Then you can sit and pass everything down there. In order to go back a little and then the rapporteur has to correct me, if that is wrong, then it is the case that officials have to be on a list of sanctions. And that means, as we have seen with Russian oligarchs on the list of sanctions, that they cannot enter. Then it is just that we are saying that it is quite difficult to have a dialogue with Turkey if it cannot also be conducted at official level. This is one of the things we have enjoyed in Denmark, where we have been able to summon ambassadors and other people and say that we will not accept these bribes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112617	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112621	Thank you. As I read the motion for a resolution, and I am also looking forward to asking Enhedslisten whether it really is that the whole opinion of the European Parliament, which is, after all, very nuanced, and which I actually think comes a lot of what Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen talks about this balance and that there is another Turkey. There will be among other things. talked about the fact that what is being done must be appropriate and targeted and that, of course, it should not affect civil society and the people who have been hard hit. So the opinion of the European Parliament itself, with all the many points that are not listed in the resolution, is not something that is supported by the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112701	Yes, the wording of how serious it is, both what is happening in Syria and in Turkey, we agree with, and I perhaps miss the answer: where does the criticism come from that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have not been clear in relation to the fact that what has happened is unacceptable? Wherever you are political, I believe that as a government we have been very clear about this. But there are some elements in it, as the Foreign Minister said. There is the arms embargo here, and we are not exporting weapons to Turkey that are being used in relation to this. So there's also something double-confect in it. Then this is a problem in relation to the fact that there is no dialogue at official level, and I also think that this trade issue is a problem. I think we rarely get anything out of not dealing with people, and we can see that something positive is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112734	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112737	Okay, but I just had to understand if it was this whole statement by the European Parliament that was opposed, and I can hear that there are quite a lot of things in it that are not shared in the Socialist Group here in the Danish Parliament. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112748	You're welcome. However, we fully agree that what is happening in Turkey is very serious. We just disagree with some of the points in the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112756	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112800	Thank you, President. I understand that, in principle, we agree with the content, but there are some considerations that would perhaps leave it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I think that this debate and this resolution by the European Parliament, which is so specifically concerned with the situation in Syria, should perhaps nevertheless call for a little more reflection on how the whole European process is going in relation to Turkey, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on that. We have tried several times to ask whether it was not time to stop this masquerade, which pretends that Turkey can become a member of the European Union, and I could now read last night that Erdogan has come up with a new idea: that paedophilia must be legal if only one can convince the girl who has been raped that she should marry one. That is a picture of where Turkey is going, and I would just like to ask whether it is Turkey, as Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen looks closer to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112900	No, certainly not, and I do not believe that any social democrats think that Turkey is in any way near EU membership. I would say that the Socialist opposition, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also knows, because some of them also sit in the Council of Europe, has been very clear about this law, which correctly means that if you attack a minor and you promise to marry him, you can avoid punishment. It is therefore totally unacceptable and something that we know from the most Islamist countries. So what is happening in Turkey is deeply worrying, also in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112928	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130112930	Well, then, isn't it time we changed our strategy, sir? Lars Aslan Rasmussen? Now, for 50 years or more, the good has been tried, with the appealing, with the bribes, and Erdogan is probably pleased with the billions that drive right into the boxes, because he must also ensure that the external border is guarded. Was it perhaps time for us to start with the hard thing, that is to say we simply said that if this does not stop, we will terminate the association agreement and terminate all the cooperation agreements that exist today? In fact, I think a man like Erdogan would have more respect for that than the sweet talk we hear from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113005	I don't recognize the picture that this is such a sweet talk. I think that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice are very clear when it comes to Turkey and where we stand. Then we can always discuss how we should approach it, but the rapporteur knows very well that there is a very strong secular opposition in Turkey which, despite all sorts of obstacles, which, despite censorship and imprisonment, has won a municipal election and which was very close to winning a vote that gave Erdogan the total power and which they would have won if there had been a real democracy in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113031	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113042	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling a motion for a resolution on an important issue. I would also like to say that, as such, I am delighted to see that the Enhedslisten is increasingly coming to the realization that the European Union and EU cooperation can be used for something and can move something, not least foreign policy, which small Denmark would have difficulty with alone. So I think that is a good thing. The Unity List refers to a resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 24 October 2019 under the heading of the Turkish military operation in North-East Syria and its consequences, and is a resolution containing a number of calls, including: on an EU-wide arms embargo on Turkey, targeted sanctions and visa bans, as well as any suspension of trade preferences in relation to the Agreement on Agricultural Products. At least these are the measures that Enhedslisten has chosen to focus on in the resolution. A lot more has been contained, but that is the focus of the resolution itself. Our starting point is that there are a great many good moves in that resolution, and the Left agrees that there is a value in uniting to push Turkey, and that is what we are already doing in the European Union. I also understand that, in view of Turkey's military actions in Syria, there is a desire to turn the button even more with sanctions, but we also have to remember that we are in a difficult balance. Turkey is a member of NATO and is an important NATO member, not least because of its geographical location, and Turkey also plays a crucial role in the area of migration. There are about 3.5 million refugees today in Turkey and we have no interest in pushing Turkey further away from us, let alone in the arms of Russia. So it is a very difficult and delicate balance. We must condemn Turkey's actions and we must call on Erdogan to withdraw from Syria, but we have already done so. We in the European Union have done so in a joint statement, and the Minister and previous ministers have taken every opportunity to do so, and I would like to express my appreciation here. After all, we in Parliament have also agreed on this and it is part of what the resolution contains to stop all arms exports to Turkey, and it is also a strong signal to send and not just a signal, but it is also something that will have practical significance. We have tightened the line, and the question is how much to tighten it up. We therefore believe that the adoption of this motion for a resolution would be to go too far, and it would also be to give Erdogan an opportunity in fact to receive more support, because many of the sanctions we are talking about are, after all, very likely to affect the more open and western, friendly part of the Turkish population. So much recognition for the Enhedslisten to draw attention to the problem and great recognition for the acceptance of the EU I will not say the enthusiasm for the EU, because the trees are not growing into the sky or, at least, the understanding of the Enhedslisten that we can use the EU's foreign policy. I think it is nice to note that that view is spreading to more and more parties in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113434	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113438	Thank you, President. When you go in and read this resolution on the European Parliament's website, you can also see, in addition to the text, who is behind the text. The largest group of Members of the European Parliament who are responsible comes from a group called Renew, whom I assume Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is familiar with. There are Danish members of Renew who are behind this resolution. And for the information of people who may not be up to date on the formations of groups in the European Parliament, that is the group that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's party belongs to the European Parliament. That's why I'd just like to hear it now, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen believes that this resolution pushes Turkey into the arms of Russia, whether he has any indication of whether his party colleagues down in the European Parliament have expressed the wish or what kind of dissertation we are experiencing here in the Renew movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113540	According to the motion for a resolution, Renew is not behind it. It is the EPP, the Conservatives, the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Confederal Group of the European United Left. I know that Renew is not a co-author of the resolution in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113558	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113601	No, that's right, and the final text negotiated, the consolidated text, is different, but the original one, which was referred to with reference number RCB90123/2019 - it's just for the protocol and interested people are behind a very, very large group of Renew members. But okay, let's just take it comfortably and say: Jan E. Jørgensen's group members in the European Parliament will vote in favour, is it because they want to push Turkey into the arms of Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113640	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113643	There is one more brief comment. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113647	Now, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is still new to the Folketing. That's why Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, of course, completely excused that he does not know about the hundreds of proposals that Enhedslisten has put forward here since we entered 1994, about what we called on the European Union to do in all sorts of different areas, both foreign policy and domestic policy. But we can take that over a cup of coffee someday, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is interested. What gets me on the platform is that one might wonder that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen may think that what we are proposing is too tight when it is the official policy of the Left that negotiations with Turkey on membership should be completely suspended and that Turkey should never be able to join the European Union. Well, isn't it anything tighter than the very modest demands we make here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113750	Thank you for the historical lesson. I'm always happy to have coffee with sir. Søren Søndergaard. I would also like to drink other fluids along with Mr. Søren Søndergaard is usually quite cozy. We say that we cannot imagine what Turkey we know today will ever become a member of the European Union. So, Turkey is moving in the wrong direction, no doubt about it. Miracles have happened before. If I had been asked, let us say 1987, that is, even further back than Enhedslisten's foundation in 1994 ■ when parties like the Danish Communist Party and others were held, if I could imagine Hungary becoming a member of the European Union, would I have said: Hungary? Are you out of your mind? It is a Communist dictatorship; it can never happen, never. But miracles happen. I hope that there will be a miracle one day in Turkey and that democracy will really gain ground so that Turkey can join us. But as things stand now, it is unfortunately appallingly unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113858	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113900	Some believe in miracles, others try to promote them. It is, after all, like the difference here: what we can do to promote a change in Turkey. And all right, I understand that the Left does not think these proposals are good and that it is better to inform Turkey that they will probably never become a member, but could Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen perhaps imagine some intermediate ways that could do a little more than what we are doing today to promote the miracles?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130113928	I do not think it is fair to have a picture that makes it look as if someone is fighting for something to happen in Turkey, and others are just waiting for a miracle to happen. If I were now to suggest that we should go to war with Turkey, I also think that the Enhedslisten would say: it is perhaps just to tighten it up. So I don't think that's fair. It's not about the target that we agree. It is about the means and timing, i.e. when to pull the sharper weapon out of your ammunition box, which is now thought to be needed. So it's just a matter of timing and how hard you have to go to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114004	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114018	Thank you, President. And not least thank you to Enhedslisten for raising a relevant debate about the EU's and, indeed, Denmark's relationship with Turkey. In all these years, and it is now a few that I have taken part in this discussion, it has been heard that it is extremely important that we keep the Turks at the negotiating table, because things can be affected in this way and you can pull Erdogan and the company in the right direction. I would say that we in the Danish People's Party are gradually beginning to ask the rather fundamental question: how is Turkey moving in the so-called right direction? Of course, there may be some philosophical reflection on what could be the right thing to do, but if you want to draw Turkey in a so-called European direction, then things are going really, really bad. What you have to bear in mind, and it is especially with reference to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is that it may well be that there is a strong opposition in Turkey, but there are indeed strong groups that support Erdogan's line. As soon as you get outside Constantinople and cross the Bosporus Strait, you see that you are moving further and further into the darkness. The question has to be asked: is it even realistic with this fidel approach taken by both the European Union and, of course, by the Danish Government to draw Turkey in our direction? Or is it perhaps time for us to say this consistently? This is true in relation to the Enhedslisten's proposals in relation to the military actions that Turkey has undertaken, but also quite generally in relation to the internal policy line taken by Erdogan's regime, where, as we were talking about just now, we are now going to legitimise sexual assaults on young girls if only the perpetrator can convince the girl's parents as it probably must be, because it is hardly the child himself who is allowed to make the decision that marriage should be concluded afterwards. These are simply thoughts which are so fundamentally removed from everything which, after all, is represented by the European Enlightenment, respect for the individual and so on. And no, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, it is not a declaration of war against Turkey, but what one might ask is whether we are not in a situation where Erdogan is waging a kind of war against Europe. In other words, the fact that Erdogan repeatedly threatens Europe and Denmark too, that if the billions do not keep pouring in, and if we do not continue to enjoy the privileges that have been given to Turkey, then we will just let the flow of refugees into Europe, is that not a real threat? Is it not a threat that a whole continent will be destabilised if that continent does not continue to submit to the demands of Ankara? That's how I see it. That is why we simply have to fight hard, and it has to be said that it is a hesitant, foot-to-foot, sluggish and defaitistic government that we have today. I'm sure sir. Jeppe Kofod has a great future ahead of him as EU Commissioner he will fit in as well as he does in the Social Democratic Government. We are in favour of the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten, but we feel that it may not be quite enough. One of the amendments that we tabled in the debate in the European Parliament and against which all Danes voted, apart from our own representative, Mr President. Mr Kofod said that all funding for Turkey in the pre-accession process and the EU-Turkey action plan had to be suspended at the same moment and that all negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU had to be formally and definitively concluded. We would have liked to have brought these things with us. But there is no doubt that, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard proposes is a step in the right direction, so we sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114440	Thank you. Before I make a brief comment, I should just like to remind you that we refer to the ministers with their title and not with their name. Sir. Jens Rohde has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114450	That's because you're arguing with the office and not with the person. But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is allowed to discuss with me. I'm gonna be a little tempted now, Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt in his questions suggested that one could say stop for that and that agreement it is just before we get near such a cold war declaration, perhaps, to Turkey to ask: Does Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and the Danish People's Party are also calling for the withdrawal of the refugee agreement that has been made with Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114530	Thank you, President. I actually think I'll be inspired by it and say: Well, I'd like to declare Cold War on Erdogan. I really think it is disgraceful if only the Danish People's Party dares to do so. When you see how Erdogan completely neglects the democracy of his country, the position of women, the position of journalists, flirts with the most darkened Middle Eastern regimes, I think, in fact, that there is a need to declare cold war, yes. This also applies to the refugee agreement. I think it is a disgraceful deal for Erdogan to be bribed in this way to do a job for him. Of course, what we should have done was not to make the big cheque with the billions, but to say to Erdogan that if he did not get all the Assyrians under control that he himself let into his country by granting them visa freedom when there were good relations between him and Assad, he would feel all our anger. But we do not dare to do so, for the pacifist Europe, which is built on the ideas which Mr. Jens Rohde himself is thinking about radicalism and peace and pacifism, and what I know will never defend himself, and they think they can bribe even the worst dictator for peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114632	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114641	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. 'Cause I think, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen made a point that something happened in Eastern Europe: some of the regimes fell, and now some of them have joined the European Union. Let us just play with that idea, for it is not only in Western Turkey, we have also seen it in some major cities in Central Turkey, where Erdogan was successfully overthrown. Would it be possible for the Danish People's Party to be open if there was another government party in power? Then perhaps they could be part of the European Union. Or is this also about the fact that the majority in Turkey, if not all, have Muslim backgrounds and that, therefore, you might as well drop having any dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114719	No, never would we ever accept a Muslim country in the European Union, and especially not a country with such a population as Turkey. Now Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen was very good at Turkey's history. If we just take the modern history since the founding, when we were on the loser side of World War I and the Kemalists tried to penetrate, then we have seen how the pendulum is continuously swinging between the Kemalists and the Islamists. Three times, I think, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen must correct me if I am wrong... one has had to get the army in to throw dictatorial forces out of government offices. The guarantee power which the army constituted, Erdogan has managed with the madness of outgoing from Brussels as assistance has been squeezed out of the Constitution. So everything that's in Turkey's recent history indicates that these forces are waving between each other: Islamists against chemists. And, of course, Turkey should not be allowed in, even at a time when the Kemalists are in power. After all, you end up letting a wolf in sheep's clothing, and soon after that it swings again, and then we have the Islamists sitting in Brussels. In fact, it is almost even worse, no, it is actually even worse than those who are sitting in Brussels today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114817	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114820	I recognize it with the military coup. One of the military coups was actually directed at a Socialist, Kemalist government that was removed, where the Prime Minister in question lived at home with Anker Jørgensen for a period of time. So social democracy has always been on the right track when it comes to Turkey. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur: can we not at least recognise that there are forces in Turkey that actually look at many of the same things in the same way as Mr Tugendhat did? Morten Messerschmidt makes it in relation to child brides, in relation to Islamists, that it is not actually just one or two people, but that it actually exists in many places in Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114851	Definitely. I know many Turks, whom I regard as allies, as good friends, and who view life in the same way. It is just not going to overshadow that Turkey, as a Muslim country, is still a very different size from that of Hungary, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen spoke earlier. In other words, the fact that an ideological political regime of terror is falling apart is based on convincing people that they are politically wrong. It's about conviction, it's something that's going on up in the head. But to have to convince people that they are religiously mistaken, that the book of Allah from the year 680, or what it is, is wrong, is a much greater task. And I do not remember any examples in the history of the world that have succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114931	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130114939	It is so good that we always replace each other, because then we will really have the different views respected. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for making this proposal. Because, in reality, it forms part of a debate that we should have much more carefully here. I really think it is a pity that this is a motion for a resolution which seeks to adopt the resolution of the European Parliament. Sir. Søren Søndergaard knows how enthusiastic I am about the European Parliament, but why should the resolution of others be adopted? There are, however, things in the resolution that I think go too far, among other things. We must threaten to abolish the customs union. These are no more customs unions we need in the world. It is the opposite, not least if you want to strengthen the forces that do not have to do with Erdogan. However, we should almost have a question debate in which we will then make a proposal for the adoption of what the government should then work for. In fact, I think we will be able to negotiate something that can then be taken into account in the Council. As I said, my love for the European Parliament is very, very great. However, when you have been sitting down there helping to make votes and having been involved in discussions on numerous resolutions on foreign and security policy, you know that the chin of the European Parliament is that the European Parliament has no responsibility for what they are doing there. After all, competence lies elsewhere, as the Foreign Minister rightly says. That is why it sometimes becomes very idealistic. And I love idealism. I think there is far too little idealism in politics, but one can also get into something where the best becomes the worst enemy of the good. And that is what I fear about it if you just take the European Parliament's very, very far-reaching resolution. Then we can tease each other about who voted what. I also believe that the Danish radical Members have voted in favour of this resolution, and if you have been sitting in the European Parliament, you cannot help thinking: would I have voted in favour myself if I had been sitting down there? I can't deny that. However, I have always been concerned about the foreign policy which the European Parliament wants to conduct because it has no responsibility with it. That is why our answer to the Enhedslisten's question will also be that we cannot support the resolution. However, we think that we should perhaps take the initiative together for a debate and then adopt our own resolution. Now I know that we cannot adopt a resolution in this Parliament. The nearest we come is probably a proposal for adoption. But there is something that we should be able to sort out, which is our text. For then we are also sure what we are interpreting out of the text that is coming. 'Cause I can promise you, sir. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and others who want to declare cold war, and what do I know, in relation to Turkey, that if you now take the resolution from the European Parliament and then the various groups in the European Parliament ask how they interpret the text in both words and in terms of what you want from action, it is very different. That is why we should make our own interpretation, because no one should be in any doubt that there is every reason to criticise what is happening in Turkey. Nobody disagrees about that in this room. But we must also do so in the right way and with the interpretation that we can agree on from here. So, with all due respect for the idealism that lies in this proposal, and the very right thing to do is to focus on it and thank you for that, sir. Søren Søndergaard then it becomes a little no, as I think it is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115344	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115347	What do you want? Sir. Moreover, Mr Rohde is now speaking and I think that is a credit to him for his concern about the mentality of the European Parliament. I think it's right to do that. The rest of us have been warning against this for so many years. But what do you want? So, what is the line that the Radical Left wants to take against Erdogan? I guess Erdogan's basic, seen with radical glasses, just a friend you haven't really talked about yet, I guess. So what is this strategy, the Radical Left and Mr. Jens Rohde imagines that Turkey can be talked into the European track? Because, as I hear it, it is still the ambition of the Radical Left that Turkey should be a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115429	This is just not the case with Turkey that we have today. And that is what is also widely agreed in the Folketing, and Morten Messerschmidt has a different approach. I just want to try to turn it around and ask: what happened in 2009 when Angela Merkel said that Turkey should be offered a privileged partnership instead of membership? So there actually came a perfectly natural reaction where they said: have you been negotiating in a frightful manner over all these years? And what did Erdogan do? After all, he turned around, and then he made visa and trade agreements with all the North African countries, with the result that the flow of refugees really started. And the Turks did not want them, that is, those who came up through Turkey, so they sent them over Evros. That was the situation we were faced with. I know, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also knows it and remembers it because we came to the European Parliament at the same time and stood by the refugee flows that came over Evros. You just have to remember that, and that is why I say that you should be careful when acting in foreign policy, in relation to if not the best end up being the worst enemy of the good. And I think that's the Cold War, sir. Morten Messerschmidt launches leads to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115538	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115540	I remember it quite clearly. And I remember how a direct line went, you might almost say, from the way the European Union chose to act, to the Radical Left. Just as steadfastly the European Union refused to guard its own maritime border, the Radical Left has, of course, glamorised by not guarding the Danish border when it has been necessary. But what I really want to ask is whether Mr. Jens Rohde, when Mr. Jens Rohde says that yes, Turkey must be a member of the European Union, but that it should not just be the Turkey that we have today, so could not say the same thing about all sorts of other countries? What about Russia? Why not bring Russia? It just needs to be another Russia than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115616	It's such a rather hypothetical question. But I have to say that we are in favour of guarding the Danish border and also the external borders. You just have to do it a little bit more intelligent than you do it with the state police that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Left have established. People are mobile, and so border controls should be mobile too, so you get the most security out of the resources you spend on it. That is basically just the approach we have to it. You know, the thing about setting up a border boom in some selected places doesn't work. You can just swim over Flensburg Fjord it is not very difficult; it is 30 m in the narrowest area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115654	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur, as I see in the Chamber, is from the Conservative People's Party, and this is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130115717	I would also like to sign the Enhedslisten to table this motion for a resolution, so that we will once again discuss the serious situation and discuss the European Union, as we did yesterday. So it is good that we can discuss the European Union in this Chamber and get the European Union more out; I think that is very positive. Then we can also see what happens to the decisions taken in the European Union, what resolutions are adopted and how they might affect our policy here in Denmark. However, we have already adopted the proposal for adoption, which the Foreign Minister also mentioned, in which we also go in and say that we want an arms embargo on Turkey. We repeated Parliament's criticism of the negative developments in Turkey and we condemned Turkey's military intervention in north-east Syria, and we also indicated that there can be no enlargement negotiations with the Turkey we see today, also because Turkey is moving further and further away from the European Union and our democratic values. But Turkey, as has also been mentioned, is very complex for us, because the geopolitical location of Turkey, among other things, has been a source of great pleasure to us in the past. in connection with our war in or stabilisation of Iraq; they are important in the Middle East and they are important in relation to the refugee situation. It must also be said that they are doing a great deal of work in many ways in relation to refugees, although large parts of the refugee situation are very problematic. We have also indicated that we want to keep pressure on Turkey, and I believe that we must do so, and we must be active in that pressure. However, we do not think we should go further and adopt the resolution adopted by the European Parliament. I know that our own group, the EPP, has voted in favour, and I have also spoken to them, and I think that is fine, and I think it is strong that Europe is going out with such a strong mark against Turkey. But we do not think that we need to turn this into a Danish policy by going out and imposing sanctions on officials or, for that matter, the customs union by going so far. There are many other ways we need to go to strengthen democracy, as was also mentioned earlier, to strengthen the democratic opposition, and we must continue to put pressure on it. The situation in northern Syria is very problematic. We ourselves sat at the meeting and heard about Rojava and the invasion there, and there is no doubt that this is something that needs to be focused on, but we do not believe that we will vote in favour of this proposal from the Enhedslisten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120020	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120027	It's one of the little ones coming up here, so we're gonna have to lower the power of speech. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think it is very good that we in the Danish Parliament should actually follow up when resolutions are drawn up in the European Parliament, so that we have an exchange and political cooperation between the various democratic levels on which we are based from Denmark. I think that's really, really good. The resolution that lies behind us also fully supports it, and if we had been sitting in the European Parliament, we would probably also have chosen as a party to support it. That is why we can also support this motion for a resolution. I have a question for the Enhedslisten. You've chosen to take some things out. But I assume that the motion for a resolution covers the whole resolution as well. Because what I think is very important in that resolution are some of the points that are not specifically mentioned in the resolution. It is, of course, that there is another Turkey as well. And when we make economic measures against Turkey, for example, we must, of course, ensure that it does not affect civil society or people who are already very badly affected. In other words, we have to have the balance of going in and putting pressure on a regime that is quite wrong, but we still have to support the other part. There is also the call for European countries to take home the children who are in Syrian camps. I think this is also a very, very important part of the resolution that we also take responsibility for the Danish children and of course bring them home. That is also what the resolution says and which we support. There is, of course, also what is stated in paragraph 19, which is, of course, about the commitment to humanitarian aid to Syria's neighbouring countries. But there is also the whole point that we must, of course, continue to look at how sanctions and other measures are not going to do anything about the good things we have with Turkey. This is Erasmus+, for example. This should not affect young Turkish students. So we are very, very much in favour of the balance contained in the resolution. And if the Enhedslisten can confirm that it should be read as we have done, precisely that it is the resolution we support here, we can of course support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120303	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120306	Thank you. Now the whole issue of the European Union and Turkey is difficult. This resolution is, after all, a motion for a resolution which comes from some who are EU opponents. I hear the rapporteur as being enthusiastic about the European Union. And then I think that you always have to look around and see who you really are on the team with. So has the rapporteur of the Alternative considered whether he might join a team that actually does not want the European Union at all, as we know it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120353	Yes, I can see that I am on the side of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, with the Conservative EPP Group in the European Parliament, with the Greens in the European Parliament and with the European left in the European Parliament. I do not regard any of the four groups as particularly EU-sceptic, but rather as some who work very proactively and well in the European Parliament. What this resolution is doing is showing some ways, in terms of how we can actually go in with regard to the difficult relationship with Turkey. So I see no EU criticism in this resolution, nor do I see a major EU criticism from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120430	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120431	Now we hear that the alternative does not actually sit in the European Parliament, so what I meant was to look around the Chamber. This is where we're standing right now. And as I hear the debate on this proposal, it is probably almost EU opponents who think this is good and the rest of us are going another way. So these are the people I think the alternative should relate to here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120509-2	I always think it is important, when we discuss motions for resolutions in this Chamber, to deal with the substance of the matter. I have heard several rapporteurs being up here and actually, I think, try to derail the debate by making it deal with the EU position of Enhedslisten. That's not what this is about for me. It is about this very good resolution that has been adopted by the European Parliament, which we support. So we are dealing with substance in the Parliamentary Chamber. We would have done the same in the European Parliament, but we are very much doing so here too. This is about a resolution adopted by all the parties I mentioned before in Parliament, and we can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120543	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120547	I think it is very relevant to mention that Enhedslisten really wants to get out of the European Union when they bring it out now, but we can take that when Søren Søndergaard has delivered his rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the alternative: what exactly is it that we disagree with the Danish Government about? It does not seem that the Danish Government has been clear enough both in the condemnation of the invasion of Syria and in relation to Erdogan's many other abuses of human rights, including those relating to human rights. the things that have happened with the stick line in Denmark? In other words, do you not really think that you are satisfied? Now I am thinking in a Danish context with the government's action in relation to Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120621	Well, I don't really see any criticism of the government in this resolution. I see a motion for a resolution requiring the government to work in the Council for the calls contained in the European Parliament's resolution. So there is no criticism of what the government has done or not done. This is about a resolution adopted by the European Parliament, which the Parliament is asking the government to take into the Council. So I don't see the criticism of the government. I do not see that this is about a for or against the European Union. I can see that this is about a resolution, and I am really happy to discuss the European Union with the Enhedslisten, because I think they are also wrong there, but this is about this resolution, and that is actually what I think we should be discussing here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120702	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120704	But I have to understand this correctly, because all I think the rapporteur is talking about is this Erasmus project that it should not be allowed to go beyond that in relation to Turkish students. Well, there are other things. Among other things, it will be possible at official level to hold some conversations, but if you come on a list of sanctions, it is not possible to do what you are doing today. Is the alternative not in favour of us having some kind of dialogue with Turkey? And does the alternative not also recognise that there is actually a weapons boycott in relation to Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120731	The great thing about texts from the European Parliament is that they have been translated into all languages, including Danish, and I do not see that all officials are to be sanctioned. I can see that what Parliament is asking for is very targeted. I think it is balanced and targeted, so I think we should not make a strawman and say that it is about the fact that there is no contact with Turkey at all. That's not exactly what it says. It is a very balanced resolution, which I think we should all be able to support, following on from the policy pursued by the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120800	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120802	What makes me ask a question is what we heard earlier from Mrs Mette Gjerskov. For as I experience the alternative, the movement that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and also Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist represents, then it is an attempt to meet across disagreements, to stress the dialogue and listen to each other and perhaps the way through to find some compromises. I'd just like to hear how sir. Nordqvist then looks at the view of democracy that we hear here from the Social Democrats, that is to say, if you are an opponent of the European Union, you are outside. Then we can't talk to them. You have to make up for yourself, whether you are in one camp or in the other camp, and between the two camps you have to build waterproof bulkheads. It is to me to see a completely different approach to the democratic conversation than that, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and his party or movement represent, and I just want to know if he can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120857	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120858	I think that something that is really a pity for the themes we are addressing about EU policy here in the Folketing is that it always becomes a discussion about for or against. Quite often it is the questioner himself who makes it deal with that question; now it is some others who take it up. I think it should be about substance, so yes, I am talking and we are very much talking about trying to find solutions, but we are also dealing with substance. And what I have actually tried to do in this debate is to address the resolution to which Enhedslisten refers in their motion for a resolution. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120931	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130120932	I think this is extremely commendable, and I remember that when we had the debate prior to the vote on the legal reservation, we also had some constructive discussions between my party and the rapporteur, whether there was anything we could meet on. Then it ended up not there, but at least we tried. In conclusion, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not think that the view of democracy that Mrs Gjerskov is showing here sends out a rather worrying signal to the potential social democrats in society who may not love the European Union as much as Mrs Gjerskov does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121003	No, that would be making a strawman on Mrs Mette Gjerskov, and I remember the good debates with my former chairman of the Committee on European Affairs too well for me to make a strawman on the questions she is asking in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121016	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121019	In the Radical Left, we do not care whether a cat is black or white, as long as it can catch mice. That is also why we have made a housing agreement with a group other than the one we had expected, but that is quite a different discussion. What is a little bit awkward is that such discussions quickly end up in a joke about who voted what in parliament and who is usually for or against and something like that. This should not be the case, so full support for the line and full sympathy for the conclusion drawn from the alternative. But what I want to ask is whether the alternative in that resolution does not see a certain danger to what I mentioned in my own speech, namely that we risk doing the best for the worst enemy of good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121106	Yes, I see such a danger to it. It is, of course, the balancing approach that I also said before, which I think is most important, but which I really think is being upset here. Because I think we need to act and react to what is happening in Turkey, both within Turkey and also in relation to the military attacks that are in northern Syria, etc. Unfortunately, the European Union has made a refugee agreement with Turkey, which we have opposed from the outset, because we believe that we are going to bind ourselves on our hands and feet in relation to Turkey. Therefore, there are some reactions that will be necessary and we believe that the reactions contained in this resolution are actually sensible when we sit and balance them. But it is true that there is the danger that Mr. Jens Rohde's pointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121147	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121147-2	That's exactly what happened. Our problem here is that we are not living on a desert island. After all, we are deeply dependent on Turkey on many fronts. I do not like the refugee agreement either, but it is from a purely human perspective and not just from our own interests, which we always have to discuss quite unilaterally in this matter. The fact is, however, that the price can be very high, both in relation to the opposition that is in Turkey and, indeed, if we are finally to take it in relation to our own interests. And how does the alternative weigh that argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121228	I fully agree, but what we are emphasising is the need for a response, and I think that the reactions we have seen so far from the Council and from the various governments in Europe have been too weak. That is why I think that the points which are outlined here and which are constantly balanced are sensible. Because I think there is a need for a stronger response to what we see Turkey doing internally, in terms of human rights, democratically, and also in terms of the military attacks in Northern Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121300	Thank you. Then the next person to make a brief comment, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121304	Thank you. In October, a few proposals for decisions were made here in the Folketing expressing criticism of Turkey. Against this background, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not consider that we should continue to cooperate with Turkey as a NATO country, including with regard to trade and the resolution of migration challenges. Can the present motion for a resolution not risk escalating, because some may also feel some of the forces in Turkey who actually have some of the same intentions as us in terms of democracy and human rights, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121351	I am very pleased that so many Social Democrats are interested in this debate today. It would not surprise many of them if they had followed the debate, both in the autumn and in the last many years here in the Folketing, where we are politically in relation to the response that is necessary to Turkey. This is very much in line with what the European Parliament has put forward here. It is a balance between not being toothless and just standing and saying that we are critical and then putting action behind words. I think it makes sense for the Council to agree on all or part of what is contained in this resolution. That is what the motion for a resolution is asking for, namely that the government should work actively for it here in the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121430	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121431	But when you do, for example... Why not at least keep the line open to officials?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121451	I do not think that this resolution envisages that we have no dialogue and that we have no channels for Turkey, that is, between the European Union and Turkey, and I really believe that if you have read it that way, you should try to read one of the other translations of it. Apparently, you haven't understood what it says. It says precisely that relations must be there, but that we must show that the attacks on human rights in Turkey are not in order; the attacks on democratic rules of play and the military attacks in northern Syria. It needs to be responded to, and it is being asked to be a firm response from a united European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121529	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Before we go further in the rapporteur's line, I would just like to say that there is a lot of talk in this Chamber, and that goes through very clearly here up to the platform, so you may very much pull out a little to the side if you want to continue talking. Thank you. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121555	Thank you. B 52 is based on the fact that in the Danish Parliament we must follow a resolution adopted by the European Parliament. One might be tempted to take action against Turkey. In new citizens, for example, we would like it to be established that Turkey will never become a member of the European Union. Turkey has no place in the European Union and must never be a member. Nor, to put it mildly, has the argument that Turkey should be drawing in a more western direction to become a candidate country proved true. However, we should not allow the European Parliament to decide on vital areas of Danish foreign policy, nor, for that matter, on Danish foreign policy. Turkey is a NATO country, which is why it is natural that the matter should be dealt with there and that the government should make the position of Denmark known in that forum. We politicians must ensure that Denmark's foreign policy is determined in Denmark and not in the European Parliament. Fortunately, we can still do so, and it is good that the European Parliament does not have any influence on it. That is why we do not support B 52.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121657	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121709	Thank you for the floor. I am, of course, immediately sorry that I had a conversation with my sideman down at the far end of the Parliamentary Chamber. It won't happen again until next time. And thank you for a good debate. In May 2017, SF's then Foreign Secretary, Holger K. Nielsen, and I under the auspices of Foreign Policy Name a visit to Istanbul. This included, inter alia: a wide range of talks with democratic politicians, researchers and representatives of NGOs. I'm bringing this trip up because I can fully confirm it, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has highlighted that there is another Turkey. The second Turkey supports democratic and constitutional principles and rejects Erdogan in the large cities. From the circles we visited, the message to Holger K. Nielsen and me was quite clear: you cannot just let the darkness sink over Turkey; it simply cannot. I also agree with that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has said about the risk of a closer alliance between Turkey and Russia. The result of such an alliance would of course be that the Black Sea became such a Russian-Turkish inland sea. This would, of course, be a completely intolerable situation for very many countries, not least good EU countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. We did not support proposals for adoption No. V 7, which the Foreign Minister referred to when it was put to the vote. We did not do so because we believe that the time has come to be clearer with regard to the European Union and not to pretend that Turkey is on its way as a Member State. Turkey is not. On the other hand, we supported proposals for adoption No. V-3, which was also mentioned by the Foreign Minister, who condemned Turkey's actions in Syria. Both were put to the vote at the beginning of November last year. However, despite disagreements on the EU issue, we understand ourselves as part of the broad Turkey consensus that is in the Folketing, both because of the adoption of proposals for adoption No. V 3 and because of our perception that Turkey belongs in NATO. Therefore, and in accordance with the consensus that I think we can talk about, we cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130121953	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The last person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130122010	So the starting point for this debate is neither the European Union nor the resolution. The starting point for the debate: and perhaps not so many people have dealt with it is what has happened after the attack by Turkey in Rojava, northern Syria. Rojava has been a very special area throughout the Middle East, not only because of the relationship between men and women, not only because it has been relatively peaceful, not only because it has welcomed many refugees, but also because people from many different cultures and with different ethnic backgrounds live together there Kurds, Arabs and Assyrian Christians. That is why it has been a very special area, and that is why it is of course very interesting to discuss what the consequences have been for a NATO country, a candidate country for the European Union, a country which we support in many ways, to intervene in relation to that area. The immediate consequence was that 320,000 people were driven on the run; it was that several thousand were killed and wounded, including politicians who were wounded; it is that 86,000 children are prevented from going to school because of refugee flows; and it is, perhaps above all, that the fight against the Islamic State has been weakened. This is something that is talked about a great deal on solemn occasions, that is, the fight against the Islamic State. But it is clear that when our NATO allies and the EU applicant country Turkey attack this area, the troops in that area must, of course, defend themselves instead of continuing the fight against the Islamic State. So the Turkish invasion has been a direct aid to the Islamic State. So we in the Folketing, as has rightly been said, have gathered together to distance ourselves from this. And I think that's brilliant. We have not raised any criticism of this at all. Moreover, we have not raised any criticism of the government either in this resolution or in general. On the contrary, we have been pleased that we could reach an agreement to condemn the Turkish attack. Since then, however, we have to note that something has happened. Something has happened since that time, namely that, despite the ceasefire and despite our demand for Turkey to withdraw, Turkey has not only remained but has continued its attack. Let's just take the details. Now I've just been down there to visit the area myself. I think that should be done when dealing with such things, so you have to visit the area. And it was in mid-December that I was there. From October to mid-December, 148 attacks have been carried out with ground troops. There have been 124 air attacks by the Turkish side. 147 attacks have been carried out with long-range guns from Turkish territory into the country. This has meant that a lot of people, besides those who had already been killed, have been killed, and besides the self-defense forces also saw civilians. This means that a further 64,000 additional 64,000 have been driven on the run, and this means that 88 villages have been invaded and taken over by Turkish-supported jihadists, including many Christian villages. That's what's happened. And then we allow ourselves to say in this situation: should we not consider whether we should do a little more? We have done something; it was good; we are happy about it. Should we not consider whether we could do anything more in a situation where ethnic cleansing is taking place, where the indigenous inhabitants are being driven away, and where Erdogan openly declares that he will build two major cities in the occupied territories with half a million inhabitants in each of the major cities half a million inhabitants in each of the cities in an occupied area? That it is not a proposal that comes for fun from Erdogan, we can see, in relation to how he has acted in Afrin, which he conquered 2 years ago, without it having had any consequences. At the time he conquered Afrin, 98 percent. of the population of Afriin Kurds. Today the figure is less than 25%. Ethnic cleansing is taking place while we are discussing this. I'm sorry, but that's ours. That's what makes us say: can't we do a little more than we've done so far? It may well be that it is very ridiculous that I think it is actually very sensible. And then we looked at the resolution from the European Parliament and we found that it had some concrete proposals on what could be done more, and we said: okay, then we put it forward and discuss it in this Chamber. And I can confirm to Rasmus Nordqvist that if it is for the Enhedslisten, it is all of them that we are in fact interested in adopting. That is also what has been said, and I can also say to New Citizens that it is not a question of the European Union deciding our foreign policy. Well, it's gonna be decided here. Everyone is free to do so and we can adopt it, or we can not. If we do not adopt it, it is not our foreign policy; if we adopt it, it is our foreign policy. That is how it is in a democracy. However, we wanted to have that discussion, and we have had that, although I think that some of the speeches have struck a bit at the side of it, for example. when Mrs Mette Gjerskov makes it a question of for or against the European Union. I do not understand where it comes in to a discussion about for or against the EU when it comes to what we as Denmark should do in relation to an ethnic cleansing that is taking place while we are talking. It's about doing something about it. Then Jens Rohde has said that so much is adopted in the European Parliament; everything may not be well thought out; this can be understood in different ways. Point taken. I've been sitting there, too, and I've been in on it, so yes. And that is why it is the case with motions for resolutions that there is a process going on after the motions for resolutions. We put it forward, have a discussion, have some reactions, and then we have the opportunity in committee to go in and make a report where we might agree on some things, so we say: OK, we can then agree on that in Denmark that we do. You can also choose a different model, the model that Mr. Jens Rohde comes along; a model that says that, in the light of the discussion that we have had today, we are reviewing a query debate and trying to agree on some things. We are completely open; there is freedom of choice in relation to the method. What is just what matters to us is that we go a little further than we had come before the ceasefire was concluded; the ceasefire that has proved to be non-stop; the ceasefire that has led to new ethnic cleansings, new flows of refugees, new massacres. That is our only starting point. Those of the Danish Parliament's parties who will be involved in discussing what we can then do more, we welcome. Those who say that they will not discuss that must then choose to say that we will not discuss it. But then you also take a responsibility to keep quiet about what is happening at the moment. So the starting point for us is the situation in Rojava; the starting point is the ethnic cleansing and expulsions that are taking place and the desire that we do more than we have already decided. I look forward to taking that discussion in committee and that we may agree to hold a question debate where we can agree on a proposal for adoption that does a little more. How much more depends on the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130122902	There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130122904	We all come down here with our locked positions, and then we discuss from them, and nothing can be undone. But basically there is nothing worse than resistance to argument, so I would actually like to give it a more ride in the radical group, because I thought there were many good arguments that might be taken on board in some form. So I would just like to say that we will just reserve the right to do so so, so that we can make the final decision, because we have not been so deeply involved in the discussions. I think that a great deal has actually been put on the table here today, which makes it necessary to give careful consideration to its position, because I fully agree that we must find a way of moving forward. So it's just a receipt for it, and then we're gonna take another round without me telling you where we're gonna land.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130122956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130122957	I should like to thank you for that, and I would like to say that this is common sense. Since we adopted in broad agreement the resolution which the Foreign Minister spoke about • we helped to adopt it we have seen how Turkey has not only continued its attacks in Rojava, but has also taken 2 000 jihadists in Idlib in Syria and moved them to Libya and intervened in the Libyan civil war with the aim of supporting the Islamist forces. In other words, one should not be an expert to see what consequences it can have for Europe, that Erdogan now also sits on the second refugee route to Europe and that he supports Islamist forces, not only in Syria, but also in North Africa. So I feel a little bit like those who don't want to discuss what else we can do close their eyes. We need to do more... the question is what. We are open to discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123102	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123108	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, and I think it is commendable to go to Rojava and look at the situation. It's grave serious. After all, it is Turkey on the one hand and Syria on the other, and Syria is also a great exporter of Islamism. I have seen much of this myself in Central Asia, where mosques are sponsored almost one kilometre away in several of the Stan countries. We are still against sanctions as such, because sanctions always become the double-sided sword. It's so easy always to use that instrument. The problem is just what are the criteria for addressing them and what is the democratic repression, and it goes on. However, we will certainly be open to talking about Turkey and what we can do in Turkey in terms of security and foreign policy, in a wider context, and to seeing what instruments we have from NATO and from the European Union and what we can do. We will clearly be open to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123211	Now I hardly dare say it, but I am also against trade sanctions. That is not what is being proposed here. What is being proposed here is that the special concessions granted to Turkey should be abolished. It is the case that Turkey is almost what it will be on the 28th, 29th. EU country. After all, they have very special arrangements that no other country has in relation to the European Union. They have some very special agreements that give them some special advantages, and I feel a little like that if you are going to give some special benefits to someone, I think you should give them to some people, such as myself. do not support Islamist forces. Well, that's just my opinion, and we can disagree on that, and we can discuss that. But that is the way I feel and therefore: no, it is not traditional trade sanctions, nor, of course, the disruption of diplomatic relations, as was almost suggested, but targeted sanctions against officials who have committed crimes, plus, of course, that we do not favour them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123317	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123320	I just think I would like to remind the rapporteur that the invasion in Afrin, in Rojava, was under the previous government. So I do not think that the current government has so much responsibility for that, that is, in terms of how you reacted to it. Because I really think that the current government has been quite clear in relation to the invasion that took place in the autumn. Having said that, we cannot call it trade sanctions, but I know that the rapporteur also knows the Turkish opposition, and I also know that it means a number of things, but can the rapporteur not agree that in the Turkish opposition there are also people who sincerely want us not to push the country too far away that we should be careful about that? At any rate, it is new to me that the opposition should beg and ask: can we not have any favourable trade agreements, and can you please punish us financially? That is certainly not an argument I think I hear very much, and I also think that the rapporteur admits that there is in fact an opposition that won the municipal elections, not only along the coast, but also very many other places, and in an alliance with secular forces and Kurdish forces succeeded in overthrowing Erdogan under very difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123415	Fortunately, there is a strong opposition in Turkey. I can fully confirm that and it has among other things. convinced the Enhedslist that it was a really bad idea to demand that Turkey be excluded from the Council of Europe, despite the fact that they are acting contrary to the Council of Europe in all kinds of areas, because it is precisely said that it will prevent contact with the opposition. So I agree. I have heard them express their views on EU membership, and that is where we have clearly said on the part of the Enhedslisten: we are not in favour of interrupting negotiations on EU membership. It has been one of our disagreements with the Danish People's Party. We have said that they should be put on hold or on some kind of standby until certain conditions were met. I have not heard the opposition say that special officials who committed abuse should not be allowed into the West. I have to admit, I haven't heard. It is possible that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has it, and then we can clear it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123524	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123525	I didn't ask at all about the civil servants we took it earlier; we can take it again now but what I asked was the terms of trade. So, is it the case that the Enhedslisten hears something I have not heard when I talk to my colleagues in the Turkish opposition, in other words that they really want them not to have very favourable trading conditions? And: Can you not enough punish us financially, for that would help? 'Cause it's new to me anyway. I recognise that there may be some other meetings in the Enhedslisten, including in relation to the Council of Europe, where you hear some things, but the trade policy is at least new to me as an argument by the Turkish opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123556	The Turkish opposition has not spoken out about this as an opposition. I believe that there are different views and that there are some who will be in favour of it and believe that it can help and that others will not be in favour of it. What we do not want is for Turkey to be isolated and we do not want to isolate Turkey. Then I would just like to reply to it from before with Afrin: yes, it is true that it was the previous government and we condemned it • Ah, it was not very clear from the previous government. However, I believe that a majority in the Folketing today would condemn the invasion of Afrin, and since then they have ethnically cleansed Kurds so that there is virtually no one left. We must therefore say that we must do more than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123638	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123652	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Dorthe Hindborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123717	Thank you for the floor. This bill is made up of two elements. One part is a number of different taxes, for example on packaging, on registration, on waste water and on raw materials. These and the other charges in the proposal are indexed so that in time the value of the charges will not be eroded, so that it will follow the price developments that otherwise exist. The index applies from this year up to and including 2025. The second part of the bill is a roll-back of the registration fee on aircraft, so that it will be the same level and model as the one that was before, as the now previous government abolished with the Financial Act for 2019. The re-entry shall take effect from 1 January 2021. The bill is estimated to have a revenue of approx. 300 million kr., and this revenue will be used to help strengthen our common welfare and the green transition. That is what we said before the elections that we were going to get started and that we have started now after the elections. It is quite natural to me, as a Social Democrat, that we give priority, as we do, and as we have done since the elections. There is a great need for us to invest again in our common welfare. In addition, we also believe that this is what the electorate said to us on the day of the Constitution: that they wanted us to give priority to welfare and the green transition. Of course we support the proposal, and I must also say that so do the Radicals and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123912	Thanks to the Social Democrat rapporteur and congratulations on the first speech by the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Left, and that is Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130123925	Thank you. From this point of view, congratulations to the Socialist rapporteur for the first speech on the parliamentary platform. After all, the bill here is part of the government's financial law for 2020, which raises taxes and taxes, making it more expensive to be a Dane. One of the proposals is to remove the tax freeze on registration. This helps to make it more expensive to shop housing. That is not a way we think it is sensible to go. It is also a breach of the tax freeze, and the Left fears that this is actually the first step in relation to many new taxes and taxes that will make it more expensive to be a Dane. We want the Danish economy to be calm and not least calm about the economy of Danish homeowners, which is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124020	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124035	This bill deals with a number of things that, in short, can be summed up in the fact that the Danes have to pay more in tax. Here it is about the house owners having to pay more, the owners that gliders have to pay more, people who use water etc. One element is actually an indexing of fixed registration fees, and one can only think when one sits and reads it: what is the purpose of this? For typically, when we have taxes and taxes in Denmark, it is because there is something you want less of. It can be a tax on cigarettes because you want people to smoke something less, but do we want people to shop smaller houses? There must be less mobility, for example. the labour market? Because that is what will be the consequence if you make it more expensive to shop. Is it because we want people not to shop? I find it difficult to imagine such a political objective that people should not shop anymore and that this makes sense. About many of these charges that are indexed, I'm just wondering: what is the point? What do you want to achieve? I think that's really hard to see. Take another element, which is the registration tax on aircraft that you want to re-establish, but it does affect, for example. gliders as well. So, it might be a good argument to say that you would like to have a tax on aircraft, because you want people to fly something less to get less CO2 It does not emit CO2 What is the objective of there being a tax on gliders that people use for sport? There's about, I think it's 38 glider clubs in Denmark. Why do they now need a tax when they register a plane that they use and which does not pollute? It's just that you need money in the box. Let's take a look at this registration fee on planes. If Denmark introduces a tax on aircraft and there is no one in Sweden who is not one in Norway who is not one in Ireland, what do you think happens then? Yeah, well, you probably register the plane in Sweden pretty safely, maybe. So one can say that it is of course fair enough, so it is the Swedes who have a problem with the CO2 For what about those who work as aircraft mechanics and who repair and service these planes? Yeah, they're probably moving pretty safely to Sweden. So although it may be a small matter with a registration fee on aircraft, because it does, after all, provide a limited revenue, we do not think it sounds like a very good idea. And it's pretty unthinkable that after all you think it's fantastic that you should have a tax on gliders who have no CO2 so the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124259	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is from the alternative, Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124307	Thank you. We support the proposal that we have been involved in negotiating in the context of the Financial Law Agreement. When it comes to registration fees on aircraft, we support the financial agreement, because flying, as we all know, is a significant source of CO2 emissions, so one can of course discuss gliders. We support the tripling of the price of carrier bags and one-off services in relation to the current level of packaging tax, because it is necessary to take up the fight in the green transition. We need to reduce the amount of plastic waste, of which only a fraction is recycled. Plastics are made of oil, and when it is burned, it is a contribution to our climate change In the alternative, we sit on needles in order to reduce the harmful environmental impacts of waste management, and this cannot be done quickly enough. That is why I am also pleased that we have dealt with L 92 today, which deals precisely with waste sorting and prevention. Excise duties on land registration, raw materials, pesticides and waste water must be indexed in such a way that the real value of those taxes is not eroded in line with price developments so that the State loses its revenue. The revenue is important because that is what has to finance our green development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124432	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124435	Thank you. I would just like to ask what the deeper meaning is when a majority on the left has made an agreement that means that there will be a registration fee on gliders. The rapporteur says in his speech that it is about using less CO2 That may be a fine consideration, but a glider has no engine. It doesn't emit any CO2 so what is the deeper consideration that one takes by imposing a charge on gliders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124502	I think this is a relevant question and I thank you for it. I think it would be sensible to look at this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124511	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124514	Well, thank you for that statement. So, the alternative has said yes to the agreement, so has it not been investigated? After all, the bill has been approved and an agreement has been approved, so why has it been agreed to make a registration fee on gliders that do not emit CO2 2 It seems a bit strange that you have not done your homework properly before you put this bill forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124538	Thank you. Now we have a procedure called first, second and third readings, which is why I think it is right that we should address it in the second reading. I would also like to say that I welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And the next in the rapporteur's line is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124557	More taxes and more taxes, more taxes and more More taxes and more taxes, more taxes and more I mean, sometimes I feel like I'm in a bad horror edition of this movie, "Groundhog Day" where I have to relive one nightmare after another in my time in this Parliament Hall. And here we are again with taxes, taxes, bans. Does it ever end? Now you want to tax that people want to buy a new house or sell their house. It also has to cost more. Why, then, do people have to move if they need it? They can then stay where they are a re-establishment of the tape will probably be the next thing we are looking at. Then you want to tax gliders because they emit CO 2 Hurra, welcome to tax hell aka Denmark by 2020! Of course, we cannot support this in the new citizens, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124705	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. I don't see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, so the next one is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130124722	One is tempted to say that it was just before Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen got us all up with this fire speech, but that's the way it is. But thank you for the positive reception for some of this proposal. After all, Denmark has a new government, a government that has said that we will give priority to welfare rather than tax relief. That is why this proposal is a proposal which helps to finance the provision of 1,000 new nurses; that we can eliminate the savings that the previous government has imposed on our education with the re-priority contribution; that we can remove the ceiling on education. As far as the re-priority contribution to training is concerned, I can say that if it were to continue this year, as it was last year, it would cost 700 million. kr. in savings on the training courses. But if you want a boost in education, which you also talk so much about the importance of, you have to find the money for it. There are a lot of people on the other side of the midline here who have spent time discussing that. It's hard to find the money, and that's why it's all about here. It is about the parties behind the financial agreement having agreed to index taxes on registration, packaging, pesticides, raw materials and waste water. The purpose of this is to maintain the real value of the tax, if you like, and thus to ensure that taxes are not eroded as prices rise. In order to also take account of the burdens of business, yes, tax rates will then be increased over two laps, they will be increased at three-year intervals instead of annually, in the period 2020-2025. As we heard here, it is true that we are reintroducing the registration fee for aircraft. The tax is therefore returned to the level from before the abolition of the tax and, together with the other initiatives that I started by saying, must contribute to the green transition. Let me conclude by thanking the parties for the support that has been given to this. This makes it possible for us to continue to invest in our education, to continue to invest in the development of our health care, to continue to improve our welfare and to strengthen the green transition. It is the handful of very, very significant issues that lie in the Finance Act agreed upon by the Alternative, SF, Radicals, Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party, and that is a good budget law, which is why the government naturally supports their own proposal; it comes as no surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125029	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125032	I would actually like to ask the tax minister what the great explanation for the fact that a tax is now being imposed on gliders is. Well, it's a plane that is typically used to practice sports in association life in Denmark in, a plane that doesn't have a motor and doesn't emit CO2 So it's not for climate reasons. So why do you think there should now be a registration fee on a glider?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125058	I mean, this isn't an environmental tax, which is what I think Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær just got it talked into. It's a registration fee. I remember that one of the cases that the Danish People's Party, I think one can say when this agreement was made, had the hardest part, was that the tax had to be reduced on these very fine private aircraft. That's what we're rolling back. That's why I think that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær should perhaps try to remember what kind of discussion his own party had. I do not remember that it was the Danish People's Party that fought for the registration tax on aircraft and private aircraft to be reduced. If it was, it's new, I didn't hear that. On the contrary, I heard that it was not appreciated. That's why you should be happy about what the government is doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125143	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125144	Well, that's how you can become the world champion of talking around and not answer the questions asked. I would like to ask you about the legislative proposal before us today, which is a government proposal to reinstate a registration fee on aircraft and which includes the introduction of registration fees on gliders. So I'm just asking, what's the reason for that? Well, there must be some justification for it, that is, something you want to do something about. Typically, it is because you want something that pollutes less, or because you want people to drink less with alcohol or smoke less. I just ask quietly: what is the purpose of putting registration fees on gliders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125218	The government believes that the priority given by the previous government is wrong. We think it was wrong to reduce the charges on private aircraft, including gliders. That is why we have set it up, and we are using the money to strengthen our welfare, to strengthen the education of children and young people. That is the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125233	Thank you, and then there is a brief remark from Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125237	[Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125247	If the registration fee is asked, it is the fixed registration charges that are indexed here. It is they and not, as it were, the total registration fee. It is the fixed charges, that is to say the fee paid, that are indexed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125304	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125307	[Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125318	As I said, this is about the fee that has been locked and that we are now indexing. The percentage of your loan in the registration fee will not be touched.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125330	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200130125346	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 31 January 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
