ParlaMint-DK_20200324120003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324120005	The items listed as No. 1-6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324120031	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324120041	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Ten people are voted at a time. As soon as you have cast your vote, please go to the same side of the House where you have entered, meaning that if you vote on the right side, you step on the right side and vote on the left side, you step on the left side, and this immediately after the vote has taken place. So the vote is now under way. 2, 1. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). In favour of 96 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324120956	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324121020	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. As soon as you have cast your vote, please leave the Chamber on the side on which you have voted. The vote is now under way and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 96 votes (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324121941	The debate is open and the draftsmen of the bill are therefore welcome in the Chamber. The same applies to the Minister. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324122101	Thank you. There is no doubt any longer that this is an extraordinary situation we are in, and many people will be directly or indirectly affected, in one way or another, by the consequences of the corona virus. The bill we are considering today is an expiry of the historic political agreement concluded between the government and all parties of the Folketing on 19 March on a series of initiatives to mitigate the consequences of the coronavirus for Danish economy and Danish jobs and companies. It is both historical and, when we look around the rest of the world, unique that all the parties of the Folketing stand together and jointly take responsibility to lead Denmark through the crisis we are facing in the middle of. A group which is indirectly affected is the many students who supplement the diet with an income from a study job in order to cope with the day and the way. Many people have jobs in the industries that are currently hit hard by decommissioning as a result of the corona crisis. It can be as a waiter at a restaurant or café or as a clerk in a clothing store. Many are employed in loose employment as hourly wages, and when turnover falls, they will be among the first to lose the job. Although most students have their way back on, many are in a situation where they have been financially dependent on the income from the study job, and among other things. due to high rents in large cities, many will find it difficult to adapt to the new economic situation in the short term. That is why it is good and important to have a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that aid from the state should also include the country's many students. The bill gives students the opportunity to receive 2 months of extra su loans per month in March and April, and this means that students can be paid DKK 6.388. extra per month in student loans. Thus, the total monthly loan, which can be paid out in March and April, will be DKK 9.582. Similarly, students who have used all their su-clips and receive final loans will be able to withdraw the amount paid out in final loans from 8.241 DKK. DKK 14,629. monthly in March and April. The increase in the loan facility could be extended by the Minister of Education and Research to apply after April if necessary. The proposal strikes exactly the right balance, ensuring financial security for students, while ensuring that the reimbursement requirement ensures fairness and encourages sound management of funds. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324122333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324122344	In the Left we have emphasized from day one that we are ready to hold hands under Danish society. We are ready to help private companies, large and small, self-employed workers such as employees, freelancers and others. That is why the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, also proposed that we should jointly set up a fund of 300 billion. kr. to help hold hands under Danish society in the current situation. With this proposal, the trip has come to the many thousands of students who are also at risk of being hit by the corona crisis. Like all other people in Denmark, students are of course also concerned; worried about their finances, worried about their exams, their upcoming stays abroad etc. etc. That is a concern I can understand. We live in a country where, fortunately, under normal conditions we know what we can expect and what we can count on, and therefore it is of course also a difficult exercise for all of us to suddenly have to walk on untrampled land. But it is our finest task to do what we can from here to contribute and ensure as much security as possible, including among the students. It is also important for me to take this opportunity to emphasise that the future of students should not fish because of the current situation. The Left is ready for further action which may be necessary in the field of education and research, even if we are better aware of the situation. Whether there is a need for measures on exams, exam forms, assignments, ECTS points, su or other, we are ready to look at it in order to mitigate the consequences that the current closure of the educational institutions may have for students. The bill here follows up the broad political agreement, the covid-19 aid package, and concerns increased su-loans for students and students. Young people and students in higher education may lose their leisure and study jobs as a result of the consequences of the corona crisis. This is why it is proposed to extend the possibility of obtaining student loans so that students will be able to maintain their monthly disposable income, even if they lose their jobs as a result of the crisis and that is good. The draft law will give students the right to receive the equivalent of two-month extra student loans per month in addition to their su-grants and existing su-loans. In addition, there may be dependent loans and increased loans for trainees who receive a parent's income dependent on that is a very good thing. It is proposed that enlargement should also apply to higher education students who have used up their su- clip and receive final loans. As a starting point, the increase in the loan facility will apply to March and April 2020. With the bill it can be extended to the extent that the situation requires it is also good. Against this background, it is proposed that the Minister for Education and Research be authorised to extend the scheme and, of course, I expect that decisions on the possible extension of the scheme will be made on the basis of dialogue with and orientation of the parties of the Folketing. We support the bill. As I said, the Left is ready to discuss any further steps that may be necessary. And further action is needed. In view of the crisis and the need for qualified workers in the health sector, I very much welcome the thousands of students, mainly in health care, who have joined the Corona job banks of the regions. I think that is a good thing, and I think that is an absolutely fantastic social spirit, which I think we should appreciate. That is why the Liberal Group is proposing that, when this proposal is being examined, we should at the same time look at how we can best accommodate these many students in the field of health education. Of course, you will not have to work for free, if I may call it that. It is not fair to punish and say thanks from society to the students by asking them to repay their su. We need them, and that is why the Left is proposing to remove the threshold limit for health students for the next 3-4 months. If it is not possible to target such a hand-out to health students alone, we are proposing a general increase in the amount of the free payment or perhaps even a removal of the free limit in the coming months. I think that is the least we can do from here to acknowledge the efforts of students. In this situation, no one should work for free. And there is much evidence that we will certainly need them all; all those who can make an effort on the health sector will be needed, and we should recognise that. I very much hope that the government and also the parties here in the Folketing will take part in looking at the limits of free amounts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324122952	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123002	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think I just need to clarify something in relation to the concrete new proposal from the Left, which has come to light since the agreement was concluded last week. Is it to be understood that it is an amendment to the bill tabled by the Left or how is it to be understood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123022	Yes, that is quite correct, and that is what I was trying to say. We are, after all, amending the Su Act with the bill here, which means opening the Su Act. And what I have mentioned here on behalf of the Left, I hope that a majority in the Danish Parliament will be able to support in the form of an amendment to the proposed bill. But overall, of course, it's about the Su Act. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123050	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123105	Thank you. It's a very special time we're in right now. There are a lot of groups everywhere in society that need help and support to make everyday life work to survive this transition. This has resulted in a number of aid packages which have been adopted in broad agreement in the Danish Parliament and which we in the Danish People's Party also fully support. Part of it is that there are a lot of students who are becoming insecure at this time. What's going to happen? Are exams going to be as usual? Can I get the lessons I need? How are we supposed to deal with these problems and these times? It is really important, I think, to get the signal from in here that we would certainly like to do so by the Danish People's Party that we are very prepared for pragmatic solutions. That is also what I hear from the Minister. This is also what we talk a lot about in the rapporteur's circle, so it is important that we find solutions that make it best supported as a student in getting through both education and the exams to come, however they may work. The proposal we are discussing right now is about students' finances. It's about giving the opportunity for students who, because of this situation, are losing their student jobs, to get a benefit. And of course they must be helped at the same level as we help all sorts of other groups in society. There are some problems for some groups that we are well aware of. There are some who are in paid internship. Some people aren't even inside the su system. Of course, I have the expectation that there will be work to find solutions for them. If we can make it so that we can get it into this legislation, I don't know. I do not think that one should stop the other. If we can solve it, it's really fine. If we can't, we'll have to do it on the next step. There will be a great many other things that I think we need to deal with in here, in order to ensure that the things that are needed can be done in educational establishments. There is the announcement from the Danish People's Party as well and we have also told the Minister that something is needed to make it possible out there, then come on, and then let's talk about it. Let us make this possible in order to support both the trainees and the educational institutions in doing what is pragmatically possible. The bill we have today supports the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123349	Thank you. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that we are in a rather difficult situation right now. This situation also affects students, of course, and that is why we are here today. With this bill, which is part of the common package that we negotiated and agreed last week, we will help a large part of the students who can experience uncertainty about their income base. I know that it may not be the best thing to take out more loans when you have been used to getting your expenses covered by having a job, and all of a sudden you are forced to find another way to get through it, but it is a very good safety net and a very good opportunity, which we are now giving to all the students; I am very happy about that. There's a group of students who can't get su or su loans. I would also very much like to continue to see whether we can find some good solutions for them. In fact, so far, I think that we in the Danish Parliament can be quite proud of how we have been able to work together to find some good, broad solutions to help those who are being hard hit right now. I am also not sure that we can get everything and all groups fully covered in this law, but I hope that we can continue to work together to find the good solutions. During this period, which has not really been so long, but where we have worked much together, it has been said that we are asphalting while we are driving, and I think that is still needed. I can really understand that there is an uncertainty out there right now about many things for our students. their exams and now we take care of some of it by saying here that there is at least an opportunity to get help financially. It's one of the things we know can be the most stressful to get an uncertainty around, so I'm really glad we're gonna fix that. One last thing I'd like to say from up here is that if there's someone out there with good ideas, I think we're all very open to receiving them. There's no one here, I think, who has the solutions for everything themselves, but we're gonna find them together and get through it well. I would just like to say that, of course, Radicals support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123628	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. So the next rapporteur in the line I can see is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123651	Thank you. It cannot be emphasised enough that this is a special situation we find ourselves in and that it has led to a really great degree of uncertainty for a great many citizens, including students. Therefore, we in the SF are also very happy that we can hold hands under the students and remove one of the uncertainties that characterize their everyday life. It is good that with this change we can give students the opportunity to supplement their su with a higher loan so that they do not have to worry about getting food on the table and paying their rent here for the first one when they no longer have a student job. We have a unique system in Denmark that allows students to get a scholarship while they are reading, and we should appreciate and be grateful for that, and I am also sure that the students are. But the fact is that it is far, by far, most people who can in no way live for their su. Therefore, many students have a student job next to their studies, and thus this crisis affects not only their opportunities to go to school, but also their finances. In SF we are also ready to support the students for a longer period of time if needed. Because even if our society should end up opening up again at the end of April, it does not mean that all students can come back to their normal everyday life. It will not be all students who can return to a student job with the same hours as before covid-19. We are also worried about the groups who have no opportunity to participate in this scheme, that is to say those students who have neither su-clips nor can get final loans and who are parents and in internship with pay, and we would also like to see whether we can find solutions to that. We are also working further to ensure that students who are delayed because of the current situation can make use of the possibility of su-clips corresponding to the delay they are experiencing. Because it should not go beyond the students' ability to complete their education that we are in this extraordinary situation. That is why we also believe that exemption or postponement of drive measures that students will not be able to comply with if they are delayed because of the situation we are in. So we have to work to find the best solutions for the students who get stuck because of the covid-19. So in SF we don't think we're done here either, but we're really happy about this first step and want to be aware of the students who aren't under this scheme. However, we fully support the changes that are being made with this law and are, as I said, ready to take further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123923	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and I am standing here, that it should be Mrs Victoria Velasquez, but it is not. It is Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten who is warmly welcome to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324123943	Thank you. It has been emphasized many times that we as a society are in a very extraordinary situation right now. The Corona virus is raging, and as a whole Parliament has chosen to try to slow it down as much as possible by shutting down parts of Denmark, at least physically. This also applies to our educational institutions, with quite a lot of concern, uncertainty and uncertainty as a result of many students and teachers. On top of that, many students are also experiencing financial uncertainty these days. Several of them get fired from their jobs. It is jobs at the cafe, at the bar, at the store where they supplement their su with an income which guarantees them money for the rent, for the bills and for pasta with ketchup. It is clear that this uncertainty is great now. That is why I am very pleased that a whole group of parties is now united in improving loan opportunities for students. We are broadening the possibilities by the equivalent of two months' extra student loans per month, in addition to the grants that already exist. As has also been pointed out, and I very much agree with that, some groups are missing from this bill. It is the students who have completely run out of su-clips and who cannot take final loans, and it is in particular the students who are in paid internship, for example. those educators who can't take advantage of this loan, even though they're also at home and have bills to pay. That is very worrying, and that is why we are going to raise precisely that problem in committee. And if we do not manage to resolve this in this draft law, I very much hope that later we will be able to work to include those groups as well. Because right now, we risk them falling between two chairs, as they are not included in any aid packages. Finally, I would just like to conclude by congratulating all the students, teachers and institutions out there who really deal with the situation with brave and really nice, even though we know from here that there is enormous uncertainty. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124213	I would like to thank Mrs Mai Villadsen for her speech on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124230	We are running through urgent legislation here in the Danish Parliament these days... one bill after another. We're all trying to figure out how to solve this covid-19 crisis as best we can. The lockdown continues at least three more weeks, until after Easter. Our business and economy are badly affected. Many companies already say that they expect this to be worse than the 2009 financial crisis. It can also have consequences for many of our students who have a student job. In fact, the education sector as such has proved to be incredibly adaptable and is trying to move on in the best possible way. Now we could also read that the whole CBS is doing online exams. This means that students are working hard, and I think that is very good, and I would like to emphasise that here too. But it also means that they must have things linked financially. And precisely when our business community closes and a stop is put in the order book, at least for a time, and the café or restaurant you otherwise worked at cannot take customers, so there are a lot of people who lose just the income they have to get food on the table themselves, when the rent is paid out which is often expensive, at least here in Copenhagen. So, just as there are measures for business, we must of course also help our students. In many ways the consequences are not so severe yet, but precisely in relation to the economics we will try today with this bill to help them. Some students will probably think that it is too small a compensation to only be allowed to borrow more money, although it is cheap. And I understand that when our economy is under pressure. But we think it is better that we spend the money to keep the business community going and thus also the job market for the many students, both here during the study programme, when we hopefully soon get through this crisis, but of course also after the study, so that they can get out and get a good job. Students are on public support, and we do not have unlimited funds with all the aid packages we have to lift now here and get beyond the ramp. And that's why the temporary aid is now going to be extra su loans. We know that it is not all perfect, and there are also some groups that are not caught up in this, but we are going out with an increasingly large network here in our committee and with the minister at the helm and are constantly looking at: where are we going to put in? So what we are doing today is that we help many students by removing an economic concern for them by giving them extra su loans. And we are also looking at the possibility of extending it, and we would like to be consulted on that. That is why we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124533	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124544	Last week, all of the Danish Parliament's parties made an agreement to hold their hands under the Danish business community and mitigate the consequences of the covid-19. That agreement was precisely to ensure that small businesses, businesses, employees, but also students who, unfortunately, are losing their jobs as a result of the corona crisis. And that is why we have to adopt this bill today, which allows students and students to receive the equivalent of two months of extra student loans per month in March and April, in addition to their Su grants and existing student loans. This will enable students and students who depend on another income to cope with the crisis. This, like the other emergency legislation, is temporary, but it must provide support and security at this time that you as a student should not leave home because of the corona crisis. That is why New Citizens are backing this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124657	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124707	Thank you. I am also a health rapporteur, so I am free from the daily figures for admissions and deaths and announce that we support L 144. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124725	Thank you to the rapporteur. In this way, the party rapporteurs have all been given the opportunity to express their views on the draft law, and now it is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124740	Thank you. With this agreement, which was concluded between all the parties of the Danish Parliament on 19 March, I believe that the Danish people's government has once again shown itself on its best side. Because across the differences between us, we have gone together on a package of help, a comprehensive one that will help mitigate some of the very serious consequences of the covid-19 in Danish society. As part of the agreement, we hold hands under the vast majority of students and students who risk losing their leisure and study jobs as a result of the covid-19. We extend the loan option for the large group by up to DKK 6.388. monthly in March and April. This amounts to two months' extra student loans per month, in addition to the su grants and existing su loans. This means that this large group of students will be able to maintain their monthly disposable income even if they lose their jobs as a result of the situation. And we have also agreed that, if necessary, we can extend these measures. The draft law we are discussing today on amending the Su Act translates this initiative into reality. I am proud that together we have agreed on an approach that will reach so many students, and I look forward to the further examination of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124922	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124940	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Orla Hav. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324124959	Thank you. L 145 is about a change in the operation of the Travel Guarantee Fund, and this happens in the shadow of the fact that the whole of Denmark is marked by corona. The Folketing and the government have given a hand in helping us as citizens and societies to get through the epidemic that has developed into a real crisis. It is uplifting to experience the consensus that characterizes the work of securing our society. The government involves the Folketing in a fine way with the proposals put forward, and this is done in great agreement with the entire Folketing. This is also the case with the proposal that we have to take a position on today, namely an amendment to the Travel Guarantee Fund Act, the basic objective of which is to protect travellers from losing their money if an operator does not deliver the goods purchased by customers. In general, it is in situations where a travel agency goes bankrupt and is unable to deliver the travel arrangement paid for by the customer. With the corona crisis, the situation in the travel market has become even more complex. Now it is not only bankruptcies that can prevent a supplier from providing the booked journey, but now it may be due to measures against the coronasmitten, the ban on the stay of many people in the same places, the ban on cross-border travel etc. In this situation, we in the Socialist Group believe that it is wise to extend the protection of citizens from losing money they have paid for a travel arrangement. In other words, we are moving from a situation in which the Travel Guarantee Fund can pay out money only in the event of bankruptcy, to a situation in which it can also pay out before bankruptcy occurs, to protect the interests of citizens and, for that matter, also of travelers, and it also provides money for this change to be financed. One-and-a-half billion. kr. to the Travel Guarantee Fund and to the Fund a set of rules reflecting its extended scope. We call it responsibility and due diligence adapted to the situation Denmark and the whole world are in and hopefully can soon move out of again. Social democracy supports the proposal and thanks for the constructive interaction with the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324125237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324125245	We are in a very serious situation. In a very short time, the Corona virus has changed everyday life in Denmark, yes, throughout the world. It is primarily because of the health consequences in which we have seen an extreme effort to reduce human costs. Emergency legislation has been adopted, health care is on alert, schools and day care centres and educational establishments and museums and restaurants and cafes and hair salons and much, much else is closed. No collections of more than ten people are allowed to limit the infection and, of course, health is at the heart of the situation we find ourselves in. But the crisis also has major economic consequences. We have seen that Danes on holiday abroad were called home. For some it was easier than for others, and there are still some who have not returned to Denmark. In the Left, of course, we expect the authorities to do everything in their power to get all Danes home safely as quickly as possible. A week ago, exactly one week ago, a broad political agreement was reached between the government and all parties of the Folketing on a targeted financial package for the travel industry, and there are, of course, also the general efforts made in that agreement. Since travel out of Denmark was shut down, the travel industry has experienced severe economic pressure. The expectation is that at least one billion will be paid out. kr. to cancelled travels just for a single month. It is clear that if we as a society do not step in with a helping hand, an otherwise healthy industry and healthy businesses risk breaking our necks, and we would risk seeing a series of bankruptcies and thousands of unemployed people. That is why we in the Left support the proposal for a guarantee scheme for the travel industry in the form of a State-guaranteed loan to the Travel Guarantee Fund, which ensures that the Travel Guarantee Fund can also work before travel companies go bankrupt. The aim is to extend the purpose of the Travel Guarantee Fund on a temporary basis to provide compensation for the reimbursement costs of travel companies related to cancelled journeys in connection with Covid-19 during the period from 13 March, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strengthened its travel advice and until 13 April 2020. And it is also with the possibility that travel agents who have already paid out their own money for cancelled travel may be reimbursed the amount of the Travel Guarantee Fund. The loan guaranteed by the State must subsequently be repaid by the companies over a number of years. In this way, consumers will be assured that they will receive the money again for journeys which have been cancelled, as is the case today, if a package travel is cancelled as a result of bankruptcy. The model also ensures that there is a Travel Guarantee Fund on the other side of the crisis. However, I would just like to comment on a few elements which I have been reminded of since the agreement was concluded and since the legislative proposal has seen the light of day. First of all, the temporal demarcation of the system. The law, which I myself referred to, envisages that the scheme should apply from 13 March, but before that date there were areas where the travel advice advised against travelling to. That is why I hope that during the work of the committee we will be able to extend the period so that the compensation scheme will follow the travel instructions that were applicable to certain destinations before 13 March. I would also like to point out that the draft law does not make it very clear how the loans we are talking about are to be repaid, and we will also devote a great deal of effort to this in order to understand what mechanisms are actually being proposed. Some of this lies in the power of the Minister, but of course we will try to get a precise answer to that, so that we can influence what kind of model it is, so that we ensure that it is done in an appropriate way. As I have said, we support the law, which hopefully will be able to hold hands during the travel industry in an extreme situation. In the Left we have said earlier that we are ready to take very far-reaching initiatives to ensure that we in Denmark come as gently through the Corona crisis as possible. Initiatives have been taken in the form of wage compensation. We have made a broad agreement to ensure wage compensation also for self-employed people and for cost recovery for companies experiencing large reductions in turnover. And yesterday we adopted loan guarantees for over 40 billion. kr. on the Financial Committee. The bill we have now is the first sector-specific one, but I do not think it will be the last. For although major initiatives have been taken, unfortunately I do not believe that we are yet in the target position. In the Left, we support a crisis fund of 300 billion. kr., because it takes resolute action to ensure that all of us in Denmark get through the crisis as gently as possible. We are following the situation closely, and if there are industries that have not been caught up in the initiatives so far, the message is clear from the Left, namely that then we are ready to take action. We support the bill with the clear signal that we are ready for further, both general and sector-specific measures, they may prove necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324125755	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324125803	Thank you, President. The draft law, which the government has chosen to present today, is, of course, a logical consequence of the very challenging reports which, among other things, have been outlined by the rapporteurs before me. comes from our entire travel industry. One of the measures we have taken is that last week we said that companies, for example, have lost more than 30%. of their turnover, can get them and the elements to help. But in this particular case, it's an industry that's lost 100 percent. of their turnover from one day to the next, as it were. And on top of the 100 percent. They are then also in the situation that they have a number of refund claims on deposits and on advance payments and partial payments of travel, which means, of course, that the industry is in a more than difficult situation. This affects many thousands of employees and many companies, but of course it also affects a great many Danish consumers, Danish families, who have bought and booked trips in good faith. In order to create the necessary security in relation to the overall situation, this is the only natural decision: to put a political hand over the whole industry. We are helping the industry extraordinaryly and we are helping the many, many thousands of consumers who could also get into a bad situation when they see their funds disappear into thin air. So all in all, as has already been said here from the parliamentary platform, it is due diligence that we now decide what is being proposed here to increase the contributions to the Travel Guarantee Fund and, of course, also ensure that it is the state that is committed to an extraordinary loan. I have chosen to put a number of questions to the Minister about the law, and I have, of course, done so because there are still a number of questions that have not been fully clarified. The rapporteur of the Left made a few comments on this. And this is about companies and, for that matter, consumers too, who have had major challenges with the period before 13 March, and then it is also about the discussion about what will happen afterwards. On top of that, it is worth discussing whether part of this one-and-a-half billion contribution should be an extraordinary grant to the Travel Guarantee Fund, or whether it should be a loan alone, because then we will also have to discuss in principle how the money could then be repaid, and there is, of course, the fact that consumers will be able to pay for it in the end, by putting charges on future journeys. In this context, it is also interesting for us, as politicians and parties which do not participate in the government's negotiations on this, to be on the safe side, in relation to what are some of the grounds and when it is that any repayment of the funds borrowed here could come into force. We think it is right to have that discussion while also deciding what is urgently necessary, and that is what we are doing with this bill. However, I would like to appeal to the Minister of Industry also to address the other concerns and the issues that I have to address, among others. has been sent here in connection with Parliament's first reading. But of course we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill. We think it is common sense that this is imperative and that it is the only right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130153	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130208	Thank you. It is actually a rather boring background that we have here today. But I am really happy that we are here; that we are all doing everything we can to get Denmark as well as possible through this time, including our travel industry. We're doing it right now without a list of facts and without being sure how it's all going to end. But we do it with all the best intentions and hard work across all the parties here in the Folketing, and I think we can be proud of that. The draft law, which is before us today, is part of a larger common package, which we have all been involved in negotiating and agreeing last week. I think we can also be proud of the whole package. I know that there can certainly be gaps in even the best agreements, but with the need for rapid action, I really think this is a good example of how we can all go a long way together when we throw all the ideas on the table. That is why I would also like to say that, of course, we would like to contribute everything we can to further work so that we can ensure our business and our jobs as best we can. In other words, we are very happy to continue to contribute to asphalting as quickly as possible while driving. I am not going to go into the specific legislative proposal in detail. This has already been done very well. But I would just like to point out to the Minister that I have sent a number of questions, including a lack of sunset clause, which I hope the Minister will come back with an answer to as soon as possible. I have actually asked the question because I am simply in doubt as to why this urgent legislative proposal has not made a sunset clause, which is otherwise in the other laws which have been dealt with urgently in connection with the covid-19. If there's a good explanation, it's really, really fine. However, as a starting point, I think it is a good principle that we have a definition of legislation that is adopted when there is no possibility of having it in external consultation and everything is going very quickly, if only to have it re-examined in more normal conditions. If there is a really good reason why this draft law cannot have a sunset clause, I would just call for some sort of evaluation to be made of it, for example. One year, or at least we have the possibility of keeping up with Parliament's work, also because, as some of the previous rapporteurs have pointed out, there are some unresolved issues in this draft law. Having said that, there should be no doubt that I think we are all ready in here to work hard on and do everything we can. So are we. I would just like to say that the Radical Left, of course, supports the bill so that we can keep our hands on the travel industry in an extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130511	Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130520	Thank you. Another aid package has been prepared in a difficult time. Several help packages have been made that hold a strong safety net during our profession, under people on daily allowances and students and many more. This is another deal. This part is an aid package that is basically about compensating travellers who have bought a package trip or put together a journey from a travel provider registered in the Travel Guarantee Fund. It is stated that the travel industry expects refunds on purchased travel of about 1.5 billion. kr., and thereby empties the current wealth of the Travel Guarantee Fund. With a safety net under travel providers, travellers are ensured that they get their money back and that travel providers also exist. However, the director of the Danish Travel Agency Association has quoted: The 1.5 billion. kr. gives an artificial breath a few more weeks, but since the situation continues, this is going to trigger an avalanche of refunds. Even more money will probably be needed for the Travel Guarantee Fund. Already before 13 March, journeys to Austria, Italy and China were cancelled. Quote out. I believe that these are some dilemmas that we should be aware of in the subsequent reading. It is important to stress that this is a temporary solution. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130655	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130704	I would like to use the opportunity first of all to say thank you to all of you and, not least, thank you to the government, because you are prepared to act together and with the seriousness that the situation requires of us. These are some gloomy times that we are in as a society, and in this respect I also believe that even for the very experienced, it is new terrain for you to have to walk. But I actually think that, overall, it has succeeded very well. We have made a great deal of progress, even though we are not quite there yet. We also support this bill in the Enhedslisten. I would perhaps have put more emphasis on consumer safety and the safety of employees, but I am and we are fully satisfied in the Enhedslist that the bill ensures both, although the wording of the text is primarily addressed to travel companies. That's okay, too. What is particularly reassuring is that the bill obliges companies to repay to the Travel Guarantee Fund by means of a wealth-building contribution to ensure the consumer guarantee for the future. Then there are some things that I have some doubts about whether the draft law is missing. It is acting, for example. on the coverage of flights, the flight only scheme, and I hope that, of course, we can also get it covered if you have bought the tickets, but not a single package. But all the things and also some of what I hear you have raised are something that we can take in the committee work. Thank you for now, and take care of yourselves and each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130846	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324130855	Thank you for the floor. We sat on a late Wednesday last week and made a huge help package for the Danish business community. The agreement is currently being dealt with in these days and hours as documents, announcements and specific legislative proposals under various ministries. As soon as we have finished the individual parts, the Company Guide.dk will be updated, and it will then be possible to use the packages. Some have already been set in motion. I mention this because I know that many people are sitting and watching and have a host of questions that we cannot necessarily answer until we have completed the legislative process. I think that much is going too fast, but I also know that many out there think that things are going quite slowly, and in the meeting we are in now we have come to another corner of the agreement, namely strengthening the Travel Guarantee Fund. People are entitled to get their money back, and we secure 1.5 billion. kr. that this can be done, thus helping travel companies to get through this extraordinary crisis. This, of course, is supported by the Conservative People's Party, just as we did at night until Thursday. The bill covers travel from 13 March to 13 April. It is a good thing, but most people remember, as has been pointed out several times from the platform, that many travels to Italy, Austria and China in particular were actually cancelled before then. A number of journeys have also been cancelled after Easter, and thus the proposal will cover only some of the journeys cancelled as a result of the corona virus. We will have to look at this in committee immediately after this meeting, and I have a few questions on that, which are similar with some of those who have been put here from the platform. So I'm gonna spare you for that. Finally, let me very briefly thank everyone in this Chamber and everyone in the Danish Parliament for a constructive approach, in which we do not forget party politics, but where we are just trying to put it aside and focus on the ball in this very difficult time, which is of course nothing less than an economic disaster. Fluks we have dealt with the already agreed packages, so let us move on with the next steps, those that are necessary, what has been forgotten, what has fallen between several chairs, what has come to and what is missing. The Prime Minister said at one point that we are going to make mistakes, and we are also doing so in the case of legislative proposals where things are going as fast as they are here. Let us also focus on what we, regardless of the situation, can keep going in Denmark. For there is no doubt that everything we can keep going will reduce the economic crisis, which has already taken hold. This is at least as important as aid packages, and let us finally look at the projects that can be speeded up and set in motion. I have already noticed that several municipalities are very good at this. We also have a lot of other good ideas in this area. Whether it costs us 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700 or 800 billion. kr., time simply must show. It's too populist right now to throw out a number, because we have no idea. But we know that there are no money trees, and that's why we have to think about every time we have to do some of these things forever. We look forward to continued cooperation. Today we get flybones on some of the many tasks, both in this meeting and in other meetings. Let us move on to the next, because we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131226	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131233	There is no doubt that the travel industry is badly affected. Not only have they lost virtually all their turnover and the order books are empty, but then there is also a demand that citizens should have some of their money back. This makes this industry extraordinarily hard hit, and there we have an obligation in this Parliament to help. That is why, of course, we support the agreement that we reached at night here last week. It is also important for us in New Citizens that this is a loan and not a general grant. Yes, it may be that some journeys will be more expensive, depending on how the loan is to be repaid, but if it is just a general grant, the bill will still land with the citizens, just with all the taxpayers. So we want to stick to the fact that this is going to be a loan, and then we have to negotiate under what conditions these loans are going to be repaid by the industry. But we think that is a sensible approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131337	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131341	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we also support the bill. This is part of the agreement reached last week, and with the initiatives we are helping to ensure that the travelling consumers who have been cancelled some travel can recover their expenses. We are also giving much-needed help to a pressured aviation industry, while at the same time it is loan-based and not subsidy-based, as the New Citizens' rapporteur mentioned. So that is fair, sensible and balanced, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131413	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and the next person to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324131422	Thank you very much, and thank you for the good treatment that this bill has received. At a time like the one we are in now, it is important that we stand together across parties and take the necessary steps and make the necessary steps to bring Denmark as well as possible through the corona situation as we are in. Today, we have dealt with a legislative proposal as a matter of urgency, which translates one of the initiatives into our joint aid package for the Danish economy from 19 March 2020. The Corona virus has brought us all into a very special and extraordinary situation as a society, and among the many negative consequences that result, the situation has serious economic consequences for large parts of Danish business. Some industries have already been very hard hit, and this is the case, among other things. travel business. There has already been a large drop in sales of travel while many journeys have been cancelled as a result of the current corona situation. And with the travel industry's obligation to pay the money back to customers at cancellations, the industry is faced with very large refund claims. The government has already taken a number of steps which will also help the travel industry, for example. the government, together with the social partners, has established the possibility for employers to receive wage compensation if they choose to repatriate employees with full pay instead of dismissing them. Most recently, we have made a temporary compensation for companies' fixed costs targeted industries with companies with a large fall in turnover. These are also measures that will benefit the travel industry. At the same time, however, it is the assessment that further action is needed, which we all supported just a week ago. Firstly, the legislative proposal before us today proposes extending the scope of the Travel Guarantee Fund. This means that the Travel Guarantee Fund can repay consumers for package travel cancelled as a result of exceptional situations, for example. the current situation of cancelled and cancelled travel due to corona. This should help to prevent some of the bankruptcies that may otherwise arise in the wake of the repayment claims faced by the industry in such exceptional situations. The scheme applies only to package travel cancelled by travel providers or cancelled by customers as a result of exceptional circumstances. The proposal provides a legal basis for the Minister of Industry to initiate the scheme if exceptional circumstances such as those we are currently in are necessary. I will initiate the system for the period from 13 March up to and including 13 April, by way of confirmation of the law, with suspension in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel instructions. Secondly, the bill provides that the Travel Guarantee Fund will be granted a State guarantee of up to 1.5 billion. kr., and this is because there is not enough wealth in the Travel Guarantee Fund to cover the new liabilities. The measures therefore provide for an immediate injection of capital into the travel industry, which is in urgent need of liquidity. The State guarantee implies that the State guarantees the obligations that the Travel Guarantee Fund will have under the proposed scheme. As the Travel Guarantee Fund needs funds under the proposed scheme, the Fund can draw on the guarantee. This is a state loan which has to be repaid by the industry itself over a number of years. For the reimbursement of the amount paid under the State guarantee, a new property-building contribution is introduced, as several have mentioned, to be paid by the registered travel service providers to the Travel Guarantee Fund. There are several rapporteurs who have asked about the balances in it, and it is in this way that it is the Board of the Travel Guarantee Fund that proposes a rate which takes into account the necessary balances, and then it is formally the Minister of Industry who sets the rate. It was about the questions that came, about how we secure the right balance so that we have taken into account the building up of the wealth, but do not do it faster than that people hopefully can also keep up with the industry. It is a collective refund, so everyone in the industry contributes to our being able to hold hands under the Danish travel industry and thus also Danish jobs. A safeguard has been put in place to ensure that a refund claim can be evaded by registering in another guarantee scheme in another country, so that this should be controlled. In relation to the further process, the government wishes to have as early an entry into force as the parliamentary procedure and possible state aid approval allow, and therefore it is also apparent that the Minister of Industry sets the date for the entry into force of the law and that it is confirmed by a decree in the Official Gazette. So these were supposed to be my initial considerations. I have tried to reply a little to what I heard the Left and the Danish People's Party travel about how to repay. After all, we envisage a number of years of repayment, and it is done in the same way as has been known by wealth-building contributions, namely that a percentage of the individual travel agents of foreign tour operators' turnover is fixed, that is to say, a percentage of turnover, and that must then be something that is approved by the Minister. It's something you've known before in the business. And with the bill, we propose that it is the Board of Directors of the Travel Guarantee Fund that should ensure that this rate also has the right balance between the repayment period for the loan and the financial position of travel providers, as mentioned above, in relation to the fact that we also want to ensure that there is an efficient travel industry in Denmark, so that they are taken into account for the reimbursement. Then the SF's rapporteur, as I think it was, mentioned what has been going on here, with how long it lasts, and that the industry also has other problems, and nobody knows at this point how long the whole world is in orange in the travel guides, but I think it belongs to history, and I also tried to say in my speech that there are other arrangements to look into for this industry too. So, in addition to the scheme we are making with the Travel Guarantee Fund, there is also the wage compensation scheme, which will certainly be a useful system for benefits and perhaps even large parts of the industry here, and then there is the new system of subsidies to cover the fixed costs if there are industries that are particularly hard hit. It's just to say that what we're doing today isn't alone. We have, of course, together here in the Danish Parliament made a very broad and comprehensive package to keep our hands under this industry, as well as our companies and jobs in general. Otherwise, I just want to say thank you very much for the positive treatment. It is true, as both the Radicals and the Conservatives said, that things are moving fast and there will certainly also be nuances that we can discuss. We are very happy to do so in committee, and we are ready in the starting box to answer all the questions that come in to us, and then I hope that we can jointly ensure that the law can enter into force as soon as possible so that it can work for the benefit of the travel industry and the many Danes who benefit from it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132314	Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment, so we thank the Minister for Industry. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132331	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132350	Thank you. The bill we are now considering first is an expiry of the historic political agreement concluded between the government and all parties of the Folketing on 19 March on a series of initiatives to mitigate the consequences of the coronavirus for Danish economy, Danish jobs and Danish companies. It is both historical and, when we are scouting around the world in this time, also quite unique that all the parties of the Folketing stand together and jointly take responsibility to lead Denmark through the crisis we are facing in the middle of. And this is absolutely crucial if we are to be able to hold hands under Danish employees and Danish companies in a difficult time. The political agreement and the bill we are discussing here are about ensuring security and fairness for our benefit recipients. In practical terms, this would mean that persons receiving daily allowances during the period 1 March to 31 May would not be able to consume their daily allowance rights. The three months become a so-called death period which does not count in the calculation of the unemployment benefit for the unemployed person. The differences that exist every day in this Chamber about how many and what demands are to be made on the unemployed are well known in relation to where it is precisely believed that the balance between control and trust and freedom and demands exists. However, in the quite extraordinary situation we are in now, we agree across parties and old-fashioned disagreements that at a time when many companies are crashing, sending employees home or perhaps even resorting to layoffs, we cannot reasonably expect the unemployed to find work. With the political agreement reached on Thursday, large bills will be printed to hold hands under Danish companies and jobs. This is being done with good reason, and it is for everyone's benefit. And that is why it is still good and reasonable that we should also give a hand to those who are outside the labour market and are now getting even harder to talk about it. Because it is not the fault of the individual unemployed that the economy is diving, and that is why it is also the community that must take responsibility and that must distribute the bill fairly so that it does not end up with the unemployed. With those words, I must say that the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132607	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132618	Thank you. We might as well say it as it is: Denmark is in crisis, the world is in crisis. Just a few weeks ago, the Danish labour market was in top shape, with record employment, at full speed. Now we have a standstill and a firing wave that has washed over the Danish economy. 22,800 people volunteered last week, and yesterday it was another 5,908. That's almost four times as many as normal. And since 9 March, nearly 40,000 Danes have joined the unemployment queue. The figures simply emphasise that this is a very serious and difficult situation for the whole of Denmark. Losing one's job is serious for the individual, for the family and for all of us. But the Left is willing to do whatever it takes to ensure that the least possible people lose their jobs. That is why I am also pleased with the agreement on a help package for the Danish economy that we jointly made last week. The Left had proposed a crisis fund of 300 billion. DKK, and we ended up handshaking each other to spend a three-digit billion to hold hands under Denmark and under the Danish families. A great praise must be given to all parties. The aid package includes, among other things: pay compensation for private employees, and I am extremely pleased to see that many companies have welcomed the help and that, instead of being dismissed, people have been organised in division of labour or repatriation, such as: Copenhagen Airport and Bestseller have done. Unfortunately, however, we do not avoid people losing their jobs. And that is why we take care of the people who are on the edge of the Danish labour market, namely the job seekers. When large parts of Denmark are closed down to and with Easter, the consequence is that you do not have an earthly chance of being active job seekers and being available for the labour market for a period of time. It is therefore appropriate that we give benefit recipients three months on top of that, simply on the understanding that there are no jobs to look for, as the situation now stands. We in the Left are also very pleased that we have had a suspension of G-days until 31 May. This is something we mentioned early as a good idea. We would like this to be a general suspension and not just the use of repatriation and division of labour by companies. The Left supports the draft law and we will enter into the committee's work in the next few days with the comments that have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132927	Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324132942	Thank you for that, President. This bill, as has been said, is a bill that ensures that if you lose your job here during the corona crisis, the crisis that will kill a great many companies if you do not make an assistance effort, you get 3 months extra on the daily allowance, which means that there are 3 months that do not count on the daily allowance. This also means that if someone is about to lose the benefit now, they get 3 months extra, and if they are in the middle of a period, they don't count. And you still have a right to cash benefits for two years. This also means that if you have been so unlucky as to lose unemployment benefit only in March, you can be re-registered in an unemployment insurance fund and be entitled to benefit for an additional three months in this respect. That is really good, because it can help many people, so that they are not just thrown out after spending the benefit period more quickly than they expected, because you are in the situation that it can be difficult to get a job right now during the crisis. However, it should be borne in mind that some companies still have to fill jobs, and that is why, of course, the cashiers and job centres must also be ready to help the companies that are standing and lacking some qualified employees, and they may be able to use some of those who are being sent out into unemployment at the present time. It'll always be good. But we must also be clear when the three months or the crisis is over to see what action is then to be taken. I think that will be the next step for the Minister for Employment, namely to see whether, when the crisis is over, we will have to make additional efforts to get people back into jobs. And I can see that the Minister is nodding, so we look forward to looking at how we can support those workers who have lost their jobs and how we can support the companies that have got stuck here during the crisis when we have to have it all rebuilt. It will certainly be a project which the Danish People's Party wholeheartedly supports, and I think all the parties will do so. Because we need to get Denmark back on its feet, get companies up and work again. So it has a little to do with how we will then get the right effort done after the help that both companies and employees should have, so that everything will run again. It is also a good thing that the G-days were included in the first days of unemployment during this period here. That is fine, and it is also an addition to supporting companies and employees in this regard. All in all, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal, but of course we look forward to it afterwards, i.e. how it will work, because I think that there will still be many people who are in doubt about how they should behave in this connection, how they will make sure that they get the help, and the best answer to it is enough that they contact their cashier to hear how they have been put forward in the future during the period that we are going into now. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133320	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move forward in the rapporteur's report to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133326	Thank you. We are at a time when much, indeed everything, is being paused, and that also applies to society's active efforts to get the unemployed into employment. At the same time, the availability obligation of the unemployed has also been paused, and it is in the knowledge that there are not very many jobs to apply right now. Preserved, there are still job postings, but many companies have turned on the auto-answer, so even if you had to apply for a job, there is only a bunch of applications on the other side of the corona crisis, understandably. That is why the Radical Left wholeheartedly supports this bill, which freezes the benefit period for three months. That is to say, the period from 1 March to 31 May does not count, and that gives our unemployed peace of mind. At the same time, the G-days are suspended in connection with work distributions and repatriation, and this also makes very good sense. But not everything has been done with this either. We have, for example. also a group of citizens covered by the 225-hour rule. They must meet a working requirement of 225 hours in the last 12 months, and we should also pause their count. This is relevant to those who are now unemployed and who have received cash benefits, integration benefits or educational assistance for 1 year out of the last 3 years, and it is also relevant to those who are currently affected by the 225-hour rule, but, like the unemployed, they find it difficult to find work. For these citizens, a death period of 3 months will also give peace of mind. But in the first place, I can tell you that the Radical Left supports the bill here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133527	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133534	Everyone has to go, including the unemployed. And more than ever, there is a need for security, and I guess there are few things that create more insecurity than losing your income. First, the individual is hit by the bill and dramatically reduces the income of an ordinary employee by about 50 per cent. Then, every four months, when a penalty is imposed, one day's benefit disappears, but the cost does not. If you do not succeed in dusting up a job, the benefit ends completely after 2 years, and the next stop is cash assistance, if you can get it at all. Society is put on low flares, and getting a job is very difficult. The state is reaching out to businesses, both large and small, and this is necessary to protect the jobs of the future. Today we must make life a little easier for the unemployed. The fear of being without income must be kept a little at a distance. That is why it is a good idea to extend the benefit period, and of course SF supports the bill, but we are not in the goal yet. With this law, the Folketing recognizes that it is very, very difficult to find a new job at the moment, and the logical consequence should therefore be to postpone the first day of business also by 3 months, otherwise neither attitudes nor legislation is coherent. So when do we see that proposal from the Minister? The same consequence must therefore apply to the 225-hour rule for cash benefits recipients and beneficiaries of integration benefits. We'll extend for the unemployed. Job centers are almost shut down. In other words, punishing the recipients of cash benefits in this situation is quite an uproar. When do we see a proposal that takes care of these people? We also need to move on the daily allowance rate. 3F and other federations propose a corona supplement which will raise the rate by one third. In other words, in relation to the employees who are being sent home in companies with full pay against financial support to the company, and with the massive support for the self-employed in all sizes, it is actually a rather modest proposal from 3F. Exactly a year ago, virtually, the SF had in this Chamber a resolution which would mean 25%. more in the first 2 months of unemployment. It would be very nice to see many homes at the moment if that proposal had been adopted, but unfortunately it did not. Whether it should be 3F's proposal, or it should be SF's model, we can always discuss. There are differences between them, but the aim is the same. On the other hand, what we cannot discuss is that the daily allowance rate is simply too low. Security is needed for the unemployed, for the recipients of cash aid and for all the people out there who fear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133901	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324133907	Thank you. In times of crisis, the Community must show that everyone experiences security, including financial security for the unemployed. The Corona crisis has an extra severe impact on the unemployed, who have the most difficulty finding jobs. They have now come even further behind the queue and are likely to look far after job openings for a long time to come. That is why it is important that we step in now with help, and of course Enhedslisten supports this bill. The law helps the unemployed in several ways, and I am very pleased that the Folketing is united behind the initiatives, because this is not usually the case when it comes to helping the unemployed. The extension of the three-month benefit period itself is extremely important, both because the unemployed are unable to find a job right now and will therefore be penalised unfairly if they lose the benefit, but also because one out of three of those who fall out of the benefit system ends up completely out of support because of the cash benefits system's set-off rules on spouse-dependent assets and pensions. It is important for there to be a three-month break on the length of service for the benefit, and when you talk about a dead period, it also applies to the reference period. This also applies to the supplementary allowance. This will ensure that the Corona crisis does not further burden those workers who already need our unemployment benefit system most, because their employment is short or temporary, as it does, for example. is the case in the construction industry. It is also clear that every four months the carnage period is unfair and must be put out of effect during the period and let me just add that it has always been unfair. So let's get rid of it in the long run. The Enhedslisten also welcomes the possibility that there is a window so that you can re-enter the a-box if you resign because you couldn't get help anyway. The G-days shall be suspended during the period. It is another crisis measure and a hand in hand with the employers that we can support. Let me end with two things. Firstly, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten would like to sign for 3F's proposal that there should be a special corona supplement to the daily allowance. For years, the coverage of the daily allowance has been decreasing, and for many, the daily allowance does not even cover half of the wage. That is why we have also called on the government to call for negotiations on a corona allowance on the daily allowance. Secondly, I would like to mention that we are aware that 20%. of all new entrants of the approx. 30,000 registered since this started, do not have the right to cash benefits and therefore apply for cash benefits. Of them, many still have no income right now, despite our aid packages. This applies particularly to all employees with loose jobs, zero-hour contracts, part-time work, etc. They also need help. And there is also a need for help in relation to our cash assistance system, and we need to see if we can find a new cash assistance solution, including for Corona victims, in the form of cash benefits without any set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134217	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134226	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is shut down in many ways. This has a major impact on our businesses, on our cultural life and on tourism, which is so badly affected. The Corona crisis is one of the biggest threats to Denmark in recent times. It has created a very serious situation for us Danes, for Danish business and for the labour market. Almost 40,000 new entrants to the unemployed are dramatic developments in unemployment. At the same time, Danish Industry has come up with an analysis pointing to a fall in GDP of 6,7 per cent. This amounts to 155 billion. kr. in lost wealth. If that happens, we are talking about a greater economic downturn than during the financial crisis. Even with the agreement on a comprehensive package of aid and compensation for wages, we must constantly look at whether further action is needed. We must take all necessary steps to bring Danish companies and jobs as best as possible through the covid-19 epidemic. The Corona crisis is also of great importance for those benefit recipients who are likely to lose their daily allowance. They may have difficulty finding jobs when many companies consider withdrawing employees rather than hiring. Several unemployed people are insecurities in families. It has a meaning when you do not know if you have a job tomorrow or perhaps have already been dismissed. The draft law we are discussing today aims to pause unemployment benefit for the unemployed until 31 May 2020. This means that the period from 1 March to 31 May 2020 will not count on the unemployment benefit of the unemployed person. The benefit recipient is therefore entitled to benefit for up to 3 months longer. It is proposed that employers' payment of the daily allowance from the first and second day of unemployment G-days, as it is called "temporary', should be suspended for members of an unemployment fund who will be covered by a work distribution or repatriation from the entry into force of the law until 31 May 2020. A temporary suspension of G-days by division of labour and repatriation will make the administration in the A-boxes considerably simpler. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the proposal. Ideally, however, we would like the proposal to include all companies and to make the proposal permanent. We in the Conservative People's Party have long held the view that G-days should be abolished in general and worked for it. Having said that, we recognise that Denmark is in an emergency situation where it is essential to find broad political compromises that hold hands under the economy. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134512	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134519	It is clear that when a large agreement is reached which is so comprehensive, all parties must be able to see themselves in the agreement. And the benefit issue is often a matter that divides the parties in the Parliamentary Chamber. But this is an extraordinary situation that we are in, and in New Citizens we would like to take part in taking responsibility in such a situation. For this reason, we also felt it was reasonable that those who could have used up their benefit period here in three months' time could have an extension, that is to say a dead period. I would also have liked to see a look at whether there should have been such a smooth transition, because it is also the case that the people who become unemployed now or in a month's time actually have an extension of their benefit period, i.e. a longer period of unemployment benefit. And there you just have to be aware that it is also poison for the Danish economy when we get out on the other side, because there we should like people to work again. At present, we do not know whether this corona crisis is a short-term economic crisis. It is steep, it is extreme, but it may also prove to be short-term. We do not yet know whether it sets itself as a general recession when we look into Q3 and Q4 and into the new year. And that is why we also hope that we are willing to look at whether we need to change this again if we can see that the economy is also changing and the boilers are getting going again and we need people to come out and work again. But as the bill stands, we support it. And we will also be able to support a proposal to completely eliminate these so-called G-days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134709	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I do not see the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance... Lars Boje Mathisen is just getting the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134722	Thank you. I should remember saying that the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134728	Thank you. Then we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324134734	Thank you for the floor, President. Last night, I had a longer interview with an American journalist who, like me, wanted to be smarter about a number of the actions we have taken in a Danish context in order to tackle the economic consequences that both companies and employees are experiencing as a result of the corona crisis. And one of the things I highlighted in this connection was how unusually fast, how unusually determined and how unusual, what can be said, condensed a whole Danish Parliament had responded to a number of these challenges. The bill we are discussing today is, of course, directly in line with the agreement that all the parties of the Danish Parliament made and participated in a late evening, rather nighttime in the Ministry of Finance last week. And that in itself is an impressive story to a journalist from a country in which not only once but twice you have not been able to agree in the parliamentary assembly on what form the aid packages should take and how and how quickly you could move, and most of all what they are for some initiatives. In fact, a large number of very far-reaching and, I believe, very effective initiatives were taken in the late night hour in the Ministry of Finance. That is why I would like to thank you for the way in which this draft law has been dealt with in the Chamber today. As you all know, we are in an extraordinary situation which requires extraordinary action. In a very short time, the Danish Parliament's parties have agreed on a large number of measures to ensure Danish economy and Danish jobs. One of these measures is to pause the consumption of daily allowances for 3 months. The outbreak of the covid-19 means that Denmark is shut down in many ways. This is of great importance to all benefit recipients, not least those who are likely to lose their daily allowance. And it is a difficult time, as several rapporteurs here also mention, to be in search of a new job. With the bill, we are holding hands under all benefit recipients, including persons on supplementary daily allowances. For the next three months, we'll pause the daily allowance. This means that when we reach 31 May, we have the same daily allowances as we do today. The bill also covers those persons who have exhausted their benefit rights from 1 March 2020 and who may have already resigned from their insurance fund. They shall have the possibility to re-register and obtain the right to daily subsistence allowance until 31 May 2020. We have also chosen to do so, and that is my answer to it, sir. Karsten Hønge mentioned in his rapporteur's speech that, due to lack of employment, carnage days are placed on standby during the period. At an extraordinary time like this, when the labour market is virtually shut down, carnage makes no sense. As I wrote to you this weekend, we have changed the period during which the daily allowance is paused, so it follows the whole calendar months from 1 March 2020 up to and including 31 May 2020. The decision is linked to the fact that the chosen period of the agreement, namely 9 March to 9 June, is administratively difficult for the cashiers, as the daily allowance is calculated and paid for months. Thank you for your support to change the period. This means that the cashiers can spend as much time as possible helping their members at this time. The Government will suspend the employer's payment of the allowance, the so-called G-days, to employees who are subject to a division of labour or have been repatriated. This will make the administration in the A-boxes more simple in a time of many work distributions and repatriations. At the same time, companies are better placed economically as well as administratively. We owe it to the many benefit recipients who are in an uncertain situation that this is going fast. That is why we are also calling for the legislative proposal to be second- and third-reading as early as Thursday, 26 March, and coming into force immediately thereafter, on 27 March. I would also like to stress that this is one of many initiatives taken to remedy the negative effects of the crisis. We have also introduced wage compensation and compensation for the fixed costs of the most affected companies. We do this to ensure the work and livelihood of the Danes and thus to avoid redundancies. Later today, we will also have to deal first with a proposal for temporary extension of sickness benefit, so that no sickness benefit recipients will be transferred to job clearance in the near future. I have no doubt that with these measures we will create greater security for both employees and benefit recipients in Denmark in an insecure situation. A great deal of money has been spent on many initiatives and aid packages... historically a lot of money. The initiatives now need time to work. However, we are in a situation that is constantly changing and therefore the government is following developments closely. I look forward to the further discussion on Thursday, and once again thank all the parties of the Folketing for taking responsibility and united in this difficult time for our country. We owe it to the Danes, and we owe it to Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135251	Thank you. And there is just one brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135255	It's a good thing you pause the cart day for these three months. It could just be missing something else. But the interesting thing is why you do not take the step and suspend it for three months. Because I have to ask the Minister: if I have understood correctly what is now going on, that if you were to be hit by a coach's day, let us say in the first week of March, it will be suspended, but you will be hit by it in the first week of June? Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135327	So, with all sorts of reservations, and I think I have to check it out and perhaps leave that reply in writing to Mr. Karsten Hønge, my immediate answer to that question will be: Yes, it will be the case, as I myself read and understand the text of the law. But I would also like to reserve the right to send a written reply to Mr. Karsten Hønge on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135344	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135345	I think that both the Minister and I read the papers in the same way and, of course, I would always like a letter from the Minister. But I would rather have a letter from the Minister saying not only that this is what is happening, but that the Minister is postponing it for three months. Because that must be the only reasonable thing. The situation of these people who are unemployed and who were about to get a stupid ticket in the first week of March and who are postponing the fine by three months is such that in the three months it has been virtually impossible to get a job. That is why the only reasonable conclusion must be that we suspend it for three months, otherwise it will be moved forward. That is the letter I would like from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135417	I think, as I said before, that I should check whether this is a postponement or a suspension. What I would also like to say is that the approach to many of the financial aid packages made by the government, together with the parties of the Folketing and with the social partners, to mitigate the consequences of the partial closure of Denmark, and of the way in which the corona crisis not only sits in our economy, but also in the economies around us, has been as offensive as possible. And it is with the aim of trying to achieve that the economic landing should be softer than we are likely to see in a large number of countries around us, so that people can also get back to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135503	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135505	Thank you for that, and thank you for being able to try to help Denmark in the best way possible in this serious situation. My question concerns the suspension of G-days. I mentioned almost 14 days ago that it was a possibility to suspend the G-days, i.e. the payment made by employers in the event of dismissal. Here in the draft law, it is now planned to do so by division of labour or repatriation. We in the Left would like to see, what should we say, generally suspend the G-days until 31 May, because that is where we might think it would be reasonable to take the suspension of G-days as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135613	This is a political point of view which I respect and also acknowledge for the fact that the Left has put forward all the way through. I just think we should say a few words about why we have been suspended here at the last minute and, I admit, have been suspended by G-days in terms of work distribution and repatriations. After all, our constant focus has been on helping companies avoid redundancies. That is why we have made the wage compensation arrangements, both those resulting from the tripartite agreement and those resulting from the political agreement. As we see it, if we then suspended the payment of G-days by companies in the event of redundancies, it could increase the incentive, at least for some, to use redundancies rather than to use the other options, so as to avoid redundancies. That is why the proposal is aimed at a very special problem in the distribution of labour and repatriation, because here a company cannot avoid paying G-days due to force majeure due to covid-19, for example. in the event of cessation or closure of business. And it provides a lot of extra administration, which would partly have made it difficult to make use of the schemes here, and also, in a way, cost it to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135733	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135735	Thank you. I understand that, but there may be companies that have to resort to layoffs. Actually, I think they go really, really far to avoid layoffs. We hear that in the stories we are told, that is to say that companies and business owners are going very far to avoid redundancies in this situation. But it may be that there are some places where, unfortunately, if you are to survive as a company, you have to resort to redundancies if you cannot stay within the rules that have been made, about compensation and repatriation. There we find that a general suspension could be a helping hand, and that is why we still think the proposal is a good one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135819	I respect the fact that the Left has that view, and I believe that Mr. Hans Andersen is absolutely right that the vast majority of companies both want to avoid layoffs and try to do everything they can to avoid layoffs. I don't doubt that for a second. The government's focus is on in the schemes that are made, so to speak, to try to make the incentives as large as possible for companies to choose to maintain their association with their employees and keep them on payrolls so that they are ready to tackle the reins they escaped when the health crisis has settled at some point in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135901	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135918	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324135934	Thank you. The bill that we are now dealing with first is, after all, like the previous draft law, an expiry of the political agreement of last week between all the parties of the Folketing, which contains a number of initiatives to hold hands under Danish economy and mitigate the consequences of the corona virus. This bill extends the entitlement to sickness benefit for three months for persons who, from 9 March until 9 June 2020 onwards, have received sickness benefit for more than 22 weeks during the 9 previous calendar months, i.e. persons who reach the time of re-evaluation. In addition, the bill provides for a temporary extension of the entitlement to sickness benefit for persons whose sickness benefit ends at the end of an extension from 9 March to 9 June. When the Prime Minister closed down a large part of the public sector almost 14 days ago, this meant, among other things, that much of the work of the job centres was suspended and, together with the necessary priorities in the health services, it makes it difficult to follow up the individual citizen's medical needs. So without the bill we are now considering, many citizens would be at risk of getting into a difficult situation when their sickness benefit period expired. At the same time, it is precisely on issues such as this that we really have tested and tested how strong our social model and how strong our community is whether we ourselves are in a time of crisis, where expenditure is queuing and there are many who are shouting loudly, also remembering the weakest and remembering them without a large microphone. With the political agreement last week, of which this bill is an offshoot, all the political parties in the Danish Parliament show that our social model and community can stand that distance. With broad political support, we show that we will not allow those who are outside the labour market due to illness to sail their own seas in a time of crisis. With those words, I must say that the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140146	We are facing a historic crisis in Denmark and an extension of the Prime Minister's closure of large parts of Danish society to after Easter. We can only support this and the health of the Danes always comes first, but in the Left we are also ready to do everything we can to mitigate the negative consequences that the spread of covid-19 already has and will be able to have for all of us. The closure of Denmark has led to numerous consequences for the performance of daily life in the Denmark we know so well. Among other things, it has. In addition, it is important to ensure that there is a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers in the workplace, and that there is a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers in the workplace. One of the more vulnerable groups in our society is the Danes, who are part of the sickness insurance system. It can be really difficult to initiate follow-up and have the citizen medically clarified during this period, and so with this bill we ensure that the Danes who receive sickness benefit, both those who are facing a review and those who are about to be transferred to the job clearance process with resource progression benefit, are granted an extension of their entitlement to sickness benefit. In fact, we think this is a very good solution, in which we calm down the life situation of some of the citizens who are already in a very vulnerable position at this time. Against this background, we in the Left will announce that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140354	Thank you for that, President. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party are very keen to ensure both companies and employees that they can move forward and get out of the corona crisis in a good way. We also know that it can be difficult to make sure that we get everyone with us, and that is why, of course, I would also like to say that if anyone feels that they have gotten into a mess, it must be obvious that they are just sending an email to the minister. Of course, as rapporteurs, we can also pass it on to the Minister, but the call is to write it directly to the Ministry and then see how it goes. This proposal is a temporary extension of sickness benefit, which should be seen in the context of the previous proposal to extend the benefit period by three months. We do the same here with sickness benefit, so you have 3 months' extra sickness benefit so you don't get into trouble. This means that no one, even if they run in the 22 weeks, should be able to get into a job clearance course. They will continue on sickness benefit for another three months in this respect. And that's really good, 'cause somebody always gets in trouble. This also applies to those who have already received an extension of their sickness benefit. Thus, during the three-month period from 9 March to 9 June, you cannot go into a job clearance or a resource progression if you are on sickness benefit. It is very good, so you have a little extra time to get well in this regard, and so you are ready to, when you get out of this situation, hopefully return to the labour market after the end of illness. I think that there has generally been good cooperation between the parties of the Folketing. We have all agreed that we must solve this in the best possible way, and the Danish People's Party supports 100 percent. And it was gratifying that the government started to take all the parties into it. It took just a few days before it found out that it was best to bring all the parties into the negotiations on how to secure Denmark, but it is now happening, and that is why it is all the parties in the Folketing who are behind us that we must get Denmark out of the crisis in the best possible and fastest way, so that we can move forward without the major problems afterwards. However, I still think that the Minister should be aware of this if there are any enquiries from those who feel in a jam and be ready to see whether it is possible to help those who have not just come under the various legislations. It can be difficult to pick everyone up, and I don't think it can be done either. But there may of course be some who have been unduly caught up and where perhaps the Minister will be prepared to look at it. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140727	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140734	Thank you for the floor. This bill, L 143, will extend the right to sickness benefit for a period of three months from 9 March to 9 June. And the right to sickness benefit is also extended for those whose entitlement ends at the end of an extension rule during this three-month period. This isn't the time for job clearance. Radical Left backs the bill so that our citizens too can enjoy peace of mind on sickness benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140815	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140821	I have a good acquaintance who is currently going home for sickness benefit and waiting to be clarified and move on. So surgery or rehabilitation, and what else may be in it, is not such an emergency in health, but it is absolutely essential for him to be able to return to work. The treatment in his situation is thus put on standby, but he managed to feel the coldness of life on an income well below the level of sickness benefit and well below a third of the wage income he had until quite a few months ago. With this bill, he gets a little bit of air and a little less worry. It is good for him and for everyone else who is at risk of getting out of the sickness insurance system. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140918	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324140928	Thank you. In these times, everyone needs security and the strong safety net of the community. Some of those who are most at risk in these times are those who are ill and who were already before the corono crisis were reported sick. They have seen with increasing concern that the time for the end of their sickness benefit approached without any new opportunities to move forward. You are now given a temporary helping hand when the 22-week limit on sickness benefit is postponed for three months. The Enhedslisten, of course, fully agrees with that is necessary. In parentheses, it was at our request that the matter was raised. That is why we welcome the fact that a united Parliament supports this. We also look forward to the understanding of the situation of the sick may help to address the fundamental problem of the duration limitation in sickness benefits when the corona crisis is over, because the real problem of the sick is that they do not get more well by not being transferred to another benefit or losing entirely the dependency base, as is the case for many today. But right now we need to create greater security for everyone, and this bill contributes to it, so it has Enhedslisten's full support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141040	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. This is Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141049	Thank you. There is no doubt that urgent aid is needed for the economy and for those affected if we are to mitigate the worst economic consequences of the fight against the corona epidemic. The draft law we are discussing today is intended to mitigate some of the consequences of decommissioning for the beneficiaries of sickness benefit. The proposal extends the entitlement to sickness benefit for a period of three months for persons who have received sickness benefit for more than 22 weeks during the previous nine months from 9 March to 9 June 2020, i.e.: persons who reach the time of re-evaluation. In addition, entitlement to sickness benefit is temporarily extended for persons whose sickness benefit ends at the end of an extension from 9 March to 9 June. The time is not for job clearance, but for the security of these people who are affected. The Conservative People's Party supports the extension of the benefit period for sickness benefit recipients. This should be seen in the light of the fact that it may be difficult to initiate follow-up and to have the public medically clarified when the work of the job centres is suspended and the priority in health care is directed towards treating patients with covid-19. The measure in the field of sickness benefit is a small part of a larger aid package of 50 billion. DKK that holds hands under Danish economy. Together with the government and the rest of the Folketing, we will do whatever it takes to get Denmark safely through the crisis. The Conservative People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141214	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141220	In New Citizens we welcome this proposal, which is also part of the agreement. We fully support it. May I not also make a call, when these job clearance courses are suspended and much of the activity that was in the job centres cannot be present, for a call to be made to the municipalities that it may be some of the staff who do not have homework and who do not have other functions that can take their holidays or take some time off during that period. Because when we get over this period, we need all the strength at the posts, including in job clearance sessions, perhaps also afterwards in the job centres, if they are to exist. New citizens have a different attitude to that. At any rate, however, the resources we have in society will be needed and the municipalities will also be looking at whether some of the people who work in the job centres can take holidays or leave at this stage. Then a small mistake has crept in, which was also in the last reading, about the agreement that was concluded in the Ministry of Finance at night there. I was in on it myself. It's about this package of help on the hundreds of billions of dollars. No handshake has been given to the need to use the funds. It says that if necessary, the funds must be used. In other words, it is up to the parties and what the funds are to be used for, whether the parties support it. Then it is quite fair that there are parties that have a position that there should be a fund of 300 billion. kr. etc. But the text of the agreement says if necessary. In other words, it is the parties who are making proposals and who are dealing with the proposals that come forward at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141359	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance but I sense that a greeting is coming from another party. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141411	I'm very grateful to have a regular member of parliament who can help me in this difficult situation. I must remind you that the Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141418	Thus, all parties have expressed an opinion on the draft law, and I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141427	The art of repetition; many thanks to all the rapporteurs of Parliament's parties for their comments. As you are all aware, we have just first dealt with a bill which pauses the daily allowance for three months. That's the best way to hold hands under the benefit recipients right now. But, of course, we also have a great responsibility towards the sick benefit recipients who are about to move to the job clearance process. The situation right now, and not least the suspension of the work of the job centres, means that it will be difficult to give this group the right effort and follow-up over the next few months. That is why it is also part of the agreement that we all made on the night between Wednesday and Thursday of last week that we temporarily extend the period of sickness benefit. With the bill, those who reach the re-evaluation date between 9 March and 9 June and cannot receive an extension of their sickness benefit will be granted an extension of three months. This also applies to those where sickness benefit entitlement ends at the end of an extension rule and which would otherwise be transferred to a job clearance course. This means that during the period, there will be no people who will be transferred to the job clearance process with resource sequence performance. With the two legislative proposals that we are dealing with first today, I feel convinced that we will have benefit and sickness benefit recipients as carefully as possible through this crisis. With the many initiatives and aid packages that have now been put into the sea, we are holding our hands under the workers and companies with the clear aim of securing the Danes' work and livelihoods and thus avoiding redundancies as far as possible. The initiatives now need time to work. Once again, thank you to all of you for taking responsibility and standing together in this time. I look forward to the further examination of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141614	Thank you, Minister. There is no wish for brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200324141630	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 26 March 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
