ParlaMint-DK_20201201130049	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Torst Schack Pedersen (V), Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and others.: Suggested parliamentary resolution No. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of committees of experts to promote business democracy). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Suggested parliamentary resolution No. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Annex to the Act of Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden, Stén Knuth (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Marianne Jelved (RV), Birgitte Bergman (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Suggested parliamentary resolution No. 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution exempting small associations from the rules on money laundering and the Personal Data Regulation). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary decision to remove the age limit for fertility treatment. 4. Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130203	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130241	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Before we start the vote, I would ask you to check that there is the correct name in your voting panel. It's okay. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 19 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S) and Bent Bøgsted (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 34 (S and DF), against 60 (V, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. That is why the proposal has been rejected. Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 18 by Karsten Hønge (SF) and Jette Gottlieb (EL). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 76 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. That is why the proposal has been rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 20 by Hans Andersen (V), Samira Nawa (RV), Nase Khader (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 41 (V, RV, KF and LA), against voting 53 (S, DF, SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 2 (Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Pernille Vermund (NB)). That is why the proposal has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130444	Since the vote on the proposal was taken at first reading on Thursday 26 November 2020, there were two proposals for referral to committee in which the President-in-Office of the Council stated that the matter of referral to committee had to be decided by vote. It has been proposed that the proposal be examined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and by the Committee on the Environment and Food. The debate is actually closed, but I will give rapporteurs who wish to comment on this one minute. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130515	I think that when a motion for a resolution is tabled, it should be dealt with objectively. And when you put forward a motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs here, it is the labelling of meat, it is quite natural that it falls within the remit of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. And we also saw at first reading that the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries was up and accepting the proposal and referring to what EU legislation was to be worked on. We had a debate on methods of slaughter and such things, but this is a matter which really belongs in the Committee on the Environment and Food, if it is the case that you want something serious with the proposal, that is, if you want it to be about labelling food. If, on the other hand, you think that this is just some sort of hetz against certain groups of people, you can of course send it to another committee. But if you really mean what the proposal says about the labelling of food, then I would urge you to vote in favour of it being included in the Committee on the Environment and Food. Then I'm sure it'll get a good treatment there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130619	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on referral to committee and, in accordance with the timetable for the week, which has been submitted to the secretariat, I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. It is therefore a reference to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration that is being voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130635	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 68 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 27 (RV, SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The proposal is hereby referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. That concludes the first reading of B 46.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130714	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130719	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130756	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130803	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130830	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201130841	Today we are going to vote on a proposal from the government, L 23, which is about putting a third on top of the penalty for firing fireworks against other people. It is clear that in the Danish People's Party we were very concerned to see what happened last New Year in Denmark, where over several days we almost had a state of emergency in Denmark. A number of people, both at Nørrebro, of course, can almost say where we have some factions that make fire in the street, but in fact also in many other places in Denmark, fired fireworks off directly after other people. We may almost all remember the picture of a poor cyclist... that was then inside Nørrebro... wheeling along the bike path and being hit directly by a rocket in the head. Violent, harsh, martial law and worn typically, as one could see in several places, by immigrant boys who apparently do not bother Denmark, so it was thought that one would make a fire in the street during the days one had the opportunity to do so. So when the police got enough backup to get a little more control over things, fortunately it ebbed out, but it took 2-3 days for this to go on. On the basis of all the incidents we saw there, the government has put forward this proposal, which then adds one third to the level of punishment, in relation to what we are getting today. In the Danish People's Party and also in the first reading, we have focused a little on what happened after New Year, i.e. which judgments have actually fallen. Well, then it's so interesting what this is, you add a third to it. And if we look at what happened, there were 80 charges based on this New Year's fireworks. There were 13 who were charged with violation of section 252 of the Criminal Code, which deals with the threat of violence, and of the 13 cases there are 2 who have ended up in unconditional prison. The remaining have either met with conditional sentences or have been found for young people to be able to be punished. In one case it ends with 60 days in prison, but in all other cases it is almost insignificant penalties, and that is what one can discuss about the 60 days in prison really is. These are almost insignificant penalties. And that is what the government in its proposal, L 23, which we are discussing today, has built a third on top of it. Then you can see that zero plus a third isn't very much, or that zero times a third, if that's what you wanted, isn't very much. So we are standing here today with a symbolic proposal from the government that looks very fine on paper. Now we are tightening up, now we are gungling, and now we are putting up the penalty. But unfortunately the reality is different. In the light of this, the Danish People's Party has tabled an amendment to the draft law, in which we say that, at least, it must be the case that if you risk other people, i.e. if you shoot fireworks at other people, it costs at least one year in prison. Then my question to those parties that will not support that amendment by the Danish People's Party is what the argument is for not supporting such a proposal. What is the argument in the Left? At New Citizens'? Conservatives? With the Social Democrats? With the government that tells us all that we're tough on crime and that it can't be right and that we don't want to play criminal games? What's the point? Is there any argument against introducing a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment, which is in this amendment? I am not sure that there are any arguments. At least I haven't heard anyone. That is why the call is: now support the two amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. You have the chance here, dear Parliament, to ensure that there will be some decent, tough law and order policy on New Year's Eve this year or around New Year's this year. If the same thing happens again, then it will cost a year in prison if you vote for the two amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party in a moment. If you vote for the government's proposal, it costs a third on top of zero. What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131335	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131341	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 (DF and NB), against 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (DF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. Three, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131448	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131453	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131520	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131525	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131548	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131553	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131625	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131659	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131705	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131735	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131741	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131805	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131831	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131836	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131900	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131905	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131929	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201131934	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1, tabled by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF, RV, and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote will be taken at the end For voting 27 (RV, SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 68 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has therefore been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132028	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132052	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132107	After all, this is a bill which concerns transferring some authority from the municipalities to the state. And then it's really good if the state's got this place under control...
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132120	Negotiations are under way, so if you are going to talk, please pull out to the sidelines. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132126	Thank you. It is, of course, a bill which concerns transferring some authority from the municipalities to the state. And then, when it comes to aquaculture, it is important that you have control over the area. The fact is that there is a lack of habitat assessments and that there is a lack of compliance with the EU Habitats Directive. I have then asked in the case whether the Minister will explain the timetable for carrying out the EU-legally required habitat assessments of marine and pond farms, and there I get an answer that says: The question concerns the specific administration of matters relating to location permits for existing marine farms carried out by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. And then you refer to some old answers that I have received in the past. What, then, is the reality? It is, of course, that the timetable does not last, and we are then told in a note that came out to the Committee on the Environment yesterday. So this is not something we have been told about in the legislative process, and frankly I think that is too bad. Because what's the consequence of this? Yes, it is, of course, that illegal marine farming in Denmark can continue for another two years when the timetable is running out. We're running out of time. I think that is actually quite serious, and that is why I propose that this draft law should go back to committee so that we can clarify what changes are taking place when we cannot comply with the timetable that has been asked in the legislative process. And what has been said has not been quite right. I think this is very serious, because we are not living up to an EU directive, and there is some legislation that we have not implemented, and then there is a production that pollutes that can be allowed to continue driving out there. And there is the prospect that the illegal activities can run for two more years. So I would like the matter back in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132316	Thank you. We shall then see if we can grant it. No one else wanted to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132338	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. [Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Specific Projects (EIA) and the Law on the Farming and Use of Fertilizers, etc.] PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Environmental Assessment of Plans and Programmes and of Concrete Projects (EIA). PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, elected by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG))? It's agreed. There is a desire for the legislative proposals to go back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. This applies to both of the draft legislations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132426	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132431	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132453	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132458	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132524	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201132529	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of LA and NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Now I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.40 so that we can clean up and desprite voting panels etc. We will resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 13.40.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134000	It's 1:40 p.m., so we'll resume the meeting. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134029	Thank you. I'll be brief. We are pleased to see that common digital mail is now being introduced for both parents. There may be some exceptions where only one party gets it, but that is a very good step in terms of equality. And I should like to thank all the parties that have helped to draw up this proposal and to cooperate on it. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134050	There are no brief comments, and that is why we now move on to Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134103	Thank you. I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister. I hope that we will have many good debates and good cooperation. I see the Minister is busy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134120	It is the case that the Minister is spoken very directly, so... here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134125	I'll be brief again. I just want to start by welcoming the Minister. I look forward very much to good cooperation and, above all, to very good debates in this Chamber. It has to be said that although almost a year and a half have passed since the elections, this is actually the first legislative proposal coming from the Minister for Gender Equality. We're gonna need some more of those. I have been looking forward to the legislative proposal that we are going to be discussing today for a very, very long time, and that is what we in the Left have been looking forward to. It is also a bill that we have waited a long time for, because we set it in motion before the change of government, but unfortunately we did not have time to implement it. Then there's been some bumps on the road since then. This is the fourth time that the draft law has been given a date, but unfortunately it has not been dealt with yet, so the day is today, and we are really very happy about that in the Left. As I said, it is not only because it is a proposal that we ourselves are indulging in, but also because it is a very good proposal. By 2020, we cannot live with a signal that mothers are the primary parents and fathers secondary. Because even though it is now stated in the Equality Act that municipalities should send digital mail to both parents, that is not how it happens. We see that it is mostly one of the parents who gets it. We're gonna change that today. As of today, it is not appropriate to send out to both parents who have custody, but must be sent out to both parents. So this is a legislative proposal that we have looked forward to, as I said, and of course we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134317	Thank you. And then it's sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134334	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, was here for a conciliation meeting, so she could not be here just now, and that is why I was entrusted with this bill. And I can see from the previous speakers that Mrs Liselott Blixt has made an overly long speech. Doesn't it matter whether you're a parent or a parent? Of course you are, and that is why it is incredible that by 2020 we still have the strange situation that only one parent gets a post when it comes to the child after a divorce. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that a child needs both parents, and that when both parents have custody, the same information must of course be sent to both parents. It is not always the case that you have good contact with the other party in a divorce, and therefore it is certainly important that the information comes to both, otherwise you can be completely unaware of it, i.e. if you do not get the information from the other party. In several cases, the Disciplinary Board of the Health Service has decided when both custody holders are to receive information and consent and when the consent of one custody holder is sufficient. It follows from the disciplinary board's practice that parents with joint custody must, as a general rule, agree on all health measures relating to the child. However, custody holders can individually make decisions of a more everyday nature. Thus, a parent may, without the consent of the other parent, submit general medical examinations and treatments to the child. In these situations, the consent of the other parent is not required. On the other hand, it requires, for example: major surgery or treatment with strong medication consent of both custody holders. The same applies to studies of the child, e.g. does not require insignificant body intervention. In the case of such major decisions and interventions, both custody holders also have the right to receive information about the child's treatment. It is proposed that public authorities, etc., when sending digital mail containing notification of a child's relationship and which, according to its content under the relevant sectoral legislation, are aimed at both custody holders of the child, should send the digital mail to both of them. The proposed scheme implies that digital mail with notification of a child's relationship intended for both custody holders, for example: messages about the child from school, children's institution, social and health care, health care, hospitals, doctor and dentist must be sent to both custody holders, whether or not they are roommates. Notifications of a child's state relationship must thus match the daily lives of many families, where the parent role and practical tasks related to a child are a common concern and responsibility. As some organisations point out, there may be circumstances in which you should ensure that you do not send information that allows the other party to see your secret address, etc. This applies to both sides, since I know men who live at hidden addresses because of harassment. But I am surprised to read the Dad Association's consultation letter, so I would like the Minister's answer to that. In this context, we would also like to ask the Minister's answer as to why we should not be treated in the same way if it is per year. plain letter; why it is evident that only digital mail is involved. But it may be a mistake, because there may be some who do not have digital mail, and they may also have to have the information, in other words, in the form of a regular letter. And maybe that's not all that can be sent by digital mail. However, I would like to ask the Minister to take note of that. Then I am sure that Mrs Liselott Blixt will be back in the committee work and will be able to explain how else the Danish People's Party feels about this proposal. I'll leave that unsaid. With those words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201134810	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted should not be sad that it was a long speech, because it is a very special day today. It is a day that I think there are more of us who have been looking forward to it too. But today is the day when, for the first time since the 2019 elections, we equality rapporteurs meet in Parliament to deal first with a bill from the government. And better late than never. However, this is not the first time we have been gathered in this Chamber. At the end of May we discussed a rather excellent resolution, if I may say so myself, on target numbers on boards, and on that occasion we had the company of the Minister of Industry. So I am very pleased that we are now seeing the Minister for Gender Equality in the Chamber, and that is not just because a new minister has arrived in this area. Because there is enough to address, and I look forward to discussing this in the forthcoming debate on the statement. But now we're starting with this bill that ensures that digital mail is sent to both parents. It is a step in the right direction towards a more equal relationship between parents, for it can be difficult to find convincing arguments as to why it should be different. There has been a major development in parenting in recent years, when fathers today are far more involved than in the past in their children's everyday lives and in their children's well-being and fortunately for that! This must of course be the case in modern and equal societies. It is therefore not particularly modern that the authorities have practices where only one parent is communicated, mainly with the mother. It is about equality in parenthood, but it is also basically about the possibility that both parents can assume the responsibility of having a child; messages from school, from the hospital and from the dentist. It's the parents' It's simply pointless that it's one parent who has to pass on messages like that to the other. As is also mentioned in several of the consultation responses, there are special cases where, in the best interests of the child, it may be appropriate that only one parent receives the post from the authorities. We in the Radical Left also welcome this. This bill may be seen as a minor technical change, but I believe it is important that we make exactly this type of change. Because we cannot legislate for complete equality in parenthood and in society in general... it is something that happens between people... but we can make sure that parents are at least not met by a system that basically makes a difference in parenthood. This must at least be a start, and I hope that this will not be the first time that we have dealt with a proposal in the area of equality in this Chamber. There is enough to do. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we now move on to Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135126	Thank you. I have also been looking forward to today and finally having to deal with the first out of hopefully many government bills in the field of equality. Because there is still no equality between men and women and neither in parenthood, but with this proposal we are going some way along the way, and that is very good. Because, of course, the system and the legislation should not reproduce these outdated parent stereotypes by doing so, for example. Only the mother who receives digital mail about the child. In the SF, we believe that it is necessary to take legislative initiatives in order to create real equality in Denmark. Equality does not come by itself only through a change in culture. It is therefore quite obvious that the practice of public authorities as a starting point should be to send digital mail to both custody holders. When the public only sends messages about the child's relationship with mothers, we send a really bad signal that fathers and mothers are not equal parents. Of course, by 2020, Father must also be involved on an equal footing with Mother when it concerns the child's life, needs and well-being, and communications about the child in relation to day care, school, health must of course be sent to both with custody. It is quite obvious to me. However, there is also one but, and that is also what we can read in the consultation answers there may be exceptions, and therefore the SF also supports the exceptions that have been made here. Firstly, we must ensure that the child is taken into account. If public communications can cause unnecessary anxiety about the child, there must be exceptions. For example, if the child is in a children's group or is given other advice in a situation of high conflict between custody holders in connection with the divorce of parents, attention should be paid to what is best for the child when sending digital mail to parents. Secondly, there may be examples of partner violence or a situation where one or both parents stay in a shelter or live under address protection, where information about, for example, the child's daycare institution can reveal where one parent is, and thus be insecure. Therefore, it is extremely important that the new rules adequately protect vulnerable parents and their children, and we must keep an eye on that, too, in future implementation. Finally, we can also read in the consultation note that an extension of the legislative proposal can be considered. For perhaps digital mail to both parents should also involve some of the communication that takes place before the child is born. Today it is the case that only mother is summoned to a doctor, midwife visits and scans, and that is clear, because it is the woman who is pregnant with a child and the woman who is about to give birth, but at the same time it may make sense that the father of the child experiences being part of the process and feeling association with the child that is about to come. Dad is already welcome, and in some cases it is actually expected that he will participate when, for example, he is participating. for midwife consultations as well as neck folds and malformation scans during pregnancy. Should we not consider whether he should also be called upon to do so when it is expected that he will be there anyway? It can also help to make the danger more connected with the future child. Of course, both custody holders must receive digital mail from the public regarding their common child, and this must be done from the outset. I am actually surprised that we will not change this until 2020. It's about time. With these comments, I can say that the SF supports the proposal, and then I should welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135511	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have now reached Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135527	Thank you for that and welcome to the Minister. I look forward to having even more meetings with the Minister in this area. Today, both parents do not always receive mail about their common children, so it is a very good bill that we are working on today. In many cases it is only sent to the mother, and I should like to say that as a mother I am very pleased that it is going to be sent to Dad because there is a lot that we need to multi-bag as women. Therefore, the previous government put forward a bill to amend the Equality Act, so that in future the authorities are clearly obliged to send digital mail to both parents when there is joint custody. But then the election came and the bill was never passed, but hopefully it is now because parenthood is far along the way an equal relationship between parents, whether they live together or not. The initiative is also well in line with the family law system, which focuses on equal parenthood, and does so, among other things. possible for parents in broken families to agree the shared residence of their child. I think it is important for good cooperation between parents that they feel equally worthwhile, and good cooperation is important for the child's well-being. Today, the public has an uneven practice of digital communication to parents about common children. Often it is the mothers who receive the digital mail on health care, dental appointments and day care. With this bill, we ensure that when public authorities send digital mail containing messages about a child's relationship and which, according to its content under the relevant sectoral legislation, are aimed at both custody holders of the child, they send notification to both. This should help citizens to generally receive up-to-date and coherent digital services which, at the same time, create greater equality between custody holders in order to enable them to cooperate more closely on the everyday life of the child. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135732	Thank you. A positive bill! I cannot help thinking that if it had been the reverse world and the information had only flowed to the men, this bill would have come into the world more quickly. I simply think that the pressure on the population would have been much greater because there had been a chaos in all families because you did not know when you were going to one thing or the other. But the men must still have it as a right, but I must say that if it had been the other way around and that only the men had been given this information for many years, then I think this had seen the light of day before. But now it's here, and it's positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135811	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Ole Birk Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135814	The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill. In the context of equality in Denmark, we talk a lot about the fact that women are not equal to men, but there is no legal place where women are not equal to men. Only men are not equal to women. This is one example of the fact that in law we have a discrimination against men and women who suffer from men, and now we are doing away with it. At some point, we might be able to do away with the other things in law that discriminate against men, but this is a first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135851	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201135857	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the many nice and warm greetings in relation to my new position as also being Minister for Gender Equality. After all, as several rapporteurs mention, there are not many cases that have reached the Parliamentary Chamber yet. One can already see at a glance at the calendar that something will be done about that just this week alone. So, of course, I look forward to that very much. In addition, I would also like to thank you for the many speeches that have expressed both warm and wholehearted support for this bill. As a nation, Denmark is at the forefront of public digitalisation. Both in 2018 and in 2020, the UN has proclaimed Denmark as the world champion of public digitalisation, and we can and must be proud of that, of course. But here we have to make a stop in the good story, because in many cases it is the mother alone who receives the digital mail about a child from the public sector. It sends out a false and outdated signal that Mom and Dad are not equal and that mothers are primarily responsible for children, and it does not give parents who have joint custody the same opportunity to discharge their parental responsibility. The public does not have to decide which parent should be notified when it is time to write the child up for day care or school, or when the child should be for dental visits. Of course, these messages must be sent to both parents. This is a desire of the vast majority of parents. Fortunately, municipalities have already arranged to send digital mail to both custody holders about a common child. Today's draft law makes it clear to all authorities that notification of a common child must be sent to both parents. The public authorities cannot assume that the other, once a parent has received the notification, is informed. This is true whether parents live together or not. In the families where the child lives with both his parents, public letters are no longer on the kitchen table so that both parents can read them. The majority are sent by digital mail, and it takes NemID to access them. Missing communications to a parent from the public sector should not make it difficult for parents to work together in those families where parents do not live together. I am aware that we must take care of the families in a situation where special attention is being paid and where it could cause unnecessary anxiety about the child if communications about the child are sent to both custody holders. That is why the bill also states that it must be possible to send notification only to one custody holder if, for example, the child's best opinion so requires. With the bill, we are giving the many fathers who take and want to take part in their children's lives a better chance of doing so, and we are promoting equality in families, as several rapporteurs have said. Then Mr. Bent Bøgsted in his speech to why this bill only applies to digital mail. It is the case that, in the common public digitalisation strategy from 2016 to 2020, we have determined that citizens must be sure that they receive all relevant digitalised mail from the public digitally. Therefore, public authorities communicate with citizens to a large extent via digital mail, and this also applies to important messages to parents about a child. Digital mail means that messages are in the individual's e-Boks and that it takes a NemID to see them. If the mail is only in Mom's inbox, Dad's been sidetracked. That is why it is particularly important for the authorities, when sending digital mail about a common child targeted at both custody holders, to send it to both of them, and by focusing on digital mail, we also have a clear demarcation that makes it easy to administer for the authorities. I hope that was the answer to Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question during the debate. Otherwise, of course, you are always welcome to submit your questions in writing. With these words, I would like to look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140310	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140316	Thank you, Minister. We'll send it in writing. There may actually be, and it is even if you are exempt from digital mail, you can have custody and have a child who goes to school and need information. Does it come in such cases in writing, or is it only digital? If the Minister cannot answer here, we will ensure that we send a written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140346	I would, of course, also like to follow this up in writing so that it can also be used in further committee proceedings, but this bill is based only on digital mail.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140354	Thank you. In this way, we also thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140408	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140429	Thank you very much for that, President. And I could imagine that there are many of them who hear me daily on the platform in here, who look up and think: What is this? Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is wearing a tie! That is not something that Leif Lahn Jensen often has, I would say. It is mostly when there is something politically necessary that I have to do in relation to my work or if there is a festive opportunity. Something we're celebrating, something I'm super happy about. And there's something to celebrate today. For today we say to all those who have worked hard since they were young and who have paid taxes so that others could get an education and get a well-paid job, those who have helped build the welfare society up to the welfare society we have today, as we are so proud of, those who have helped build up the society we know today: you can now retire early if you feel you can't do more if your body is worn out. It is today that we celebrate that we will have the greatest right to work for many years, and I think my smile can be seen: I am incredibly pleased about that, and the Social Democrats are extremely pleased about that. We tell those who as young people go straight into a construction site very early in the morning, in all kinds of weather, out to work, physically hard work, it can be workers, it can be masons, carpenters, plumbers, electricians. We say this to those who, as young people, take good care of our loved ones, they may be those who have been sosu's and nurses from young people, and we say to the dock workers who have dragged a lot of tons on their shoulders for many years, and to the slaughterhouse workers who stand in the same place with the same movements for many years, and probably also many others I could mention here, that in doing so they have a right as great as everyone else to have a dignified retirement. I think they certainly deserve that, and that is certainly fair. If you look at the consultation answers, you will see that employees are in agreement and that disability organisations and seniors are very much in agreement: you support the proposal. But you can also see that employers may not quite think this is necessary. And if you go into the consultation answers, you can see that especially the leaders write: the retirement age should be the same for everyone. But I just have to ask: what about the right to a decent retirement? Isn't that supposed to apply to everyone? What about the right to have a dignified retreat, where you have the desire and time to be together, the possibility of it, and the strength to be with those you care about, for example. His children? Shouldn't it be for everyone? Because the truth is, many of these people don't live as long as their peers. They don't have that good retirement age that everyone's dreaming about. They do not live long, and they are worn out, and many of them hut themselves in the last few years of pain. That is simply not right. And that's what this law is about. It's the whole essence of this law, and it's so important. I would like to thank those who have really supported this fight. Thank you to the trade union movement, which has supported it, thank you to the alliance for dignified withdrawal, which has stood down there again and again, where we negotiated, and welcomed us with a smile, gave us some brochures into the negotiating rooms and welcomed us again when we got out. And especially to the NNF and their president, who has repeatedly kicked in the doors to say to the politicians: this is important. Thank you so much. I would also like to thank the parties in here. Thank you to Enhedslisten, thank you to SF, and thank you to DF, because this cannot be done if there is not a majority who thinks the same thing. If there's no majority in here saying this is necessary for these people. Those people deserve to retire early because they are worn out, they certainly deserve the opportunity. And that's why I'm surprised the bourgeois don't mean this. Because I can only say that I know many voters, especially in relation to the Left, who actually think this is an important matter. But of course we must challenge that. I am very much looking forward to the discussion, because this is politics. This is a question of what we want with our society. Should we allow people to get worn out or make sure they get a good pension with their loved ones? Of course we have to do the last thing. Everyone deserves a good pension, everyone deserves the time and effort to be together for hopefully many years, like everyone else, with their children. And it's incredibly important to us. That is why we are standing here today, that is why we are in a good mood. And I don't think it's a big surprise that we're voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201140918	Congratulations, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that he has found a day where there is something to celebrate and therefore a reason to wear ties in the Assembly Hall. I must also say, however, that although Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has now had the power of government, or his party has had the power of government, for a year and a half, this is the first time I have seen Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Leif Lahn Jensen with a tie on in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is a pity that, when one has formed a government, there will have to be a year and a half before there is anything to celebrate. But that's the way it is. I'm gonna need to hear sir. Leif Lahn Jensen: The whole speech gives the impression that there was nothing for Arne and his colleagues, but Arne and his colleagues had the reward to go on. Arne was entitled to early retirement. What he has received now is a pension, named after him, which is more lucrative, so he opts out of his early retirement, and then he can get more money through Arnepensionen. Well, that's not true, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that Arne did not have an opportunity to resign from the labour market early. He did.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141023	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141025	Well, I would like to say here from the platform that yes, I have put it on today, and there are actually many who have met me in the hallway and said that I really do look good in ties, so I will then consider wearing that again another time; I will certainly do so. I don't know if I believe it or if it's just to flatter me and be polite. But at least I will. That's how this proposal works. It's what's so important that in 2006 when the welfare agreement was made, we agreed to the welfare agreement, provided that the post-retirement pay was also there. Of course, and we still think that people should work longer if they can, but we are also fully aware that not everyone can. But then we can just see that civil governments have actually made the post-retirement pay worse and worse, so that means that there are quite a lot of people who are not on early retirement because it is no longer worth their while. That means that precisely the group we have here will not be able to come up with those arrangements, and that is why we are doing it. That's because there's a need for an early retirement right, and that's why I think it's so good. It's about the people I talked about before, and even more, so it's super good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141124	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141125	Well, about half of those who go to Arnepension are expected to be some who have the right to take early retirement and have paid early retirement, and who then think that they have now got a new scheme, so now they opt out of the early retirement and get the money back from there, and then they get the second scheme, which is totally free; they then accept it instead. So it is not true that these people have not had the opportunity and have no opportunity to leave early. Then there's the other half. These are some who have been offered to be part of the early retirement scheme, but who have opted out of it, who did not want to pay early retirement contributions, and then they just get a gift from the government instead. What's the real reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141204	But I don't understand this premise at all. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen makes it sound like these people just want to retire early when they take this. Listen: I've met a lot of people, including my old friends at the harbour, proud people who really love their work, and if they can still work, feel good and make a lot of good money, why would they choose to go down to an early retirement? Why would they do that? Surely they will not, if they have a well-paid job; they would rather hold on to that. So I'm just not buying the model that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is trying to describe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141234	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141236	Now we hear over and over again that this is about worn-out. But can the rapporteur not confirm that, according to the bill, it has nothing to do with being worn out? It may be that there are some who feel worn out, but there are no rights that are hung up on being worn out. There are some rights that are linked to how many years you have been in the labour market. So can the rapporteur confirm that if you are worn out and you are 58 years old and have been on the labour market for 38 years, then this is not for you? Then maybe you're worn out, Sonny Boy. This isn't for you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141331	What I can confirm is that, yes, it is a right for those who are worn out, and I know plenty of them. I have former colleagues and good friends who are not so ill that they can get a senior pension, but as you can see is worn out. Believe me, I can tell the difference between my former colleagues and me because I've been in here for 13 years and they've just been out on the labour market a little longer than I have. It's for people who can feel that now it's really, really bad for them. If you've read about the alliance that we talked about before and how many of them in those jobs feel worn out and what it is for hard work and that they can really feel it on their bodies when they get there, you'll understand this. If you talk to those people, you will understand that we are giving them an opportunity, a right to say: now I can no longer, now I want to be with my grandchildren, I want a decent and worthy withdrawal. They get that right, and I think that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141422	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141425	If that's what you wanted to do, you should have done it. Then you should have improved the system so that it didn't take the same thing to get on a senior pension or the other. You could've just changed it. Can the rapporteur confirm that with the legislative proposal that has been put forward here, there are in fact people who have actually only been perhaps 25 years on the labour market, and so they actually have the right to leave early? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141444	What I can say at any rate is that it is quite clear and clear to see that too, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen can see, because he's pretty good at reading this bill... how many years you have to be on the job market to get that right and how many years you don't have to be. What I'm saying now isn't part of the bill, but we made that deal, too, and now I'm looking at mr. Bent Bøgsted, for it was also important for the Dansk Folkeparti to increase the working capacity requirement in relation to senior pension from 15 to 18 hours a week in order to help these people. So I'd say this was a great deal, and this is a really good opportunity to give these people a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141522	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141524	Thank you. We have had these discussions a number of times, certainly, and that is what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen to have put on a tie. One might hope for the government I don't do that we will continue to see Leif Lahn Jensen in ties. But in the election campaign one could have gained the impression that, if one heard debates about this very thing about the Social Democratic proposal on early retirement, it was about more than 40 years in work and that it was about three years in early retirement. Well, then I'll just have to ask sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, if it is not true that in order to retire early, according to the model we are discussing today, we must have been 47 years on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141621	What we said then was that it should be over 40 years, and we said that we should have a right to retire early. There's nothing of what we said back then that you can't find in this bill. I also just remember the Prime Minister who said that, didn't he? Wasn't it the Left who said time and again that this can't be done? I've been over with mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, who was minister then, and I was poured out because this was not possible. Now you can only see that if you want something in politics, that is possible. I hope that the Left can learn a little from that. It wasn't a bluff. We're serious about this. We will be so I can only say that although the Left has said otherwise, the Left will just not help these people, but we must try to challenge Mr. Hans Andersen in when he gets back on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141712	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141714	We would very much like to help people who are worn out and unable to work. That is why we have actually created a senior pension scheme which the Social Democratic Party has subsequently joined. But I have to understand that if you are unemployed, that is to say on the allowance, then you can be entitled to an early retirement pension, whereas if you are on training, that is to say, starting your young life with an education, then you cannot be covered by the entitlement to an early retirement pension. So here the Social Democracy, the government, makes a difference whether you are taking an education or whether you are unemployed for a period of time. The rapporteur is allowed to explain the reason for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141757	What we are saying is that the people who have worked a great many hours, those who are associated with the labour market, and that is, when you are on the allowance, you must have the opportunity to be entitled to an early pension, that is, if you have been there for that number of years. That's what they say. And the reason why we have of course also brought in such things as maternity leave and part-time work is that otherwise there would not be very many women, and of course they should also have the opportunity. So that's why it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141819	Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141824	Thank you. It is full of Social Democrats wearing ties in this Chamber, so I would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteur. I would actually like to make it clear that in the Radical Left we want to help those who are worn out and think that this is doing very well with the senior pension scheme. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is the element of the early retirement agreement that equates part-time employment with full-time employment. Now, just a moment ago, we had the government's first draft law in the field of equal opportunities... how does Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen actually agrees with equality, that whether you work part-time or full-time, can you get the same right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141912	I was aware that it might be a little dangerous for me to wear a tie today; I'm gonna do it more often, because you'll notice when I don't. I'm gonna have to do it. But thank you very much for the words of praise. I just want to say that I do not think that Samira Nawa has fully understood, because the reason why we did it with maternity leave, and the reason why we did it with part-time work, was actually that it was found out that there were a lot of women who were part-time, and if we didn't bring this along, we wouldn't get the number of women with part-time work so it would be very, very wrong; then most men would come along. So this is actually in line with that discussion, which is why I think it is very good, because there are also a lot of women who have been out there for many years and worked hard, and of course we must remember them too. So it's an attempt to bring as many of this group as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141955	Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201141958	Well, that's what I thought, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen would answer. But now it is also a question of part-time employment not being equated with full-time employment. - Sir... Leif Lahn Jensen does not see the injustice of some people working part-time for a number of years and then having exactly the same rights as those who have worked full-time or some who have worked full-time for 42 years and then not getting the right to an early pension, but do people who have worked part-time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142035	I am sure that if we had not done so, Mrs Samira Nawa would have stood up and asked where the women are that they have been forgotten. Here we have secured everyone; here we have secured women; here we have secured those who have worked very hard since they were very young. Some may not have had full - time jobs; of course, women have also had children and have had to be at home caring for those children and have taken maternity leave. So it is an attempt to tell all those who have worked hard for many years that they are entitled to early retirement. Remember, it's an opportunity. They don't have to do it, but it's an option, and I think that's super good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142120	Thank you. I'm gonna fix the tie. It is in order to follow up on the former rapporteur, who was so well dressed here. Then it became Arne's turn, you have to understand. One could see that there were many clumsies needed to make this possible. First, it was the worn out Social Democrats who wanted to help. It wasn't like that. Then people should have worked for 40 years to be able to retire from the labour market. It was then 47 years. Then it was said that it was about three years earlier that you could retire, and for one third it was only one year earlier that you could retire. If people actually get what they've been promised, I leave them to the individual. What we know, however, is that we will have 10,000 fewer people on the labour market, that taxes will be increased by 2.5 billion. kr., and that we suffer a loss of wealth in Denmark of 13 billion. kr. In other words, Denmark becomes poorer, and the bill sends the Social Democratic Party to ordinary Danes, who can then help finance a new transfer income; a bill that can easily end up being much bigger if more than expected take advantage of this new right, because then the costs will rise, and then only companies and taxpayers will pick up the bill. It is not only against everything the Left stands for, it is also deeply irresponsible when we are in the midst of a historic economic crisis. The Left would very much like to help improve the current arrangements so that we can create even more a pension system that takes care of those people who have worked hard for society and who have been worn out before retirement age. After all, the senior pension was created to take care of these people, and in the Left we recognise that it can be improved. However, it is the senior pension that ensures a dignified retirement if you have been worn out • a proper benefit up to 6 years before the retirement age. We are ready to improve this as early as New Year's, but we can understand from the parties behind the early retirement agreement that this should only happen from 2024. It is sad for the many who are worn out and who may also have worked for only 40 or 41 years. Because in the Left we are of the opinion that those who cannot work should not work and no longer are. But those who can, i.e. those who are not worn out, must, of course, contribute. We think that this is only a reasonable requirement to make of people when we have the welfare society we have, where the widest shoulders must bear the heaviest burdens. The Left cannot therefore support a system that potentially puts thousands of healthy people on passive support, and therefore we cannot support this bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142444	Thank you. There are a number of brief remarks I had just said: with tie. That's the way it is in this debate. Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142451	Thank you so much for your speech. After all, I have never doubted what the Left meant, because when I was over negotiating before the elections with our current Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, we were aware that the Left did not want to do anything for these people. But I also know that there are many people out there who actually vote on the Left and who are really worn out and want it here. After all, you need to know from Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen and from the Left: Now that the Left is coming to us we will, of course, do everything we can to make it last a long time, but I suppose the Left will come to power at some point what then? So you roll this back right away, or what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142533	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142534	After all, we are of the opinion that this is economically irresponsible, and that is why we do not want to help healthy people to leave the labour market and let somebody else pay. That's what the government is doing here. They allow some other people to pay for people who could continue to have the right to retire early, perhaps one year, two years or, in some cases, three years before their retirement age. So we will not support the fact that this will be extended longer than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142606	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142608	No, I'm aware of that. I think everyone is aware of that. But what you are not aware of, and what the electorate of the Left is not aware of, and they probably want to know, is: when you come to government at some point, this has become law, and then it works, and what will the Left do? Will they roll it back and have it removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142626	Yeah, we don't support early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142633	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142635	I have heard the rapporteur repeatedly confirm that if you are worn out, you should not work. It has been mentioned in other debates, and it has also been mentioned here: if you are worn out, you should not work. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur: what if you are a little worn-out if you are, for example, a little worn-out? Only if you go on pills 24 hours a day and stuff like that can do your job? What is the rapporteur's position on the withdrawal of this nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142705	We want to improve the current senior pension scheme. We support a proposal to say that if you can work less than 18 hours a week, you must have the opportunity to step out on a senior pension scheme up to 6 years before the age of retirement. If you can work a little more hours but not full time, there is, in fact, already a flexible job that you can get where you work the hours you can, and then you can be supplemented with cash benefits for the rest of the time. It is, in fact, an excellent and very good scheme which may well be used by up to 100,000 Danes already. So I would recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142739	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142741	Then the rapporteur mentioned that it would pull 10,000 healthy people out of the labour market. How does he even know that? I am surprised, because I know that there are a great many in those age groups who are already on all kinds of different kinds of transfer income and who are in fact supported by the public sector in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142805	Approx. 9,800, I think it is that will be withdrawn from the labour market in 2025, are calculations which the government has so kindly given in response to questions that we, among others, have. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I am confident that the answers are right when they come from the Minister for Employment. So it is 9,800 who are being pulled out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142831	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142833	Thank you for that, President. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen about one thing. For Mr. Hans Andersen says it's healthy people. And Mrs Jette Gottlieb mentions this with those who go to work on pills if you, for example, go to work on pills. well can go to work, but take six or eight pills a day to go to work. But you are not bad enough to be able to get under the 18 hours that will be the rule in 2024 if otherwise it can be done at that time. Sir. Hans Andersen says there's flex jobs, and then they'll be able to be flexed. But there are a lot of people who can't get a flex job. We've got thousands walking around and can't get a flex job. Not everyone can get a flex job. I know, sir. Hans Andersen is involved in a conciliation on early and flexible job reform, but there is no guarantee that you can get a flex job. Is it not reasonable, then, that they can say that then they take an early pension and retire in good order because they cannot stand to go to work without taking a lot of pills? And maybe they can't, even if they get flex jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142944	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201142946	I certainly think that if you are worn out and unable to work, you should be able to step out, and there we have together with the Danish People's Party created the senior pension scheme, which is a very good arrangement. We can also hear that we agree on improvement. We then think that the improvement should take place as early as 2024. Then there is flexible work as an alternative if you do not want to step out on a senior pension scheme. And it is true that there are people today who do not want a flex job and cannot get it. There we have thus seen a joint task in ensuring that more people get a flex job, because there are actually good opportunities for that, even in today's Denmark, and it can be said that the number of people who are unemployed and who have been awarded a flex job has, fortunately, fallen over recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143029	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143031	I actually think that all those who are waiting to be approved for a flex job seem to think so, sir. Hans Andersen says it's great if mr. Hans Andersen could then give them a guarantee that during the month of December and January they can all get a flex job, that they can all get a flex job. But that is not the reality. The reality is not that the companies are jumping to hire all those who are approved for a flex job. The reality is that if you cannot work a certain number of hours, including on flex jobs, companies are not so insanely interested in getting them. Should they not then have the opportunity to withdraw in good order three years before retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143114	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143117	I certainly think we have a major task in getting even more people who have been awarded a flex job into an ordinary flex job. This gives the individual perspective on life, and it certainly also offers opportunities in the individual companies. So that's where we have a job. And that is also why we are currently discussing in the conciliation circle behind the early retirement and flex jobs reform, both how we improve resources, but also how we can ensure that even more people get into flex jobs, and indeed flex jobs, where it will then pay to take a few more hours of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143146	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143151	Thank you. I choose to believe that all the people who stand out in the Palace Square are betting on the drum for a really, really good proposal today. I hear they hit the drums really hard. That's really good to hear. I note that the rapporteur has prepared very well for this discussion and debate that we are going to have today, and simply has all sorts of answers in his sleeve about how the number of people in the labour market will fall and how much it costs society, senior pensions, and I have to give you. But we need one answer. The rapporteur has been given the question once again, but I have to ask the question one more time: is the Left going to roll this bill back when the Left gets the government again? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143238	I'm trying to repeat myself. We do not support the right to early retirement. We are not doing so now, and we are not doing so after a forthcoming election.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143249	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143251	At the risk of being accused of... no, I'm not being accused of talking with wool in my mouth. I think I speak very clearly, but I think the rapporteur is very clear with wool in his mouth, I would say. I ask in another way: will the Left come forward with a proposal to abolish the possibility of early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143315	After a forthcoming election, we will hopefully have a new Prime Minister, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. We must clarify that, but I do not know anything about it at this stage. So what I can just say today is that we do not support the right to early retirement. We do not do that now, and neither do we after a forthcoming parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143343	The next brief remark is to Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143348	I would like to take the rapporteur on a trip to Jutland, where I have met a young man who is learning as a carpenter. He said several times to me in connection with the elections and also in the past: when I am trained as a carpenter, will there actually be a previous pension? And now we are here with a bill that entitles us to a previous pension, and yet I think it is unclear whether or not I have a tie on or on the Left, if they come to power, will come up with a bill that rolls the pension back and will not just search the opportunity. There are so many voters out there who have supported the Left and who also support this proposal for a previous pension, so will you support the Danes, or will you support the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143448	In the Left we are concerned with creating a good society, and I think the Danes certainly support that. And there is, of course, the question of using our common funds with care, and we do not think that the way in which a right to a previous pension is now being introduced, including for healthy people, is sensible use of our common funds, so the room for manoeuvre which could otherwise have been spent on health or care for the elderly, and we do not, as far as companies or citizens are concerned, as a result of this, for example. has to pay more taxes. So we do not support the right to early retirement now, nor will we support the right to early retirement after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143531	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143533	Can the rapporteur confirm that despite the countless Danes who think this is actually a very good idea and who support the idea that people with a craftsman's background should not start the day on two aspirins and who actually support proper working conditions and the right to a previous pension, so that it is there for Nicklas when he has grown up that the Left will nevertheless table a bill that openly goes against it when one comes to form a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143615	We certainly support the fact that the young carpenter has a very good working life and is not worn out at all. That's what this job is all about. After all, the young carpenter has started early, and according to the bill here today, he may not be able to retire at the age of 65, 66, 67, 68 or perhaps 69, even if he is entitled to an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143645	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143649	Thank you. It may well be that I am the one who is heavy, but I am simply not quite sure what the rapporteur has exactly answered my colleagues' questions. So it may be, but then just for my sake, I have to ask if the rapporteur will not spell it out. When this parliamentary term ends and we are going to a parliamentary election again, the Left will stand in the election campaign and ask the Danes for a mandate to roll back this law for a right to earlier retirement for those with many years on the labour market. Will the Left go to the polls for that law to be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143723	Yes, I have said it a number of times: we do not support the right to an early pension now, we do not support the right to an early pension in an election campaign. That is what the rapporteur asked me about and we do not support the right to an early pension after a parliamentary election. Then I don't think I can make it any clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143737	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143739	It must then be a very clear answer to the fact that the Left is now going to vote to abolish perhaps the most fair solution that has been made for those with a very many years on the labour market in the hardest jobs in mind since the rapporteur's party abolished the post-retirement pay, and I think that is an honest matter. But then I would just like to hear the rapporteur say how on earth the Left can still be a party that believes that they stand on the side of the workers in Denmark and represent the people who stand up every morning and go to work and toil and drag if they do not even want to give them the right to retire before the body says stop before you are worn out before you have to endure a long working day on painkillers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143815	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143817	We certainly think that if you are worn out and unable to work, you should have the opportunity to step out and go on a senior pension. This is the senior pension for which we have reached an agreement with a number of parties and which the Social Democratic Party has subsequently signed up to. In fact, we believe that it should be improved and we do not understand why it should not be improved until 2024. We think that it should be improved as soon as possible, because it would help people who are worn out. But what we are not concerned with, and what we do not think is sensible, is that healthy people who can help us all to continue to have a welfare society must now have the opportunity to step out earlier and retire just because we have been working for so many years and simply because we have been taking a certain education in contrast to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143900	Thank you. Service information: when the President gets up, it is because the speaking time has passed. There is a further brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201143909	Thank you. This year I actually had the 50th anniversary on the labour market, of which the 20 years were in gentle jobs: the 10 years here in the Folketing and the other 10 years in an office in a trade union movement. That's a bit hot to say, but that's just the way it is, because I was 30 years old at a shipyard where I was a cleaner and worked hard for 30 years. It's sitting on my body, and I can really feel it. When I get up in the morning and I don't have pain somewhere, I pinch my arm to see: Are you still alive, or what? And you know what, there's a lot of work that's insanely hard and where you get worn out but don't look worn out. There have been many years on the labour market, and the colleagues with whom I have worked for many years at Lindøværftet, I still come away because they are still my friends. And they would choose this, not because of the money, but because they can't stand it anymore. Hans Andersen does not think that it is reasonable for people to reach, for example. has been 50 years on the labour market, can go from a little earlier? Because even if they don't look worn out, they're worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144020	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144024	I certainly think that, if you are worn out and the rapporteur has been 50 years on the labour market, you should have the opportunity to step out in a dignified way. That is why we have established a senior pension scheme, so if you can work less than 15 hours a week, you have to step out on a senior pension. If you can work a little more, there are in fact also more opportunities to remain as part of the labour market. It could be a flex job. However, we do not support the fact that healthy people who can contribute to the well-being of all of us should be given the opportunity to retire early simply because they have taken a certain education rather than others who have taken an education where they start, what to say, to take an education and for example. I'm gonna get su. For then you cannot qualify for an early retirement pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144109	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144110	Well, sir. Hans Andersen, they don't start at the same time that I started when I was 14. There is, then, a significant difference between when you get out and what kind of work you have had. Honestly, I think so, and then Mr. Hans Andersen, that they can go to a senior pension. Do I look like I can get a senior pension even though I'm worn out? No, I don't, because there are some restrictions, and sir. Hans Andersen talks about flexible jobs. There are also restrictions. But here, when you feel it, you can retire as you deserve, and there are no restrictions on what needs to be done. And I think Mr. Hans Andersen, that they will go for the pay if they can earn much more? Life's not like that out there, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144157	But I cannot understand why it should be fair that, because one has started carpentering years ago, one can step out on a right to early retirement, and one may have had periods of unemployment during one's working life. That may well happen: 3, 4, 5 years, whereas if one has started as a social worker, but has started training where one has been given su, then one is not entitled to an early pension, even if one may well be worn out. We do not think this is fair, and that is why we do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144234	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144240	After all, today's debate started by discussing whether we were happy, and I can say that I am delighted both with this proposal and with this agreement and with every day that has passed since we got rid of the former bourgeois government. Because that is why we can stand here today and have a right to an early pension. I remember of someone on a Friday evening of 13 May 2011, when the then bourgeois government, together with the Radical Left, abolished the early retirement wage, and that was on top of the financial crisis, and we had just seen that the benefit period had been halved and so on. I would therefore like to ask: why is it always when there is a crisis in society, the unemployed who have to pay, and those who have been the longest in the labour market and have had the hardest working life that will pay the bill? Why is the left optics like that? Can you not at all see that some people are harmed by depriving them of the opportunities to resign earlier if they have had a long and hard working life? Where's that connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144345	We are, in fact, preoccupied with the recovery package, and so were we when we made the recovery package and changed the post-earning salary that we had to get through the crisis well. I can only note that the Social Democrats were sitting pretty still and popping their necks, and other parties then took that responsibility to bring Denmark through the crisis, and it was also about us changing the post-retirement pay. But it has not been abolished, which the Social Democratic Party likes to talk about, and it could be that one of the 400 000 people who actually pay for the early retirement pay got their coffee in their throats once in a while. Because it has not been abolished, although both Mr. Bjarne Laustsen and the Prime Minister like to talk about it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144432	Was it not a prerequisite, when the welfare settlement was made, that there should be an early retirement scheme? Yeah, I guess there was, but I'd like that, sir. Hans Andersen confirms that was what was there. Then I would say that the reason why you are really, really happy today is that the sucking cloth that Dansk Folkeparti got when you abolished the early retirement, by making a senior early retirement pension, hardly worked. Quite a few people were on it. When we came up with a proposal for a right to an early retirement pension, I should just like to promise that the former bourgeois government would come into being and say: we have to set up a system for those who can be searched. So now we have it on two legs: something for those who can be searched and something for those who are not going to stand with the hat in their hand but who have a right. It's a really good day when this is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144514	I respect the fact that the Social Democrats and Social Democrats are happy today. In other words, when you implement your policy, you have to be a dungeon if you are not happy. We simply do not agree that this is the right way to go, that is, with a right to early retirement, which is being financed in the first few years with the room for manoeuvre, which we cannot then spend on health and green conversion, and the following years by raising taxes and taxes, and we are opposed to that. That is the opposite of what we need. We need a job growth, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144550	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144556	Thank you. It has been mentioned a little that it is either retirement or senior pensions, and I would just like to say that it is not either - or - on the part of the Social Democrats; it is, in fact, both and. It goes on two legs. It is also mentioned a little that this is an extremely lucrative arrangement. We think it is a good arrangement and we think it is a fair arrangement, but there is no doubt that if you look at it economically, it is still more attractive to be out in the labour market, so that is not an argument in itself. But what you can say is that when we talk about this group, we can see that those who want this right are some who, compared to their lifetime, have fewer years to live in, and that's where our sense of justice comes in, because we think it's fair to somehow give this group that has exposed jobs an opportunity to have a dignified old age at an earlier stage, that you get the opportunity to make this choice. Does the Left not also think that there is some kind of reasonableness in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144654	We are certainly concerned that if you are worn out, you must have the opportunity to leave the labour market, and it is certainly the case that by far, by far, most of those who then choose to leave the labour market on, for example, the labour market. A senior pension is people who have had hard jobs. But it can be both physically hard jobs and psychologically hard jobs, and it can only be seen that the Social Democrats' right to early retirement alone is about the number of years on the labour market. There is no other assessment. It is the number of years on the labour market, including those spent on unemployment benefit, which must be counted. But whether it has been an industry that has been hard and hard, or a sector that has been less hard and hard, is not the decisive factor for social democracy. The crucial thing for the Social Democratic Party is obviously the only thing to say: we are now giving a right to an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144745	Well, that's where you could say that we have exactly the difference between the senior pension and this right to early retirement. Where senior pension is an assessment system where you must be ill as such, we are not necessarily talking here about being sick. But we can see from the statistics that the group it will affect is some who have a lower life expectancy and who are more vulnerable and thus perhaps have some worse years in relation to the pension. There we think there is reasonableness in the fact that there is a right here, but the Left obviously does not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144814	There are certainly many of those who have been employed in unskilled and skilled jobs, who actually live even longer than people who have long higher education behind them, and the average life expectancy has actually increased for all groups, including the unskilled and also the skilled. We welcome this, and then we must work to ensure that our working environment is such that we are not worn out, either by being a craftsman or by being employed in industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144843	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144848	Thank you. It took a while, but now Mr. Hans Andersen finally got that wool out of his mouth and started answering the questions asked by my good colleagues. Sir. Hans Andersen is very clear about the fact that he is not standing up there to ensure that the people who have had the hardest years on the labour market have the opportunity to withdraw worthily. On the contrary, he aims to be so worn out that you have to be so ill that you almost have to crawl from the labour market. He has spent his speaking time holding a defence speech for the banks instead of dealing with the people that this is about. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Hans Andersen's own voters. There was a study that showed that 65 per cent. of the Left's own voters thought that this proposal was a good idea; that it was a good idea to ensure that those who had had the hardest jobs and who had been longest in the labour market had the opportunity to withdraw worthily. What is the rapporteur's response to the electorate who voted on the Left in a belief that it would also help to raise that agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201144945	I certainly believe that I agree with the electorate of the Left that this is about helping people who are worn out. There we have a senior pension scheme, and we actually want to do even better and we want to make it better here and now and not wait until 2024. I think I am very much in agreement with the electorate of the Left, and I also believe that the electorate of the Left agrees with me that, if you are healthy, you should contribute to society, because that is how we can afford our common welfare, such as the United Kingdom. better health and better care for the elderly,
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145016	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145019	I am not sure that the Left voters I know agree with the rapporteur on that. Then I'd like to ask you something else. Sir. Hans Andersen sits in the Folketing, but let us now take as an example that he did not do it anymore and that he got another job. Mr. Hans Andersen then walk from the labour market from a good agreement, from a pension, from good colleagues, from an identity, from a workplace • because he got 13.500 DKK. a month? If he didn't want to, and if the answer isn't that he wants to, why is it that Mr. Hans Andersen believes that ordinary Danes who have hard physical work want to throw all that in the trash to go out on a transfer income? Why is it that Mr. Hans Andersen thinks they will?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145059	Because that is what the Minister for Employment has answered the questions I have asked. If you then believe that many people will find the right to early retirement attractive and more attractive than the government has estimated, then this scheme will almost double the cost. And history frightens us because it went from the post-retirement pay being estimated to be used by 17,000 to some 180,000 actually using the early retirement scheme. It was therefore very expensive, and even the Social Democrats, I think, had to admit at heart that it probably did not last in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145135	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Now there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145146	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying about the law here on early retirement that the Danish People's Party naturally supports that legislation. We have been involved in negotiating it ourselves, which is why we naturally support it. Nevertheless, I would like to begin by saying today, when we have heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen with tie on today's occasion I don't wear ties, but there are many others who wear ties that it's actually a sad day for a lot of people. It is also a sad day in this Parliament, for those who oppose this legislation are those who have not started themselves, as I am, early in the labour market, have had a hard working life and have been worn out. Those who speak against this legislation have never had an ordinary hard physical job. It may be that they have been to schools and have studied and had a job somewhere in a bank or as a lawyer or whatever, but they have never tried to be out and have a hard physical job and know what it is to come home and be worn out and in pain and to have to take pills. That is why it is a sad day that some people can argue against having an early retirement pension. Having said that, I would like to say that this early pension, of course, was not, as the Danish People's Party had wanted, and as many others had also wanted. This has something to do with the economy, because it's a certain number of billions that are going to be in this. We in the Danish People's Party wanted it first to be done up, 3 years before the retirement age was reached, then you should have assessed whether you had been long enough on the labour market, 42, 43, 44 years on the labour market, and then have been judged whether you were entitled to an early pension. We could not get that through, because it would be too expensive. It would have been more than twice as expensive in this respect. I am also sorry that those who entered the labour market at the age of 20 cannot take part in it. That is also something that costs money, but it may be that it can be regulated over time when we find out how it is used. Because I believe that there are no Danish workers who want to retire from the labour market and retire early unless it is strictly necessary. We have made a senior pension here in the Danish Parliament, which the Danish People's Party was behind, and it is a very good arrangement, also for those who cannot work longer than 15 hours now we have raised it to 18 hours, but we cannot get it through until 2024 and hopefully it will get through there. And thank you to the Left for saying, after all, that you are involved in that. But the group there is between those who can work the maximum. 18 hours, and then up to those who can work full-time have nothing. They're the ones on pills. And they may not be able to get flex jobs in this regard either, because if you can work perhaps 27-28 hours without problems, I find it hard to see that you can get flex jobs, because then they will say that you can get a part-time job. But there's a group in between, and when they get home, it's enough pills to take care of everyday life and maybe to go to work the next morning... many people start taking pills when they go to work. They must also be taken into account, and these are the ones we take into account in implementing this early retirement scheme. They are the ones who really need it. For the Danes they are so arranged that they want to be on the labour market, and there is no one, either slaughterhouse workers or carpenters or bricklayers, who says no to an annual salary of DKK 400,000-500,000, or whatever it is, may get a blacksmith DKK 500,000, because they have some special welding properties, or what do I know and say they want to change it out with early retirement. You only do that if it's strictly necessary. So you should not think that this is something the Danish worker craves. It's a lifeline that allows you to retire earlier because you have pains in your life and need to get away from the job you have. Of course, those who can be re-educated choose that. You don't just walk off and say no to a good salary of $400,000. to take early retirement. So the calculations that have been made can therefore be called into question. But it is for the benefit of those who can no longer, and we should therefore be glad that today we have legislation that has been put in place, and it is with the help of the Danish People's Party. And then we just have to accept that we have not been able to get everything through as we would have liked it to be in negotiations. But this is helping those who really need it, and it is a right that you can say that you want to have an early pension if you meet those requirements. And then you should not think that this is something that the Danish worker craves. The Danish People's Party is joining this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145646	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145652	Thank you. I think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted needs to calm down a little bit. Whatever job you have had throughout your life, you have the right to have an opinion about what we spend the tax money on in Denmark. It may be that you are not one of those who is going to receive the money, but everyone is going to pay for it, and that is why you have the right to have an opinion on it, and you should not put up with being sucked up by Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the platform because you have not had a particular job during your working life. So, sir... Bent Bøgsted quit. Then I'll ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted: What is really wrong with the reward? Why is it a problem that Arne should go on early retirement? Why should Arne be given an opportunity to give up his early retirement and, instead, maybe withdraw DKK 70,000, or how much it is, from his early retirement scheme and then instead get a free Arne pension? Why couldn't he just go on early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145745	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has the right to have the opinion that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has, and if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen does not think that I know anything about being on the labour market and that it is wrong when I say that many people have not tried to be on the labour market, so peace be with it. I will not complain about that at all. To this issue of early retirement: we just have to acknowledge that there, and I have to admit that the Danish People's Party has been included in the agreement to set off pension years where it ends up with many who do not really have anything left of that early retirement. This will be possible here, so you can avoid setting off and then replace it with an early pension and then get DKK 13,500. The Danish People's Party wanted that benefit to be at the same level as the senior pension. But then we couldn't get it through. But there is a possibility that there are some who can then say that they change the afterpaid and peace be with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145842	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145844	What should the whole high voice talk about those who have no other option but to go to work with pills in the blood that make sure they are not in pain? We have an early retirement scheme in Denmark. Half of those who are going to go to Arnepension come from the early retirement scheme. They can go on early retirement if they want to. But you've just decided that they need some more money. They have to withdraw their early retirement contributions because they don't use it. They just have to have that as a cash reward, and then they have to have a free Arne pension instead of which they have not contributed. After all, it is not at all about people not having the opportunity to leave early. It's just that you think they should get some more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145923	It's not about getting more money out. When you look at this legislation, it applies to everyone. And that's far, far from anyone who pays for an early retirement that's worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145934	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201145937	I'm sorry, sir. Bent Bøgsted, because I am one of those who has been on the labour market. I've been standing in the stables, I've been standing in the fields, I've been standing and CO2 and I am, because it's a scheme where you may have been some and twenty years on the labour market, and then you have the right to leave. After all, it is not about those who have been on the labour market for many years, because you can live a long life where you have gone to and from the labour market, have been 7 years on unemployment benefits, so 4 years on unemployment benefits and then 2 years on unemployment benefits in a long row, and then you can leave. That's half of it going off on early retirement. And when it is even a scheme that costs society money because you send the bill out to ordinary families of children out there who have to pay more, then that is why we say no to this. It has nothing to do with not wanting to help some of those who need it, some of those who have a hard job, because I therefore know where I come from with my background. It's because we can see that this doesn't help them, but it helps all sorts of other people, and then we'd much rather have put together something that had helped them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150044	This helps those who started working in the 1970s. That's where we're going back to. That's how old sir is. Luckily, Lars Boje Mathiesen didn't. I would have liked to have had the same age, because then maybe I would have been more fresh. But it's about those who started early on the job market at 15-16 years old, which I myself did start at 15 years old, came out and was trained blacksmith and has been through the hard life. That is where there have not been as many aids as there are today. They are the ones that benefit today. Not everyone pays for early retirement, and perhaps we could make some other arrangements, but then we need to look at it in a completely different way, and it costs money as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150127	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150128	But that's the problem. We could have made a better arrangement. But when DF joins with the rest of the socialists to spend the Danes' money on a scheme that means that if you have been some and twenty years on the labour market and spent most of your time outside the labour market by having been on unemployment benefits, you will also have the right to take more of other people's money here. That's where the problem lies. I am sure that if the Danish People's Party had joined the bourgeois to make a solution that exactly helped these people who have been on the labour market for so many years and who go to work and need pills to go to work, then there would have been full support for you to sit down and make such an agreement. But DF has chosen to go with Enhedslisten and SF to do this. And yes, the bill ends with the Danes, and then it has nothing to do with whether you are really worn out, but it's just about how many years you've been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150216	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150217	After all, the bill lies with those who have been the longest in the labour market, those who are worn out today, those who go home and have pain in their bodies. That's who the bill is with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150238	Yeah, it's like you have to start with a comment about your tie, but I didn't just wear one of those, not a shirt or a nice suit, but just such an ordinary sweater. Well, it's not a secret that the Radical Left wasn't part of the early withdrawal agreement. We find it quite problematic that a right to early retirement should be granted, which is based solely on seniority in the labour market. And this is problematic for a number of reasons, but yes, among other things. It is also because thousands of healthy, capable people are pulled out of the labour market early. Because that means that it is at the expense of something else; it could be the welfare of our children, the green transition or other important priorities. And then we are just about it, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said in his rapporteur's speech that this is a question of politics, and that is what society we want to be. We simply do not believe in the Radical Left that seniors can be spared in the labour market. We need labour and we also need grey gold. And the experience of, for example, the early retirement scheme shows that more than expected people are using a right that is given to them. This could also be the case with the right to an early retirement pension. And when I then state this position, i.e. that healthy people should not have a right to withdraw earlier, I sometimes experience being shot in the shoes, that I and my party should not withdraw under sick and worn-out citizens. I mentioned this in a question debate last week and I say it again here again: we in the Radical Left care about people who have not health to remain in employment. And that's why we're insanely proud, and we'd like to grow further. And it is not because I am standing here bitterly, so I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate colleagues in the Social Democratic Party, in particular, who have succeeded in getting their policies through. This then means that in the Radical Left we must live up to our role as a responsible support party and perhaps help to achieve the phrase of the understanding paper on structural employment. But we are so happy to do so. Radical Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150527	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150531	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that there are many people who will go to Arnepension to DKr 13 500 if they have a monthly salary of DKr 25-30,000. Does the rapporteur think they will be enriched by this? I do not believe that, but does the rapporteur believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150553	I refer, of course, to the experience gained in the case of early retirement, where there was an expectation of how many people would retire when they were given a right. And there were actually many more than expected. And I am just saying in all silence that this could also happen here, and then we would actually have a bigger problem than we thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150612	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150613	At the time it was right, before the Radicals helped to destroy it was a much higher amount, and there were also many others who, of course, went on early retirement. However, the people who have been on the labour market for many years and are now seeking Arnepension have had a much higher salary. I just have to say, I don't think it's attractive. It is only because they are worn out and only because they are worn out and because they have ruined the reward. So I'm happy about it today. I also wear ties today; I don't usually wear ties. I am glad of that, because it is a party day, including for the old colleagues with whom I worked for many years out at Odense Staalskibsværft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150701	But when it comes to worn-out, it is exactly what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there is a senior pension that actually gives a right to retire 6 years early. And there you are judged on health, not on seniority, and that is how it should be, at least with my glasses, if you sincerely believe that it is wear and tear that is the criterion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150724	So I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201150732	I understand so well that the Social Democrats mark today as a party day, including in your dress. We're not left with that in the SF. Every citizen must have fair access to some good years as seniors. It's the welfare of ordinary people. The new pension is not only due to the parties behind the reform. At least as much credit is due to the tens of thousands of professionals who insisted that this matter be resolved. The right to early retirement is justice and the SF is enthusiastic about helping to add new rights to hard-working citizens. However, just now in this Chamber, under the next item, we are discussing another draft law which raises the pensionable age. This is a little like how we are happy to fill water in the bathtub, but at the same time we are a little like this on the stopper of the drain so that the water runs out again. Many fear that they can't last years at work. Thanks for the effort, old man, says society and signs with insecurity and inequality. Many years of hard physical work wear on the body are prized with extremely unequal access to the years as senior. It's just not okay. The senior years reinforce the inequality that already exists in working life. If you've had a hard working life, you'll have some tough years as a senior. But society should instead take proper care of those citizens who, through a long working life, have worn down physically or mentally. That's why this new early retirement law is so badly needed. Many worn-out citizens are desperately looking for emergency exits to some last decent years at work, and in order to achieve justice, the elevator against some worthy senior years for all of us must stop on some more floors. I also see that FH writes: FH supports the demand for long-term seniority in the labour market, which targets the scheme to those groups who have entered the labour market early and who, after a long working life, need to retire. We cannot be surprised that most of the right and the Radical Left, when it comes to the conditions for ordinary people, quickly gets cold in the bodily part that is highest when you pick strawberries. However, the abolition of the post-retirement wage has major consequences, and the current rules on early retirement do not save enough. In this context, SF makes a number of demands which place citizens more strongly on the system when it comes to resource development and the granting of early retirement. It is time for hard-working workers to have access to several good years in senior life. That is why I can also see that Blik & Rør has sent us a hearing answer saying that Blik & Rør considers this bill to be a necessary first step towards creating a more socially equitable pension system. And that's how you have to see it, because this is the first but important step to go down that road. In order to gain more equality in access to dignified years as a senior, we need to do much more in the past. It must be made easier and economically attractive to change trades and industries through better opportunities for adult, continuing training. In this way we will prevent and reduce the one-sided wear and tear. It must be through a healthy and safe working environment that we must make it possible to actually work up to retirement age. This law is so much awaited with joy, but it cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151204	Thank you. I should like to know whether the rapporteur can recognise the research carried out at the Institute for Public Health and Professor Knud Juel, who notes that between 60% and 70% of the population have been affected. the difference in life expectancy between people is due to smoking and alcohol • not the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151226-2	This is something that is discussed very much, but it doesn't change anything about it, i.e. at 30-year-old unskilled you have 7.8 years shorter lifespan than the 30-year-old with a long higher education. So that doesn't change the outcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151243	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151245	No, but it should change the rhetoric where it is said that when you have a good life afterwards, when you retire, it's about what work you had. It's also about what kind of work you've done, but compared to this research, 60 to 70 percent. This is because of smoking and alcohol. In addition, there are such things as genes and overweight, and then there is also a lot that is about work. And this is the nuance that I think is missing from the SF when you say that the years you can have when you retire depend on what work you have had. But there is no evidence of that. So I would like you to recognise the research that is actually in this area, rather than just making up your own reality about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151324	I simply do not believe that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is aware of what bill we are dealing with at all. We are not dealing with a bill dealing with lifestyle changes or with the type of life you have lived. In fact, this bill only tackles one challenge: a very, very important challenge: to create justice, so that there is a fair match between when you enter the labour market and when you step out, i.e. the number of years: justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151350	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151357	Thank you. See, I can't swing up to these Leif Lahn Jensenian exciting heights over the proposal, and I never wear a tie, by the way. However, I would like to say that yes, the draft law on early retirement includes an improvement and a small step on the way to a dignified withdrawal for people who have been on the labour market throughout their youth and throughout their adult lives. And we very much appreciate that it is based on approximately objective criteria. And yes, this is the first time since the change of system in 2001 that there are proposals for improvement in relation to people in the ordinary pulverising labour market. So far, so good. However, the draft law is somewhat inadequate, it is too frugal and too modest to ensure a dignified withdrawal and fill the gap that arose when the post-retirement pay was so badly reduced as it de facto did in 2011. The good intentions of the draft law will be strongly opposed by the next issue on the agenda, and we will again talk about how the decision on a higher retirement age already undermines the one-year regime. Looking at the many people who work in areas covered by e.g. 3F, FOA and NNF, you can see that they have to leave the labour market because of wear and tear when they are in the early 60s. These people are not being helped by this early retirement proposal. If the proposal really were to benefit the employees who need it, the requirements of labour market independence should be reduced to 40 years, and this had to be met as early as the early retirement period. And the bill should be amended so that people with short or medium-term higher education were also entitled to the early retirement pension. A nurse, for example, will be very difficult to get under this scheme. If it were up to me, the stair model should be abolished and instead there should be a right to a minimum of three years of early retirement with a benefit at the level of the highest rate of benefit. This would be approximately equivalent to what the early retirement pay could offer, if necessary, to the possibility of reintroducing the post-retirement wage. And the fact that the court counts for one year at a time makes some very sharp distinctions between those who are equal on one side and those who are just on the other side, with the accuracy of three decimal places. Why couldn't you count it for months? L 104 is actually a very comprehensive legislative proposal. It is actually a completely new law that is being stuffed into the social pension law. Consideration should be given to drawing up a separate law on early retirement. It is also a rather complicated bill. In particular, the rules on the calculation of industrial relations and labour market links are quite difficult. Like a number of trade unions and organisations, we foresee that it may be extremely difficult to obtain evidence from the labour market from the 70s and 80s, and in several cases it will not be available. There we are satisfied that it can be documented by means of a cashier's membership. It's an easy solution. However, when an education is to be approved, a bill of employment or a certificate of formal qualifications should be sufficient and continuing training before the age of 40 should also be taken into account as seniority. It can be difficult for citizens to see through the demand for linking the labour market. This could then lead to situations where citizens will lose the right to early retirement, for example. because of inattentiveness in relation to some very complicated rules. We believe that the minimum wage limit of DKK 24,000. The percentage of early retirement is too low per year and the percentage of early retirement is 64 per cent. is too tall. In this case, the same rules could be applied as are known from the reduction of the pension supplement for the old-age pension. Since this is a low level of benefit at the level of the national pension, we believe that it would be reasonable for early pension recipients also to be entitled to an old-age check and health allowance. We support the Institute for Human Rights in that the residence requirement for refugees should be changed so that residence in the country of origin is treated as residence in Denmark. This means that the state of law before 2011 must be re-established in that area. We do not disagree that the early retirement proposal represents an improvement, and that is why, despite all the criticisms, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151848	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201151856	Thank you, President. The Government proposes with this bill that a new right be introduced for those who have been the longest in the labour market so that they are entitled to a previous pension. I would like to start by saying that I can understand if the worn-out Danes feel a little cheated because they were promised a right to early retirement. The only problem is that this proposal has nothing to do with wear and tear. The truth is that you cannot get an early pension at all because you are worn out; you can get it if you start early in the labour market, and that is something quite different. There is something wrong when, as a factory worker who has worked 40 hours a week for 40 years, you cannot be entitled to an early retirement pension, while an office worker who has worked the equivalent of 21 full-time years must be able to retire earlier. It merely makes the proposal even more far-fetched, that we already have a system for those who are worn out who work, namely the senior pension. You can actually get it because you're worn out, unlike Arnepensionen. And the senior pension has actually turned out to work: over 90%. of those who seek, they get it. It's almost a right, but you have to search first. In connection with the new Arne transfer income, the government has already opened the way to extending the senior pension, and that says everything. It is a recognition by the government that the senior pension is working. But an essential condition for us to have a welfare society that we all appreciate is that we work if we can. We must not start pulling healthy people out of the labour market prematurely. Social democracy often speaks of right and duty, but there is not much duty left in this, and it is a dangerous slippery path. Because when you look at the financial consequences of this agreement, they're worryingly big. We are talking about a billion-dollar agreement, which costs nearly 10 000 jobs, despite the fact that this government's understanding paper states that initiatives to reduce employment are matched by other, but not necessarily simultaneous, measures which at least increase employment accordingly. And these are not many similar initiatives that the government has played out with. It is also strange that, while we are making aid packages and agreements on the recovery of the economy, as we are doing at the moment, we are making an agreement such as this one that puts the economy in reverse. The Conservative People's Party will boost Danish economy and have a fair pension policy. That is why we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152204	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152210	I noticed that the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, was not present. Naser Khader said there's not a lot of duty in this. I think it is a bit arrogant to say to people who have worked for 44 years that they have not done their duty. That's what we're talking about. It is people who have worked hard since they were very young who now have a right to retire early. But I have to ask you something completely different. I have never doubted what Conservatives meant; I have been very, very doubtful about what the Left meant, and I actually still think I am. I think that Mr. Hans Andersen was so pretty clear, but still it was difficult. When, at some point, and hopefully for a long time, we have a Left Government, will Conservatives make demands on that government to try to roll this back to support that government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152256	We are not in favour of Arnepensionen, and that will be our policy in relation to a future government too, but it will require a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152304	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152304-2	But will it be a requirement to support a Left Government to try to get this removed, as it is such an important matter for Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152314	I'm not in charge. I'm not negotiating a government basis. It's management that does it. However, our starting point is that we are opposed to this new transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152327	The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152330	While the rest of us are concerned about creating fairness between when you enter the labour market and when you go out, we saw the chairman of the Conservatives, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, last week pronounce: Arne does not have to retire early, he has to work anymore. Is it not the most bell-clear and the classes kicking down towards people who have had a long and hard working life? Is the demand for Arne to work more really the answer to people who have been for over 40 years at work, and is that really the answer to people who make the working day hang together by eating painkillers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152407-2	It is to show the community mind to say that if people can work, they must keep working. If you are worn out, you have different arrangements. The senior pension, which came into force on 1 January this year, is excellent. There are thousands of people who have applied for and received a senior pension. It's targeted people who are worn out. If you're worn out, of course you shouldn't work. But if you can, you have to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152434	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152435	So zero fairness, no thoughts at all, towards that there could be an unreasonableness in that if you start early, you are also allowed to go from a little earlier. I understand from the rapporteur, who repeatedly says that the Conservatives will not withdraw healthy people from the labour market. What about the many people with high wages and good working life who decide for themselves when they retire because they have the money for it? Mr. Does Khader also want them to stay on the job like that, or is it only because they can stand up for these people while, by the way, they are getting in trouble on their way out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152513	If you want to withdraw from the labour market, even if you can still work and do it on your own account, then I do not feel sorry for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152521	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152524	I actually have a little question of principle. Now the Enhedslisten is very much in favour of objective criteria in this case as to when to withdraw, but why is the birth year really a better criterion than the number of years on the labour market? It may be just as right to say to someone who has been born a certain year and therefore reaches retirement age when, for example, he or she has reached retirement age. is 68 years old that he or she must also stay if he or she is well. Why is the birth year more weighty than the number of years on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152558	This is something we have agreed on a long time ago, in other words, that you will eventually have to go to a retirement pension. Then we have made a welfare agreement in 2006 to increase age and to discuss this in a few years' time. So that is something we have agreed on politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152623	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb? No. The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152630	I just have to arrest the logic of this last one, namely that we have agreed that it is age. But in addition to age, being healthy and bodied is suddenly becoming a completely different criterion. The logic should then be that everyone who is healthy and bodied would have to work until they have become ill, and then they could be allowed to retire. But we have chosen not to have a society that has been set up in this way. What you can say about this is that we're not just talking about a performance you have to be worn out to get. We're talking about a group that is skilled and unskilled and that has a life span shorter than most people in this society. We will give them the opportunity to have a few more years of retirement and an opportunity to retire earlier. And as I mentioned earlier, it is not a lucrative arrangement, but a fair one that is actually present. But I understand from what the Conservatives have said that this must be abolished. That must then mean, and that is my question, that it is a requirement for a possible future bourgeois government to abolish this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152736-2	I have no mandate to stand here and negotiate a government basis for a future government. Our policy is that we are against Arnepensionen. If you are worn out, there are many schemes. If you can work a little, there are also arrangements there. We do not think this is necessary, and the introduction of a second transfer income is also a burden on the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152802	The next brief remark is for Mr. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152806	Thank you. I think I will put it nicely: I do not think the rapporteur has been moving around in reality, where those people are and where I have been going for over 30 years until 20 years ago. Because these people wouldn't go home if it was that they could keep working. These people, too, do not stand at a senior pension or a flexible job, but have been there for many years because they started early in the labour market, and because they do not live as long as others do as the highly educated do, they want to go home and have a good life, a good senior life with their children and grandchildren. Does the rapporteur believe that for DKr 13 500? do you want to go home when you have been used to making a lot more money, but not throughout your life, because you do not have a pension scheme today, where you have started saving from childhood? It's only a lot later that you've saved up. So does the rapporteur believe that they will go home for DKr 13 500 when they have not been the highest paid at all throughout their working life?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152915	Two things. First of all, with regard to reality: that is, the left does not have a patent on reality. I have a working background myself, my father was an unskilled guest worker who worked at various factories. I know how he got home tired from work, so I don't need to be taught about that. That's one thing. On the second point: yes, I think there are some who, even if they are not sick, will say yes to Arnepensionen, because that shows the lessons learned from the early retirement. Few of those who have paid early retirement are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152957	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201152957-2	I would just like to say that it did not sound that way from the platform, that is to say that the rapporteur has been out in reality. However, I would like to say in return that I believe that most people would like to have a working life, they would like to be at work as long as they can at all, there are just some who cannot because they came early into the labour market and I hope that this scheme will help those people. But I would like to conclude by asking: will the rapporteur make it a requirement to abolish this system if the Conservatives come into government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153039	So, in relation to how worn out you are, I would say that there are different schemes in advance there are flex jobs, there are early retirement, there are senior pensions, there are quite a few different schemes, and they can be used in advance, so there is no need for another scheme. And in relation to whether we want to abolish this scheme, I would like to say again: I do not have a mandate to negotiate a government basis, but our position is that we are against Arnepensionen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153105	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is... Bent Bøgsted just got in touch. So if you'll excuse me, sir. Naser Khader get back on the platform. There are two brief comments to be made to Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153129	I am very sorry, President, because it was what the rapporteur said at the end that caused me to press the button. It is not the President's fault; it is the rapporteur's fault. I hope that Mr. Naser Khader is aware that the examples with senior pension, early retirement, flexible jobs are not suitable for this group here, because senior pension, early retirement and flexible jobs require that you have a very poor working capacity, even lower than that of those at early retirement. It's a special group that falls between two chairs, which this helps, and there the other systems can't be used, because then the ability to work has to be further down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153210-2	I simply disagree. The arrangements we currently have, that is to say before Arnepensionen, can be used in relation to the amount of work you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153225	Sir. Bent Bøgsted for another brief remark? Then it was just one brief comment. So I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur and welcome the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, Mr Conservatives. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153231	Thank you. Arnepensionen: I feel the way with Arnepensionen that I see it as if the diagnosis was right in the sense, but that the operation went wrong and the patient died. Because I am one of those who knows and fully recognize that there is a problem out there. I have seen them, I have talked to them, worked with them, lived with them, so it would be a mistake not to recognise that there are people out there who have to eat painkillers to go to work, people who are actually worn out and who fall between the chairs in the fine-meshed system that has been set up in here from the Folketing and where year by year they reform but still have not solved it. The only problem is that what you came out with in my optics doesn't solve it and at the same time damage. If you can make a scheme where someone with a couple or twenty years in the labour market can actually be entitled to this benefit, then it is not screwed up properly, and that is the reality. Someone may have had very, very many years on unemployment benefits because in this system you choose to say that being on unemployment benefits is part of being on the labour market. But I have to say straight out of the bag that you do not get worn down in the same way by being on the daily allowance as you do by standing on a factory floor. You simply don't. Moreover, this system is screwed up so that it is absolutely not about being worn out, but it is about when you entered the labour market, and that is not what was intended. The intention was to give a right to worn out. There are people here who are not worn out at all who can have the right to leave. Then we have to look at this scheme and say that at first it's a very high percentage, and then it drops to about half of the people who go to this scheme actually just comes from another system where they've left the labour market, on pre-retirement pay. So there's a whole series of factors in this system that's just not good enough. When we look at the financing part, we should have looked at how this should be financed without sending out a bill to ordinary citizens, families with children, and that is what we are doing here by sending an extra bill to the banks. When we make a bill in here that sends the bill to the banks, the bill often says that the bill is expected to be passed on to the citizens, and the idea that it shouldn't happen all of a sudden about this is horriblely naive. Of course, this bill will be passed on, and when you add it together, we will have an arrangement that we cannot and will not vote for in New Citizens. We would have liked to have addressed the problem, which is real, but that a good bourgeois solution had been found for it, and it has not been done in this case, and the government has chosen to do it together with the Socialists in the Folketing. We think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153623	I think I can actually accuse New Citizens of not wanting to help these people at all. For New Citizens are doing everything they can to talk this down, and it is not right with the benefits. You make it sound like they've been on cash benefits for a lot of years. The vast majority of those eligible have less than three years of unemployment. So I think you should not talk it down, and then you might as well say it as it is: we would rather the banks, and we would not want the worn out. Why don't you just say it like it is? It's understandable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153658	Now, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen may have apologized, because he has not been in the negotiating room, where we have been sitting with the Minister, where we have been told repeatedly that we recognise that there is a problem and that we would actually like to help solve that problem. So I just want to say that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is sorry, but he can talk to his minister, and then he will get another message.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153724	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153725	But that's just not what I heard here at the platform, and that's not what all the people who sit out there and are worn out around Denmark have. They haven't been in the room either. So I just think it's nice to know, do you want something for the worn out or don't you? And how do New Citizens intend to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153740-2	But that's the whole point: this bill has nothing to do with worn-out, because there's no requirement for you to be worn out in order for you to do so. Well, it's rank manipulation to call this a draft law worn out. If you wanted to do so, you should have made a scheme that would benefit worn out, which has been 39 years on the labour market, people who have been 38 years on the labour market, had plenty of work, night work, shifts, completely worn out. Then you should have made a scheme that would help them. But that has not been done here, and that responsibility falls solely on Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153821	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153822	- Sir... Does Lars Boje Mathiesen not somehow help to confirm that this scheme, which we are now going to introduce, is going to primarily address unskilled and skilled people that when we look at people with long-term education, there is virtually no one coming under this scheme? It is a question of slaughterhouse workers, it is a question of craftsmen, it is a question of sosus. That, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen then somewhere indicates that the people are not more exposed in their jobs than everyone else is; they actually have the same degree of wear and tear as everyone else. Is that what Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153910	I usually talk quite clearly. I did the same in my rapporteur's speech. We in the New Citizens recognise that there is a problem with worn-out. I even said that I live with them, I have talked to them, I have worked with them. How the rapporteur can suddenly think that I do not recognise it, I do not know. I have just said this in my rapporteur's speech. I do not know if you have gotten some paper from some spin doctors with what to say. But you should have listened to what I said in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153941	A second brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201153943	I heard very well what was said. The problem is that it was said that this is not directed at the worn out. I think I've just been trying to document who's going to take advantage of this scheme... that it's primarily some people in job functions where we're wearing out. So it's mainly worn out that's gonna take advantage of this scheme. That does not mean that everyone is. But the main focus of this scheme is actually on the job functions where you're worn out. I'm just hearing it's something else, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says in his opening speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154014	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154014-2	But it is because it is not factually correct. To begin with, we are not up to 70%, which comes from the early retirement scheme, and once the scheme has been fully introduced, half of it comes from the early retirement scheme to this scheme. After all, it is people who have already left the labour market. So what you're saying is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154033	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154041	Thank you. We in Denmark have different arrangements for people who are physically or mentally unable to engage in the labour market, including if you have been harmed by your work in a way, so that you can say that you are worn out and have disability. We have an early retirement pension, we now have a senior pension, we have flexible jobs. These schemes are offered to people who are not able to do a full-time job or at all. But basically, we shouldn't be wearing out. It should not be the case that you go to work and then get hurt by it in a way that does not allow you to work in the future. In particular, it is the responsibility of the social partners to ensure that there are no specific sectors where work is in a way that will not be able to do that work for a long period of time without being harmed by it. It is also for the individual himself, if he is in a job function, where he can see that he is suffering from health and that he will probably not be able to continue a full working life without being harmed by it, to consider finding another job before being harmed by it. I know that people who do not work physically also have an experience that if it is too hard for them mentally to be at work, then you can find a way of changing professions to something else. There are both teachers and educators and even politicians who have stopped in the job or job they had before, because it was too grueling, and that should be done. It should not be the case in Denmark that we say that there is one irreversible path if you have certain jobs, and that is that you work until you are injured by it. You shouldn't do that. This scheme, which we are discussing now, the retirement pension for Arne, is on top of what we already have, which is an early retirement scheme. The early retirement scheme is an offer that you can retire even if you are not worn out. Arne had an opportunity and has an opportunity to go on early retirement, but the red majority in the Folketing did not think that was good enough for Arne. Arne has to have an Arne pension, which he can retire on. He'll get more money out of that. The Liberal Alliance won't support this bill. We do not think that this is the right thing to do, and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154349	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154354	Thank you. I think it was quite a speech made by the rapporteur, that it is people themselves who have to find another job if they are worn out along the way or feel that they are worn out along the way. It's a fantastic dream to stand on the platform, but it's something completely different out there in real life. So I would like to say to the rapporteur: that is not the way it is going. We all want you not to get worn out on your job. That's just not what's going on. And if the dream was to be lived out, there were plenty of jobs that could not be done, for everything is not invented yet, so that no human being is worn out. Then I would also like to ask the rapporteur about the post-retirement pay, which the rapporteur himself probably helped to destroy and to hold on to is excellent, but it is no longer. It has been destroyed by the bourgeois parties. I would therefore also like to ask the rapporteur once again what I have done to the others: does the rapporteur believe that the DKr 13 500? is a salary on which they can live well and that they want to go home and enjoy themselves for DKK 13,500. a month? No, they go home because they have some scars from the work they've been doing. They may not look worn out, but they have some scars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154520	I think that there are some professions out there where employers and employees have agreed on pay conditions that act as if they are not conducive to having a full working life in that sector. I'd like to ask Mr. Jan Johansen, when he is given the floor the second time, whether he disagrees with the fact that if you are piece-paid to lay bricks on bricks, or if you are piece-paid in a slaughterhouse as a slaughterhouse worker, or if you are piece-paid to put plasterboards up, it is an ideal way of working if you want to be on the labour market for 40-45 years. Or is there something wrong with the way you work, where you want to have a really high salary for a few years, but who over a long period of time suffers from your health? Should we, as an employee, and should the employees' organizations themselves do something about this, or is it only the task of the taxpayers to cover the bill for the way in which they work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154616	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154617	I am well aware that it is hard to be out at work, to be a carpenter or to be a butcher, because the chords make you work hard to make some money, to be competitive. Once again, however, I know that the rapporteur's party is in favour of having so much foreign labour in this country, which is helping to dump labour prices, on working hours. So would the rapporteur say that it is not possible to simply demand that we do not have to work in this way, but that we slow down, because then we are not competitive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154655-2	If you think that in certain sectors you can only work in some ways, and if employees and employers in certain sectors think that you can only work there in ways that make you wear out, you also have to find out in those sectors how to take care of people • what work you can give people after 20-30 years if you think it is necessary to stop early. The fact that you only earn money for a few years, when you wear out your health, and then you think that it is the taxpayers' job to cover that you can no longer work is not something that we are in favour of in the Liberal Alliance, but the Socialists seem to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154733	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201154741	Thank you. In the alternative, of course, we are pleased that a group of people can now withdraw from the labour market earlier. It is they who have worked the longest, and it is they who have dragged the tongue most. A lot of people are hurt. Some are worn out. Others aren't. In this way it is almost a kind of citizen's salary that you can get for a period of your life as a thank you for having taken a heavy and long haul for the rest of society. We think that in the alternative is nice. We have always been in favour of the right to early retirement. In fact, on this platform, I stood back in 2015 and advocated the German model for early retirement, which runs according to the same principles and works very well in Germany. That is why it is also a good day for the alternative. But now, when we were the first party to mention the right to early retirement in this Chamber, the Minister for Employment must listen for a moment, and now, when we were the first party in the negotiations on this bill in the Ministry of Employment, who said that we are ready to support this without taking us dearly paid to do the right thing, we are surprised that we suddenly got out of the negotiations and had to read in the paper that the proposal had a unified majority. It was a strange experience, which I hope the Minister will put a few words on when he comes to the floor; the Minister may also comment on whether the alternative is welcome to fully join this agreement. However, I have to say that the alternative will vote in favour regardless. After all, we are not voting against something that we have been marketing for years, but we are not wearing ties and we do not have those big smiles. We also believe that the need for this proposal shows that there is something fundamentally wrong with the structure of our society. The proposal is what we call a repair proposal in the alternative. There are many proposals that show that we live in a repair society. We are really repairing the fact that people cannot stand to live in what we call a welfare society. In this example, they can't stand to be in the labour market. The proposal is just one of many repair proposals that we are working on here in the Folketing, and there are many repair proposals that we are dealing with politically. These may be other proposals for pension schemes for worn-out. It is also a repair proposal when the Socialists want more coercive measures because we are unable to support the vulnerable families well. It is a repair proposal when some people want to introduce intensive camera surveillance on the streets, and they want us not to kick each other into the nightlife. It is a repair proposal when we introduce psychological assistance for young people who are more and more difficult to cope with the performance race and the zero error culture in the country's schools and education. All this, including withdrawal, which we are talking about today, is what we call repair legislation, which is necessary because a great many Danes are miserable in the hamster wheel, in the endless growth culture, in stress and in the rush and performance race. We need to introduce repair proposals because the government does not have the courage to make some of the structural changes that solve the underlying problems, which send us all into the hamster wheel. It may be reduced working hours that could change those structures. It could be a citizen's salary. It may be that we base our lives less on material consumption and perhaps more on being with our children or our family or our friends or being out in nature or the things that interest us. It may be many other proposals that are working to adjust the underlying structures that cause all these problems that we have to repair all the time. The alternative is looking forward to having a government that dares to change some of the basic structures and create more well-being and quality of life in our societies, both in the labour market and elsewhere, in climate, environment, nature for that matter. While we wait, we would like to help some of those who have worked the longest and dragged the heaviest. After all, it is not their fault that the government does not dare to change basically the structures that are wearing people down in the labour market. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155154	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155159	It is just because I have to talk about it when people from the left refer to having a job as a hamster wheel. It's not just the alternative that does it. Others on the left do so regularly, and the Socialists believe that every full-time job is to work hard. A hamster wheel is one of those things that just turns around for no good in the world. The hamster goes in there because it thinks it's fun or for exercise. I don't know why it does it. Work is something in which we produce the prerequisites for one to exist as a human being, and the fact that we all go to work produces the prerequisites for us to exist as a society. Then Mr. Torsten Gejl doesn't in future stop referring to going to work as going in a hamster wheel?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155245-2	Not at all. The rapporteur does not need to lecture me on work. I've been working for 30 years. We use the hamster wheel when we just run stronger and stronger to support the black growth culture, which the Liberal Alliance among others. stand for where we produce and produce without thinking about whether the people who are in society can even endure living there, plus that we do not care what consequences it has for nature and the environment and climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155313	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155316	So it is really something strange about the left's hatred for work. I think so, but it is best expressed when the alternative refers to work as a hamster wheel, because a hamster wheel does nothing, but it actually does go to work. It provides food on the table for yourself, for those you support, and it makes the whole society richer. But it is very revealing when you use the term hamster wheels from the left to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155343	The rapporteur is not going to lecture me on work. I started as a newspaper messenger. I used to be a bottle boy. I've been a fisherman. I've been a bartender. I've had a lot of jobs. I have also been an entrepreneur and started businesses myself. I know the value of work, and I work happily, and sometimes I work too long. So when I use the word hamster wheel, it is not for not recognizing work, so it is to say that there are many of us who run really, really fast to contribute to a society that we actually less and less believe in, because it does not make room for what is important in life and because it destroys climate, nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155420	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155424	If we follow the thinking of the Alternative on this issue and the private one, for example. must produce 20%. less and therefore not run so fast, that means that there will be 20 per cent. less production and a 20% increase in production. less into the Treasury I know that you have a notion that you will work more and that it gives the same thing, but let us just say that we recognise the economists, among other things. the quite normal economists we have over in the Ministry of Finance who say that is not true. So what is it that the state is not supposed to do? I myself am in favour of the state being smaller, but I have not really heard the alternative's offer of what it is that we should not use tax dollars on. That's what I'm curious about. I think it's an exciting thought, and I would like to hear what it is that you don't need tax dollars on. Are you willing to reduce the state, or should those who are then in the labour market just pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155520	The alternative has never said that we must reduce production by 20%. If the rapporteur wants to set up such a type of scenario, then the rapporteur himself must answer the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155534	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155535	I hope that the rapporteur recognises that if you run slower and produce fewer goods, you also earn less money in companies, which means that companies pay less taxes to the state, which then has less tax money to spend on welfare benefits and other things. That is how the basic economy is connected, too, for the alternative. That is why I ask: when the state does not get as many tax dollars into it, unless one is willing to raise the tax for those who then still work away... what is it that is not to be spent on in public?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155610-2	I can hear that the rapporteur has not calculated what is involved in reducing working time, in other words that, if we exchange wage increases for working time, we can actually introduce a 30-hour week in the course of the 20-year period without costing society extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155627	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from IA, and that is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155635	Thank you very much. A lot has been said about Arne today, and in many ways Arne is also the picture of the people who may need to retire early. It is also some stories that have reached Greenland. And it could also be relevant to anyone other than Arne... it could be Malik, or it could be Aviaja. On the part of the IA, we have followed the debate. We have also supported the bill, and we have done so from the start. And I also know, Naalaksuisut, the Greenland Government, supports this bill. After all, up to a quarter of all people born in Greenland live in Denmark today. We also know that there are a great many who come from Denmark who have been in Greenland and earned the right to a pension there and who have put a great many of their years of work in Greenland. We would like to thank the government and we would also like to thank the employment rapporteurs involved for the legislative proposal in place. We know that there are not many people in Greenland who pay for ATP, so we also think it is good that it can be earned in another way, i.e. this right to early retirement. It is a very technical bill, and that is why we also share Enhedslisten's concern about this with documentation back to the 1970s for where you have worked, and we would also like to remind you that you cannot be a member of an unemployment fund in Greenland. So there are a lot of technical subtleties which we are at least aware of, and it may be that we are asking the Minister a technical question or two in connection with the legislative proposal. With these words, we would like to thank you for the bill and thank you for the fact that the length of service in Greenland is also included in terms of earning the right to early retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And so all the rapporteurs of the parties have spoken, and that is why it is the Minister for Employment's turn. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201155850	Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for their comments, both to those who have chosen to wear ties on today's occasion, and also to the comments of the rapporteurs who either declare themselves to be totally or partially opposed to the proposal. Of course, there must also be room for this. I also think that I would like to begin by thanking all those who have been involved in this discussion for a very long time. It is no secret that, from the point of view of the government and also of the Social Democratic Party, this has had a long way to go. The truth is that since the mid-1990s we have been discussing more or less constantly under what conditions and conditions Danes with a hard and long working life can be allowed to retire. What has happened not only in Denmark, but in the whole of Western Europe over the last 5-8 years is that the debate on a more differentiated need for withdrawal has also moved to Denmark, and that is, of course, all the basis for the discussion that has come here. And there are some who have taken the lead in that discussion. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen mentioned some of them, e.g. the slaughterhouse workers. against the background of the totally unfair malting that took place, of the post-retirement pay back on top of the financial crisis. So, with that in mind, of course, I am grateful for the good treatment of the draft law on a new entitlement to early retirement. With the agreement, we are helping thousands of people in our labour market. We provide them with improved withdrawal opportunities, which play a crucial role in a secure future. The introduction of early retirement is about fairness, but it is also about financial responsibility, because early retirement helps to maintain the general and broad support of the population for the life expectancy indexing of retirement age as we live longer. The right to an early pension takes into account the fact that not everyone is able to work until they reach the age of retirement. People have different working lives, some more grueling than others, and we must recognise that. That is exactly what a new right to early retirement does. It is not fair that people who have been worn out through a long and hard working life should go from the last day of the job to the sick bed. For too long there has been a one-sided focus on making it more attractive to work after the retirement age for those who are able to do so. This is positive in itself, but it is also far too long ago that workers' retirement opportunities have been respected and improved to the extent that we are now doing so with a right to early retirement. I am therefore very pleased with the attention that has been given to our agreement on a new entitlement to early retirement. With early retirement, we are carrying out justice in our pension system, which a number of bourgeois parties removed with reductions in the early retirement age. In this way, we will also correct major imbalances in the social contract, which is the basis for the future cohesion of the whole nation. Early retirement gives those who have started at the earliest in the labour market and have worked hard through a long and often hard working life a right to withdraw worthily before they are worn out completely. It has been important to the government that it is a right that people can trust that they have. I think we have succeeded very well with this agreement, which is now being translated into a legislative proposal. We have done this by saying that early retirement does not depend on visitation and award criteria, but is based on objectively verifiable criteria in terms of the time spent on the labour market as the main element. However, when you make a new and comprehensive scheme in a relatively short period of time there will of course also be conditions that need to be adjusted along the way, and I already know that there is a need to table amendments. The amendments will be tabled during the committee's proceedings and will deal with them, among others. the changes resulting from the consultations. In addition, technical adjustments are also made which have arisen since the legislative proposal was submitted. With the agreement here, we are helping thousands of people in our labour market, and I am proud of that. In conclusion, it is important that we have a legitimate discussion on how the pension system is organised. But we need to think carefully, because pensions are the basis for a great many people. That is why, of course, I am also looking forward to receiving the recommendations of the Pension Commission. The Commission shall, inter alia: uncover the possibility of pensionable age increasing more slowly than has been agreed in the welfare agreement. Having said all that, I am now looking forward to the committee's good treatment of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160418	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160425	One can say so demonstratively that one has achieved something by dressing up in certain contexts and saying: Today I put on a fun hat because this is festive; or: I put on a tie because it is festive. And this may indicate that perhaps there is not so much substance in it, because what was the real purpose of the Social Democracy election? Back in January 2019, shortly before the election campaign began, the current Prime Minister said that if you had been over 40 years on the labour market, you should be able to retire earlier. What the bill here says is that you have to be at least 47 years on the labour market before you can retire earlier. So it may well be that the Social Democrats think it is festive, but what about the voters who believed what the Social Democrats said in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160518	I've met a lot of voters. I've been getting letters from a lot of voters since we made this deal. And there are virtually nothing but thanks. Thanks because, for the first time in many, many years, I think Mrs Jette Gottlieb said since 2001, but the truth is enough, I think we need to go further, namely until the early 1990s, to extend the fundamental rights of employees in our labour market. Thanks, because, and this is also important, we are actually making something, some improvements that we have said we would make, despite the fact that previous prime ministers said that it could not be done at all technically, despite the fact that opposition has been great, among others. from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party, and despite the fact that the resistance has been great elsewhere. So I have no challenge facing the many Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160610	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160611	But it was true that it was not possible. The Social Democrats' proposal to retire after 40 years on the labour market, for the money that the Social Democratic Party had allocated for the purpose of 3 billion. kr. So the Social Democratic Party chose a different model, which was not after 40 years on the labour market, but after at least 47 years on the labour market. So everything that was said at the time that it was not possible to do what the Social Democratic Party proposed was right. Can the Minister for Employment respond to this, or can the Minister for Employment only ignore it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160645	I'm definitely not gonna answer around it. I have been looking forward to this debate, including with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Social democracy was elected on seven principles, which were intended to ensure an earlier withdrawal for people with long and hard working lives. One of the principles was that it should apply to people who had been more than 40 years on the labour market. This is the criterion that has been laid down by calculating the length of service on the labour market for either 42, 43 or 44 years on the labour market, and that you can retire up to three years before the age of retirement at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160719	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160722	Thank you. I take the floor because, when you heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, got the impression that New Citizens did not take this issue seriously. I hope that the Minister will confirm in all fairness that New Citizens have come to all the negotiations to which we have been invited and have entered into constructive cooperation to find a solution. The ends couldn't manage to get together this time, but that's the way it is sometimes. But could we not confirm this, because I think that a false picture has been given of what New Citizens actually wanted in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160753	I think there was a rather overheated atmosphere, because I can confirm that both Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and Mrs Pernille Vermund, in the discussions I had with New Citizens, basically share the problem formulation put forward by both the government, the Social Democratic Party and a number of other parties, namely that there has to be a more reasonable and dignified way of withdrawing from the labour market. I myself think it was a pity that there were other factors that meant that New Citizens did not want to participate, but I can confirm that the basic problem formulation and the desire for a fairer withdrawal were my impression that New Citizens also shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160833	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160834	Thank you. Yes, and it is no secret that what divided us was funding, at least from our side. We didn't agree with that. I would like to call for this not to be a sleeping pillow to believe that the problems have now been resolved. My view is that there will still be people out there who fall through and that this does not include. I mean, I'm very worried about the people who might be on the labour market for these 39 years or 58 years or something else. So there are some that we don't address with this. So I hope that one is willing to continue working to find out how we can get to those people so that they also have a good opportunity to still be on the labour market or to step out when they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201160921	I'll sign for that. I had a former party colleague who was also a minister in the upper part of the government hierarchy during the last parliamentary term. He said from time to time that full, whole and comprehensive solutions had been found for things. I myself do not believe that this is necessarily a full, full and comprehensive solution, but I believe that we have come much closer to a solution for a great many people with the right to an early pension, combined with the relaxed requirements of the senior pension, such as: The Danish People's Party wanted to be involved in the negotiations, and I think they too deserve praise for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161006	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161008	Thank you. I asked the Minister in his speech to address this a little strange course we were going through in the alternative. We were actually the first to stand on that platform and talk about early withdrawal, after the German model, and we were actually extremely positive when we came to negotiate in the ministry, but then suddenly we got out of the negotiations. It was a very strange experience. Can the Minister say what this was about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161036	There has never ever been a desire or a decision for the alternative to be withdrawn from the negotiations. On the other hand, I believe that the very clear statement made by the alternative was so clear that there was not so much to discuss at the outset. It was, of course, unfortunate and regrettable that the alternative was not included in the final sprint, and I think this is mainly due to the fact that it was a hectic, a chaotic and, according to some, perhaps even a confused final sprint. I only regret this, and I would also like to thank you for the fact that the alternative has already indicated that they will vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161121	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161122	Well, thanks for an okay explanation, a fair explanation. And another time you don't have to be afraid that we can't deal with chaos. There are more chaos pilots in our staff, and we are in a lot of legislation. After all, I was involved in negotiating the municipal compensation, and when we can find out, I think we can find out most of it. Does that mean, then, that I understand from the Minister that we are welcome to be fully included in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161149	In fairness, the conciliation circle also tends to have to agree to this, but I see nothing to prevent the alternative from joining. What the alternative, of course, has to consider about that, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen said before · whether all parts of the funding are also edible and acceptable, and whether one will take part in implementing it. And here, of course, I am thinking in particular of the part of funding that concerns the job centres, which I know is also something on which the alternative has strong views.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161221	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161313	The debate is open. Mr President, we have the floor. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161322	Thank you. In 2006 it was agreed to make the so-called welfare reconciliation. Here it was decided that the retirement age would be continuously extended as we grow older. This is precisely what was done to secure money for the welfare of the future, the well-being that we all love and that we all very much do not want to do without. The Social Democratic Party was included in the agreement, on the condition that the post-retirement wage existed, because we know very well that not everyone can work for so long. After all, we knew that those who start working, from being young, in hard physical work as unskilled or skilled, will often experience great pain and hurl themselves over the last few years in the labour market. And in order to ensure that they had just the opportunity to have a decent retirement age, it was important for us to keep the old-age pension as it was. Later, unfortunately, it was seen that the post-wage rate deteriorated so much that fewer and fewer people made use of it, and that is why we believe that the welfare agreement and the contract we made with the electorate at the time should be corrected. That is precisely why we stood in the Chamber a few hours ago and helped to secure this group the opportunity to withdraw earlier. We are still sticking to the welfare agreement and will also vote in favour of this proposal. It is a proposal which means that the retirement age is fixed at 69 years for all those born after 31 December 1966. We need a good economy. We need to ensure proper welfare, but we also need a pension system that is fair and a system that people can count on and that people can understand. That is why it was so important for us to have a right to an early retirement pension, which one could probably listen to me when I stood on the platform a few hours ago. Having said that, we must always look at our pension system and see whether it is good enough or whether it needs to be improved. We need to look at whether it is still a secure system that we can count on and a system that we can understand. It is quite fair to question this, namely whether we can now work so long and whether the retirement age should rise so quickly, in other words whether we really have the flexible pension system that we now want. That is precisely why we have set up a Commission to clarify this so that we can all discuss and decide on a much better basis. It is a work that I look forward to very much, and it is a discussion that I look forward to very much. This is something which is certainly necessary and which we must, of course, do and must do on a regular basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161542	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161544	I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that the proposal we have just considered is about people quite different from those on which this proposal is concerned. What we were discussing before was a question of treating the people who are in the 60s today, while what we are dealing with now is about some much younger people and about the erosion of the scheme we have just been talking about, in relation to their ability to retire early.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161613	However, as I tried to say in my speech, this is actually an attempt to correct the ongoing deterioration in the welfare agreement. The reason we agreed to the welfare agreement is that we can understand that if we are to continue to have money for health care, for the care of the elderly, for the care of our children, then money is also needed. But it was so important to us that in the future only those who really have a hard time and who are going through the last few years can get an early pension. That's why it's all connected. It was one of the reasons why not only did it happen, but one of the reasons why we were also here entitled to an early pension because something went wrong since then and because we actually believe that these people who have worked so many years are entitled to an early pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161657	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161659	Now it is the case that an opinion poll has been carried out. Then I would like to ask how the Socialist rapporteur feels about 25%. of the population according to the study supports the government's proposal, while 63 percent. is against or mainly against. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161718	But I understand that, because, as I started by saying, this system has been mistrusted, because we all thought, after all, from the welfare settlement in 2006, that those who can work longer also have to work longer. But we also said at the time that there must be an opportunity to retire earlier. That opportunity has not really been there, and it is precisely then that the voters have mistrust of this. This is what we are trying to restore by precisely creating an early retirement right, by saying to those people that we know very well that all those who can work have to work longer, but those who cannot have the opportunity to retire early when they have worked for very many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161758	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161800	How's sir? Leif Lahn Jensen actually the fact that we first pass an early retirement law gives with one hand and now scrapes in again with the other hand? That's what's happening here. We are giving a few years off because we start early on the labour market, and the right we have just given to people is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is now in the process of hollowing out. There are perhaps good reasons why the big federations in Denmark are opposed to the bill that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161829-2	I think one should imagine that if we didn't have a government that really wants something for the worn-out; if we didn't have some responsible parties like Enhedslisten, DF and SF that would do something for the worn-out; if we didn't get this through; if we didn't sit down and make a majority; if the government hadn't really fought for it right from the election campaign until now, then those people would just have to work longer. Then they had no opportunity at all to retire early. In other words, of course, I am glad that these people have an opportunity to retire early. I know that most of the trade union movement is. It is fair, then, that they have many other wishes, but I think we should welcome what we have done here. It's so big, and it's extremely important to these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161911	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161912	Well, it's big, and it's good. But isn't that a little embarrassing, sir? Leif Lahn Jensen, after a few moments ago, has given some rights, some opportunities for some people who have had a long working life. And then you barely get enough time to pull new oxygen into your lungs... part of it gets pulled back again. So that's two steps forward and one back. That is not the way much progress has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201161937-2	Pray, sir. Karsten Hønge me really about being embarrassed that through the welfare settlement we retain plenty of money for what SF also wants to welfare, the children, the elderly, health? Does Karsten Hønge really say that to me? Does Karsten Hønge also really tell me that I should be embarrassed that we have given the worn out an opportunity for early retirement? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162003	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162012	Thank you. The retirement age is a subject that is both important and topical to all of us. After all, this is an issue we are discussing today, as we did on Friday, and just as we are going to do again and again in the future. After all, the pension system is one of the most important pillars of our welfare society. It plays a crucial role in a secure future and is our promise of security when we get older. That security takes the Left very seriously. We live in a society where the composition of the population changes. The number of elderly people to be provided for is increasing and, at the same time, the number of people of working age is falling. That is why, in the long term, there are fewer people to finance the growing numbers outside working age, and that is a challenge that we must address. We in the Left are also defending the working community. It should include as many as possible, and that is why, through our pension system, we must also support the Danes who can to stay longer in the labour market. However, we must also ensure good solutions for those who can no longer be part of the labour market have been worn out. It could be, for example. the senior pension scheme. In 2015, there was a broad consensus here in the Folketing on the principles of lifetime indexing, which originally originated from the welfare agreement of 2006. I'm glad. Indeed, the indexation implies that the increasing life expectancy of the population is reflected for several years in the labour market. This is an absolutely crucial principle for us to be able to finance our welfare society from now on until 2040. If we were to abolish conciliation on the indexing of lifetimes today, we would be short of 50 billion. kr. in the long term. This would, of course, reduce our chances of continuing to offer world-class healthcare and care for the elderly, to name but a few of the welfare areas we are very concerned about. Of course, we cannot let that happen. Therefore, we both concluded the agreement back in 2006 and also confirmed the agreement in 2015. The Danes live longer, and that is welcome. It also has the natural consequence that the retirement age must follow up if we are to be able to afford the welfare society that we all want, and also have a robust and financially responsible pension system. It is important that everyone contributes. It is also important that those who cannot have the opportunity to step out, for example. the senior pension scheme. Then we have set up a pension commission among the parties responsible for the senior pension scheme, with former Minister for Employment Jørn Neergaard in charge. After all, the Commission must look at how we organise our pension system even better. Among other things, they must: look at the effects of a relaxed lifetime indexing so that the retirement pension increases at a slower pace for vintages which retire from 2040. We in the Left do not imagine, certainly not, that the retirement age should simply continue to rise and increase. It is therefore also necessary that we examine how we create a pension system for the future of Denmark. We are convinced that this bill and the Pension Commission are a good place to start. We welcome the government's bill to raise the retirement age to 69 years in 2035. However, the Left would like to recommend that the Minister convene a conciliation meeting so that we can properly confirm and reaffirm the settlement we reached in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162458	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162501	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether he is aware of how much productivity has increased since 2006 and whether, if only part of the increase in productivity has been attributed to employees, it would not be easy to maintain the 68 years as retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162522	I cannot stand here and say how much productivity has increased since 2006, but there is no doubt that it has increased. We have all become much richer since 2006. We have also had a great deal of opportunity to improve our health care, and we have improved our care for the elderly, primary school, etc. So I agree with the rapporteur on this point. But if we say that we are now setting a ceiling of 68 years, as the Enhedslisten wishes, and that we then do not increase the retirement age, then, as I said, we will, in the long term, be short of 50 billion. kr. to finance our welfare societies in particular. So the Left cannot recommend this, although it is true that productivity has increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162611	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162612	After all, in an earlier debate less than a week ago, we had the same dialogue, which is why I do not want to repeat what was said, but I would like to ask how the rapporteur feels about the fact that when you look at the poll for the voters of the blue bloc, it is 30%. We agree that the retirement age should be increased, while 60%. is against or mainly against the vote and it is only about the voters of the blue bloc. It looks a little different in the red block, but in the blue block it looks like that, and some of them must of course be the rapporteur's constituents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162645	I certainly hope so, and I am well aware that we have the task of explaining that, as we live longer, we must also be a little longer in the labour market and contribute if we want to afford our welfare society, in other words until 2040. For from 2040 onward, it actually looks reasonable from the economic point of view, I think it is usually called economic sustainability, and it is viable from 2040 onward. That is why we support the Pension Commission, which says that they want to look at how we can set up a pension system after 2040, when the increase may be slightly smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162734	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201162745	Thank you for that, President. This is the result of the 2006 welfare agreement on the increasing retirement age. Much has been said about where the retirement age should be, and it has also fluctuated over time. The last time we saw it, I think was during Nyrup, who reduced retirement age from 67 to 65 years. Then it has been raised to 67 years again and then to 68 years, and now we have to talk about whether it should be raised to 69 years. Things tend to change after what development is like, and you look at the way you calculate the average life expectancy on the basis that a Left Minister came up with the idea that you only look at the average life expectancy of those who live longer than 60 years. You can say what you want to say about that. But in the Danish People's Party we think we should be a little cautious about the development. We have said that we do not really see that there can be an increase in retirement age over the 70 years when we reach 2040. The Pension Commission comes up with a report which will look at what life expectancy and pension look like in the future, how to combine working life and pensions, how to ensure that those who want to stay longer in the labour market and what life expectancy is like: Have you become more healthy and able to work, or is it just because you live longer with good medical science? That is one of the things they need to look at in this context. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also believe that it is appropriate that when that commission comes up with its report, we should look at how it looks with the increasing retirement age • whether there is really a basis for it to increase further beyond what we are adopting here today. We don't know that. The next time we have to look at it is in 2025. There's a long time left, and this rise to 69 years is in 2035. I cannot stand here on the platform and say that no other Parliament has come to change that before we reach 2040. You don't know that. There are many of us who are certainly not in the Folketing at that time. But in the Danish People's Party, we certainly think that we should be careful just to say that now the retirement age is increasing. And it's kind of a scaremongering when someone says that young people have to work until they're 75 years old. We simply do not believe that this is going to happen, so you have to be very careful and then look at how things change. It may also be that the average life expectancy falls suddenly, and then we will have to reduce the retirement age if we are to follow developments there. Unfortunately, it is a little doubtful whether there is a government that will look at it in the same way. But the most important thing for the Danish People's Party is that we get a look at how developments are and what the opportunities are for being on the labour market: can one say with good reason that the ordinary worker can be longer in the labour market? It may be that we need a completely different pension system. I could imagine a pension system in which we divide it apart, depending on what education and what living conditions you have, whether you are unskilled, skilled or highly educated. There's a big difference. After all, we also have a situation today, where it is about to be half of the Danish population who does not care what retirement age we set. They retire themselves because they have such large pension savings they retire whenever they want. And in 2040 I think that's where the occupational pension is fully phased in, it may be, it looks quite different for the ordinary skilled worker, i.e. at that time. But the Danish People's Party supports that we look at the development and on what we can get out of the pension commission: do they come with some useful results, and can we look at a whole new way of designing retirement? That would be a step in the right direction. However, as I have said, we call on the Minister to convene a meeting when the Pension Commission comes up with its report, so that the parties behind this can look together at what a new pension system might look like. I think it is time we looked at the fact that it should not be longer in the labour market, but that we should take into account that, after all, not everyone can just stay on the labour market for a long time. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163253	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163257	Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted must have the chance again today, because I have asked for an interview not so long ago, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted gave only a year and a half ago, and in that Mr. Bent Bøgsted: I can imagine that we will stop at a retirement age of 68 years. Sir. Bent Bøgsted goes on to say: we do not know whether the life of the Middle Ages continues to increase, and even if it increases, it does not mean that all the elderly are healthy and bodily. And quite wisely, Mr. Bent Bøgsted: We also need to look at whether it is economically necessary to increase the retirement age; there are already more and more people who, by themselves, remain on the labour market for longer, entirely voluntary. The last time I asked, if I may say so, I got a song from the hot countries, which is perhaps wrong when you talk about DF, but I certainly did not get a very clear answer. What has happened in the last year and a half?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163344	You've got to give Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge so much that Mr. Karsten Hønge does not give up once he has got a paper in his hand that can be used. Well, what is in it, and what has happened since then, is that we have set up the Pension Commission to look at life expectancy and what it looks like compared to the medical profession, you have become more workable, or do you just live longer while you are on sick leave? Because medical science has improved in that sense. But just because you're 90 years old doesn't mean you've had more good years of work. It could be that you were bad in advance. That is why I would also like to call on the Minister to have a meeting when that report comes. But I stand by the statements I made back then. And I still think you should be careful about that. After all, I am not alone in determining the development of the hierarchy here in the Folketing, where there is a welfare settlement where there are several parties. I guess that Mr. Knox... Karsten Hønge is aware that if I had to decide alone, everything looked different, but I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163457	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163459	Well, I don't think that was just a song from the hot countries, and I also think it is unnatural for the Danish People's Party to sing songs from there. So I fully acknowledge that the rapporteur is telling us that it is the raw conditions in the iron industry that it is a decision taken not by the rapporteur himself but in the contexts in which the rapporteur is involved. That's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163520	Well, when those statements came, we hadn't set up that commission. Then we didn't know what it was supposed to contain, and that's what's happened since then. And it has to look at what life is like after the retirement age we have and what it looks like in the future, i.e. whether there is a basis for raising it further, or whether you have to hold back a little. And, as I said, we in the Danish People's Party cannot see that the retirement age should rise to over 70 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163547	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163556	Thank you very much. With this bill, the retirement age must rise from 68 years to 69 years from 2035, and this is because we become healthier and live longer. After all, the increase in retirement age is crucial for the Danish economy, essential for us to maintain the level of welfare, essential for us to invest in welfare and invest in our children, in education and in the green transition. But not everyone can work that long. That is why we in the Radical Left, which I also mentioned earlier today, are happy and proud of the agreement on the right to a senior pension for worn-out people, where we have ensured that really worn-out people can retire from the labour market 6 years before retirement age. At the same time, we have also set up a pension commission in the conciliation circle on senior pensions, which will look at our pension system from 2040, and this is a job that I look very much forward to following. The Commission must, of course, be involved, among other things. look at a lighter lifetime indexing and the pros and cons of a differentiated retirement age. Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163717	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163723	Thank you. We have just dealt with a legislative proposal in which the Radicals voted against allowing people who had worked longest in the labour market and dragged the heaviest and hardest to work a little earlier. Now, on the other hand, Radicals want to ensure that we have to stay even longer on the labour market in the distant future, which we do not know about the contours of. Radicals call themselves a social liberal party. I understand where the liberal is, but can the rapporteur explain to me where the social aspects of this are?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163802	Yes, because voting against the first bill and for this is a very good thing. The Liberal part can, sir. Torsten Geejl so well spotted. The social part is about people who are really worn out. We do not think it is fair to give a right to the right and to the left, but we care about people who are actually worn out, and there we have a senior pension which allows you to retire if you are worn out, not just 2 or 3 years before retirement age, but 6 years before retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163837	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163840	I understand that the rapporteur actually says that there are no really worn-out people among those whom we have today given the opportunity to withdraw from the past. It is people who have been in the labour market since they were very young, and while we have taken education and got good jobs, they have dragged the bags and worked hard and fought and had the longest working days on what some call the bottom of society. Will the radical rapporteur really say that none of them are really worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163913	But then Mr. Torsten Gejl did not listen to my rapporteur's speech when we dealt with the previous draft law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that we are dealing here with those who are actually worn out; those who are assessed on their health with senior pensions and not just on seniority in the labour market. We in the Radical Left are, in fact, ready to further cultivate that track around the senior pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163944	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201163947	If these things are to be linked, I would imagine that the Radicals, together with the other bourgeois, will propose that the improvement in the senior pension, which was planned in 2024, be brought forward to now, otherwise it will be a long way in the future that it will work properly for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164010	The Radical Left will not be reluctant to look at the senior pension because we really mean it when we say that people who are worn out should have an opportunity to retire. So it's a clue that we're going to cultivate. After all, we have come to all the negotiations we have been called for in connection with early withdrawal, and this was one of them. Something we mentioned in several rounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164035	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164045	The so-called welfare reconciliation from 2006 dictates, with its own tough logic, that every extra average year of life should be moved to working years. Frankly, I think it's a little nasty to call it a social reconciliation. But isn't it welfare to have some good years as a senior, where health is still sufficient to be active with the family and with leisure interests? This extremely rough phasing-in of a longer working life gives Denmark Europe's highest retirement age. With the bill that we have dealt with a short time ago, we poured more hot water into the bathtub. Now we're lifting the stopper in the drain. It doesn't make much sense. It's like one hand doesn't know what the other is doing. Well, that's the only thing responsible, we hear all the time. I ask: accountable to whom and to what? No economist who bases his calculations on twisting, pressing or threatening the last theoretical ability out of a 75-year-old craftsman, nurse or social worker should teach me anything about responsibility or social responsibility. I guess it can't be right for you to bring a bunch of dry wood, accelerant and matches to your last working day so that right after work you have to go straight to the burn because you are old and worn out. That is also why we in the FOA have received a hearing reply saying that an increase in the retirement age to 69 from 2035 should be expected to have a number of unsustainable and socially unequally distributed consequences for many of those who are deprived of the right to a retirement pension at the age of 68. It is well documented that a higher retirement age for everyone does not hit everyone in the same way or hit everyone equally hard. There are, for example: a huge difference in whether it is the social and health assistant or the ac who gets the right to a retirement pension for one or more years. Fortunately, more older people work on a voluntary basis after retirement age, and that is a good thing when it comes to their choice. But inequality is getting worse as the retirement age increases. Indeed, there are 7.6 years of difference in life expectancy when we look at a 30-year-old unskilled with a 30-year-old with long higher education, and inequality is growing. That's probably why we've seen full-page ads from 3F, where there are among other things. states that in 3F we have a great understanding that we must finance our welfare in the future too, but that we are allowed to think about it. It goes on to say that there is room for choice of paths other than the extreme automatic increase in retirement age. And in the consultation answer to us 3F writes: 3F acknowledges that the average life expectancy is increasing, but that there are also large differences in life expectancy across the population, which is particularly evident if you look at the educational background. There has to be a lot of money in the Treasury, and a higher retirement age does not necessarily mean a higher retirement age, but a higher retirement age can be one of the tools. So let's go further down the road with volunteering and make it attractive for seniors to stay on the job. However, this means that it is the employer who must take responsibility and create much greater opportunities for seniors to actually stay there, including public employers. Money comes in the box if we do not leave tens of thousands of people outside the labour market. We want the elderly to work more, while 10,000 young people are looking for an internship. Poor working conditions also cost society billions each year in addition to human costs. In the future, many unskilled people will find it difficult to fit into the new jobs, which are fortunately on the way. Upskilling provides qualified and flexible labour. Insecurity seeps into thousands of homes as a hideous mark of a long working life. The privileged floats as usual upstairs as cork stoppers. So it's not just the way to set up the retirement age blindly for everyone. On average, we live longer, but it is the shortest educated who pay the price. 25% of the unskilled men are expected to have less than 10 years of retirement. The long-trained got in bag and sack, the short-trained got a long nose. However, that nose has fortunately become a little shorter when we implement the new law on early retirement, but as the situation now stands, SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164537	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164540	Well, now I'm just repeating it, as sir. Karsten Hønge told Mr. Bent Bøgsted now, sir. Karsten Hønge has the chance again today, namely the chance to again make a song from the hot countries that we heard last, or play on two horses, one could also say. Because SF wants a lot here. They want a lot of welfare. They want to do something for the sick, for the elderly, for the children, but if we do not do this, we will in the long term need 52 billion. kr. If we don't do this, then who is it that SF doesn't think we should help? Is it the children, is it the elderly, is it the health? And if they say, yes, we still have to go, where is it? We have to find 52 billion. kr.? It is okay to say something about the working environment and something about a little voluntary, but when you stand here and play on two horses, you have to make a concrete suggestion about where that money is to be found. Last time it was a song from the hot countries. I believe it's gonna be like this again, but you can be surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164639	The premiss is completely false, and therefore it is completely pointless to answer from the premise that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is rolling out. It is not the case that the only way to go is to raise the retirement age. And not raising the retirement age is actually also welfare itself, otherwise it doesn't make sense. A bad, unsafe and unhealthy working environment costs society somewhere between 60 and 70 billion. kr. a year. I just do not understand the idea of saying that we must force the elderly to continue working while we lack internships for 10,000 young people. If you're talking about hands on the labour market it's like the premise in it, that is, by setting up the retirement age, you get more people working longer hours then we could use the huge resources that are available today within the labour market framework. 70,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 29 do not have an education, are not in education and do not have a job. So there is the same access to labour in many other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164740	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164742	There are other ways to go, says Mr. Karsten Hønge, and there are many things we can do. But what? And how? They say that we can do this and we can do this, but how are we going to do it? Today I have again received a song from the hot countries. I haven't heard what the SF exactly wants. I've just heard that SF wants to keep welfare, but they don't want to pay, because they can't find the money, but you can do that and that. That's what I hear. I really see SF as a very serious party, I do, and I love SF very much, but here SF lacks an answer for us. They need to give an answer to all the people who are standing out there and want an answer from the SF. That's just not the answer. What's SF gonna do to find that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164822	I don't know what kind of people they are, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen thinks is standing out there, for I have at least quoted here from some of those who represent hundreds of thousands of people, namely 3F and FOA, who say that this is not just the way. So I do not understand what kind of people it is for some people who demand and demand to raise their retirement age when there are other ways to go, including voluntary ways, where companies need to be much better at including and designing jobs suitable for seniors; when there are huge opportunities to put other people into employment, then you even give them a better life, by getting them into employment, which will also benefit the economy. So I don't recognize it or see what kind of people are standing outside screaming to set up their retirement age. I know it's not a public claim, but maybe it is in Mr. Simpson's office. Leif Lahn Jensen's hinterland is not in 3F at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164902	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164906	Thank you. We're in the same place as Friday. I just hope we can get some better answers. I'd like to pick up the thread where mr. Leif Lahn Jensen let it go, and I hope for a better answer. Well, by not raising the retirement age, we're missing out on a lot of billions. It costs on our welfare. We cannot maintain the level of welfare. We cannot invest in new welfare. We can't reach the green switch. So which of these areas is it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF would like to save on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201164943	The premiss has been falsely carried out. In other words, you put forward your own premise, which is nowhere to be found, and then you ask me to reply on that premise. That simply does not make any sense at all. For the premise that lies also in Mrs Samira Nawa's question is that you just expect a craftsman to continue to work, that is to say, to sit here and count on some excelark: what if we set up the retirement age? So, are people just gonna keep working? They don't. I have to say again, and I know this too, at least on solemn occasions, radical policy, that we must involve more people in the labour market, create a more inclusive labour market. How does it sound in the ears of the Radicals when they insist that those who have already had a long working life should continue to work, while thousands of young people run their foreheads towards closed doors in educational establishments where they should try to complete their professional education? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165038	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165039	Now it's my turn to ask questions and not the other way around, so I'm just kind of asking again. Sir. Karsten Hønge points to improved working conditions, and last Friday it was stress; that is to say things that we in the Danish Parliament quite broadly agree on are challenges that need to be solved, but that is not what will get us the billions needed so that we can invest in the welfare society, improve the level of welfare and achieve the green transition. So what kind of welfare area is that, sir? Karsten Hønge and SF want to save on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165112	It is a completely false premise that makes no sense whatsoever and should not do so in a radical way. Why, though, is it so blind to demand that the retirement age should be raised when the same money can be taken from other places so abundantly? It doesn't make any sense. On the contrary, by not being so concerned about raising the retirement age, one might take it seriously and resolve some of the challenges that not only raise more money in the treasury, but also give a lot of people a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165137	Then it's mr. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165139	Thank you. One thing can be said, of course, is that, in relation to this exercise, we have created some financial scope for better standards in the day institutions, better care for the elderly, the elimination of 2-percent savings, etc. That's the one part, but the other part is the one and that was Mr. Karsten Hønge himself also notes a little that we live longer, i.e. that we generally become a healthier population living longer. We have then tried in relation to the case we had before to take into account those who are most at risk. But is it not reasonable that, when we live longer with a better life, somehow we also ensure that we contribute to the society we have? It is said that these are different ways to go, but cutting off this path is, of course, a matter of writing off a great deal of money to be spent on our welfare. And then perhaps we need to know exactly what we are going to do to achieve the same level, and perhaps in the long term we could use some of them, such as Mr Tugendhat's report. Karsten Hønge points out here, to make our welfare society even better along with this solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165251	First of all, I just want to make it clear that having some good, worthy years as a senior is actually also welfare. It is actually well-being in a number of families where you are afraid that you can endure the season, to put it that way and where you are right, really afraid to get into the door on the way out of the labour market after a long and hard working life. So for them it's well-being to know that you actually get some good, dignified years as a senior. Then I would like to say that I shall then refer to the fact that 3F and FOA represent all sorts of others, which I think have some echo with Mr. Henrik Møller points out that it is true that average life expectancy increases. And that's good, isn't it? We have good experience of the fact that we are actually working on a voluntary basis. We can see that. But why is it that you have to push, threaten and twist the last theoretical ability out of the last senior? For as 3F says: We understand very well that we must finance our welfare in the future too, but we are allowed to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165350	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165355	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that smokers should have access to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165403	No... or it depends on what brand they smoke. Then I'll think about it. Is it pipe tobacco or is it smokes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165412	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165414	Okay, it's just that smoking, as I understand it, is the life choices you make that shorten your lifespan most. This means that those who smoke have fewer years to live on a pension. And we know from studies and research that smoking along with alcohol is what cuts your lifespan and your lifespan the most. And that with what work you choose to do is of minor importance. That is why I am just interested in it, since now SF attaches incredibly great importance to the work one chooses to deal with in order to have less time in the labour market. So I was just curious whether there are other elements and other life choices that you make that should also justify having fewer years on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165502	Now the bill that is on here is about the lifetime indexing in relation to the welfare settlement. I guess you don't go in there and have classes or other lifestyle stuff with you. It is a question of automatically increasing the retirement age for everyone. I think this is a bad idea because we live so different lives and to let it rise the same for everyone will help to emphasize the inequality that exists. The fact that there is also a connection with it is obvious. Everyone knows that; it does not surprise anyone. It means a lot if you smoke, if you drink, or if you stay fit. Everyone knows that. I didn't understand the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165538	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165542	Thank you for that, President. Now, of course, we've been listening to Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge thunders against the rising retirement age and say that the money Hans Andersen mentioned an amount of 50 billion. kr. Now, Mr. Knox... Karsten Hønge stands and says it from the platform, then it means that Mr. Karsten Hønge in connection with the Finance Act will say to the Minister for Finance: No, SF will not be involved in spending any of the money that the welfare agreement has provided, because it is not our cup of tea; you must find the money somewhere else? The 50 billion. kr., or how much it will be in the long term, is not some SF will help to use, for SF has not helped to raise that money. Is this how it should be seen in this context? Because then it will be some exciting financial law negotiations. I have the feeling that Enhedslisten will also help spend that money, even if they are against the welfare agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165641	As far as I understand, this bill is about raising the retirement age in 2035, and I am not aware of that, the Finance Act for 2035, we are working on. The point is more that if the right conditions are there, anyone can see the point in a higher retirement age. I said that myself in my rapporteur's speech, as I said myself. It could be one of the tools, as I said. One of the tools to raise more money is not necessarily a adopted higher retirement age, but to get people to retire later on clearly enough. What I am saying is that, in order to make a general increase in the retirement age, there are a number of other conditions that need to be met. Among other things: It must be much easier and more attractive to make job and industry changes through your life, so that you have the opportunity to avoid being worn down due to one-sided work. It also means that you can become a more flexible workforce. There are other advantages to it. Another condition for making it possible to reach retirement age at all is that you have a safe and healthy working environment throughout your working life so that you can actually reach the finish line. So there are several conditions that must be met at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165745	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165747	I think I understand that. Now it is the case that the retirement age is the money that comes in from the rise in retirement age, the SF will help to spend, but the money that comes in, by raising the age from 68 to 69 years, the SF will not help to spend on that time if they are unfortunate enough to sit in government at that time. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? You stand up here and play sacred, and you don't want to spend the money, but when you're in negotiations, you want to help spend the money that you haven't been able to get yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165824	Well, all of us who contribute to all sorts of solutions help raise money. It is also important to invest in a healthy and safe working environment. As we say: 1 kr., which is spent, is 2 kr. that comes home. So it also helps to raise money. When you get internships, it gets money, other than that it brings better lives. And it is probably so important for the SF that it provides a better life for those who get a less grueling job and are not exposed to so many accidents at work and who actually get an education and more choices through life. But it also raises money and makes the economy robust. But letting the retirement age increase is certainly also one of the tools, so let companies play in with flexible models so that seniors want to stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165903	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201165905	It will be like Donald Trumpsk when the rapporteur will not accept that it will of course cost welfare in one way or another if the increase in retirement age is stopped. In other words, if the increase in retirement age is stopped, the government's finances will have a surplus of 22 billion. kr. for a deficit of 19 billion. kr. in 2040. That's 41 billion. kr., which it costs to follow the socialists' policy in this area, and a brave deficit in the Treasury. And then we simply have to believe that it costs nothing on welfare. That's it, sir. Karsten Hønge answers Mrs Samira Nawa. That can't be right. In the United States, we have Donald Trump, who says that the United States is the best country in the world to deal with the corona. Everyone can see it's wrong. At home, sir. Karsten Hønge, who says that it costs nothing on welfare if you do something that costs 40 billion. kr. in lost state revenue. In other words, can the rapporteur explain what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170000-2	In any case, I am not sure that I can do it in a way that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh understands. I can't guarantee that. But I am also glad that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh was finally given the floor, for Mr. Alex Vanopslagh was sitting around on the chair down there, as if he were sitting on a hot frying pan in order to be allowed to stand up. So it was good that he lifted himself from the chair, which apparently was like a hot frying pan down there. I confirm once again that raising the retirement age is one of several tools that can be important in getting a robust socio-economic environment. What I'm saying is that there are other tools than that per person. automatic and Slavic to raise the retirement age. After all, we are already seeing a clear movement towards more people staying on the labour market. We can lure, we can offer, we can motivate people to stay longer, but it requires, first and foremost, employers to play with and let me stress here: to a large extent also the public employers to ensure that they meet the wishes of seniors so that you can design a much more flexible way of being employed. It can make people stay there, because the result is the same if we get more people to work. That is why a retirement age is important, but far from the only tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170107	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170110	It's as if the temperature on my chair is rising as the iq on the platform falls, and then it burns in the butt, so to speak. It's okay. I fully recognise that it is clear that some initiatives can be taken, some reforms that make people want to work more. You can also abolish the top tax; it will make people want to work more. You can remove the set-off in the pension if you work more after the retirement age. There are some different things you can do. But after all, it does not pay 41 billion. kr. in government revenue. So the question of the Radicals is still relevant: do you want to cut welfare, or do you want to raise taxes to finance the gap that would be left with Mr. President? Karsten Hønge's politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170146	The prerequisite for the issue is completely false, completely useless, because that is not the question. The question is that you can use different tools to get there, many different tools. And if sir... Alex Vanopslagh insists, then I can repeat the amount: alone a bad, uncertain working environment costs society somewhere between 70 and 80 billion. kr. I don't have any idea that you can just go out and drag them home, but you can actually do a lot of them. In a number of other situations, it is possible to achieve the same result by giving Denmark a more robust economy by involving the enormous resources that lie elsewhere than by torturing, twisting and threatening the last theoretical ability out of a 70-year-old.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170222	Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170228	I am still puzzled because the rapporteur continues to use the same sentence. And I do not know whether it is simply because there is no answer in relation to the 52 billion. kr., which SF's rapporteur cannot explain how to land. In fact, I think that my fellow Members in this Chamber have asked some important and good questions, and I could of course nuance it. In other words, I know that the rapporteur's colleagues in the municipalities are very pleased, for example. to be supported in minimum standards, and I also know that there are a lot of young people who have to make it through an education which, although not like 3 Fs, is still a good and healthy education which needs special educational assistance, which has also been supported, and there is a great deal of money and good welfare money in the 52 billion. kr., and I still don't really get any answers. And you can repeat again that the premise does not apply, but you could also try to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170330	Why on earth should I go out to answer a question that has been completely falsely implemented in its foundation? That doesn't make any sense. Why would I let myself be lured into such a trap that doesn't make any sense? But I do know that the trade union movement of some Social Democrats is not at all with everyone, but with some people I can just read again: I 3F we have a great understanding that we must finance our welfare in the future too, but there is reason to think about it. It is possible to choose ways other than the extreme automatic increase in retirement age. Those were the words from 3F. They're mine, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170400	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170402	Thank you. I would just like to point out that I love 3F very much, and I was on the street myself at the effort that was made around Jensen's Steakhouse. But I would also like to point out that the Danish Teachers' Association, of which I myself have been a member for incredibly many years, is also a trade union. So it's just a ping pong back to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170428	There wasn't much ping pong in it. Because I read out what may be 3F's point of view and what is mine too, that is that there are other ways and that it is permissible to think about, and I am not saying that an increase in the retirement age is not important, as it were. Indeed, it is, and this result can be achieved in different ways, just as we can make it attractive and easier for people on the edge of the labour market to enter the labour market in different ways, so that the result is the same, namely that more people produce. But to be so completely blind that it has to happen through this one as they write in the 3F--extreme automatic increase in retirement age, I do not see as the only answer that lies in what the Social Democratic Party apparently does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170505	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201170516	Thank you. See, we are today discussing an end to the so-called welfare settlement, and here I would very much like to hear the goose-eyes from 2006. In fact, the world looked very different at the time, at least in the workplace. Firstly, there was an early retirement scheme which ensured that, if you felt obliged to retire before retirement, you would have an opportunity to do so at the age of 60 if you had paid your quota to the scheme. Moreover, it was then understood that if it were to make sense to increase the retirement age, significant improvements would have to be made to the working environment. Since then, absolutely nothing has happened. For many years we had a retirement age of 67 years. Suddenly it was in 1998 and it is true that it was with Mr. Poul Nyrup as Prime Minister reduced to 65 years old. Was it now because people had become more worn out in their working lives and therefore needed a previous pension? No, it was simply an economic speculation. At that time, the right to early retirement was more expensive than the right to a retirement pension, and it is the same that is happening now that the retirement age is now to be raised to 69 years. So allow me to quote Virgin Ane: Never mistake the fact that money was the motive and that nothing was given out of love of life. What we are discussing today is, of course, the factuality of the automatic increase in pensionable age in line with the average increase in life expectancy. And translated into ordinary Danish means that workman Petersen has to work longer because Mrs Splashenskjold is over 100 years old. We know, of course, that the difference in life expectancy is growing in these years, the spread is getting bigger and bigger. However, there are a large number of other factual considerations in this regard. Our different working lives are evolving differently. There is no doubt that people who have the opportunity to organise their own work are better able to put their resources in place so that it does not hurt. But what is characteristic of the labour market as such is that over the last 20 years there has been a general increase both in pace and in labour intensity, which has also led to a sharp increase in productivity per year. I am not only talking about the increase in the speed of the assembly line, of which there are probably not so many more left, but it goes through in many ways: as daily tickets in the building if the deadlines are not met; as a faster cover time at the airport, where the aircraft must be almost cleaned and loaded before it is landed; as more and more deadlines for journalists for the 24-7-news hunt; as more guests per year. In addition, there are more sick and more demands on nurses; larger case groups from the case workers in the job centres; more pupils and hours for teachers, etc. etc. That kind of intensification or use and throw away- attitude to the labour force already has some visible results. Because it is not certain that one's ability to work follows up when one gets older. The evidence does not agree. Some doubt that this is the case in general, but everyone agrees that it certainly does not apply to all work functions, and they usually refer here to many different types of physical work. This knowledge is also available if you are travelling in the ordinary jobs. In recent unemployment figures we have seen an increase in the group of those over 60 years of age in statistics. It is now not a significant increase, but what we know is that if you have only been fired and are over 55 years old, the chances of getting work again are greatly reduced. How can it be if it is so important that we work our lives out? A study showed, for example, that: in 2017, at 59%. of the unskilled workers had left the labour market before they were 62 years of age, and the same had 47 per cent. of the skilled and even 30 per cent. by officials and other servants. I did a study myself for the carpenters in Copenhagen 10 years ago. At that time, only 20% was available. still working as a carpenter when they were over 60 years of age. Of course, some of them had been given other jobs. They were in demand as pedellers and as janitors etc. etc., but the short of the long one is that it means that at the same time they lose the opportunity to apply for a senior pension on the basis of the work they had before, so they are judged after the new job and not after the old job. That is why the arrangements are not complementary, and what we are doing when we increase the retirement age is, after all, what I want to say at the end of the day: let those who can work continue to work and let the Commission work on the whole of the complex pension issue before headlessly grasping one corner and demanding an increase in the retirement age. I would say that Enhedslisten is of the opinion that 68 years is more than enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171024	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171026	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we have developed a policy that we call free pensions, which is an idea that citizens should be less dependent on the system, so to speak. They must have the freedom to withdraw from the labour market earlier if they want to take responsibility for it themselves. In short, the idea is to create a new pension account for all Danes, where it is tax-free to pay up to 700 DKK. This means that a person who pays money tax-free into his account for 40 years in a line can withdraw five years earlier from the labour market. It is the person's own choice and it is tax-free, but the person can take responsibility for his own situation and withdraw earlier without it depending on the politicians' will to reduce the retirement age. Such a proposal gives the citizen more freedom, and I would really like to know whether Enhedslisten thinks such a proposal is good, sweet policy or rather good, sweet music in their ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171124	Well, that sounds fascinating, but the main thing about it is that it means that those who have the opportunity have good wages and who are rich can withdraw much earlier at the expense of those who are poor and who do not have the opportunity for that savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171139	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171141	No, it's wrong. That's how the system is today. There the rich can afford to retire earlier, and the poor do not, because they have to pay high taxes. With this proposal, you can tax-free, that is, the sosu assistant can use this 700 kr. every month and deposit them and then withdraw five years earlier, if that is what they want. Is it not in the spirit of Enhedslisten to say that we must free ourselves from the system and that it is not only the rich and those who can afford to be freed from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171206	Yes, except for the factor that it supports the rich and oppresses the poor. So you can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171213	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171221	Thank you, President. This bill proposes that, in accordance with the regulatory principles of the law, the retirement age should be set at 69 years for those born after 31 December 1996. Furthermore, it is proposed to amend the revision provision of the law so that the next draft law on the regulation of the retirement age will be tabled in 2025. The implementation of the 2006 welfare agreement meant, inter alia, that the provisions governing the adjustment of retirement age were introduced into the Social Pension Act. This is essential in order to afford the welfare we benefit from the fact that the retirement age is accompanied by the increased life expectancy. For 60-year-olds, life expectancy increases by more than 5 years from 1995 to 2035 and the age of the population will have increased by 2 years over the same period. For the Conservative People's Party, it makes sense that there is a link between the retirement age and the life expectancy. As indicated by the Minister for Employment, it is estimated that the life expectancy indexing of retirement age contributes to a strengthening of fiscal sustainability by around 52 billion. kr. It is, of course, of a magnitude that can be felt. Moreover, that money is already included in the assessment of the sustainability of government finances. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171354	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171400	Then we stand here again and have to talk about retirement age, but after all it is alone because politicians have a terrible urge to keep taking the citizens' money out of their pockets so that they simply cannot save up for their own pension. That's the honest truth. If only politicians could limit themselves a little more, citizens could save their own money and then they could decide when they could retire. But it's not like this. Here politicians force every single penny out of the citizens so that they are client made to the fingertips, and politicians can use this as a small tool every time there is a choice, or every time you have to do something, you can make an Arnepension, and then you can just turn the retirement age up or down, simply because you want to run the citizens in every tiny millimeter of their life. We do not support this at all in the New Citizens' Party, which is why we must of course have some reforms, and we must, of course, have lower taxes and taxes so that people can save their own pensions. Less policy • more freedom; smaller state • more for citizens. That's New Citizen's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171504	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201171510	Thank you. I am both happy, but I am also a little concerned that we are here today to discuss what the retirement age should be for the future. But first of all the joy: I am happy because as Danes we live longer because of more wealth, new treatments and a healthier lifestyle, and we actually live better. These are amazing times we are experiencing. We shall be delighted about this. It is clear that the more years of life and the healthier lifestyle also mean that we get several years on a folk pension, and then it is wise and common logic that the folk pension age increases along with the average life expectancy. In 2040 it is the case that a 60-year-old is expected to retire 161⁄2 years, although he can only retire when he reaches the age of 70. A 60-year-old in 1995 had the prospect of less than 13 years of retirement, although he could retire at 67, because his life expectancy was significantly shorter then. So it goes without saying that it makes sense to allow the retirement age to rise slightly when the average life expectancy increases so much. So it is actually on a happy basis that this bill is being tabled, which is why I am actually glad to be here, but also a little concerned. Because there is cause for concern about the fact that we have a pension system at all, where we politicians have to decide what the retirement age should be for all citizens at once, that is to say that different people have to have the same retirement age, and that opens up a number of different problems, especially because it is they who go to work who pay for those who are retired. And when it is problematic, it is both because it opens up irresponsible populism; it becomes more tempting for populist politicians to hand out even more money or even more years on folk pensions • it is problematic and it is also problematic because it makes Danes more dependent on the system; dependent in that they have both less freedom and less personal responsibility for their lives and their old age. However, just to return to it with irresponsible populism: it is irresponsible populism when today the DF and the Red parties have adopted a so-called Arnepension which unfairly rewards certain groups at the expense of others, on behalf of others, solely on the basis of political considerations, while at the same time withdrawing thousands of people, healthy people, out of the labour market and exacerbating public finances. And, of course, it is irresponsible populism when the reddest parties want to slow down the increase in the future retirement age. As I mentioned earlier, it costs 41 billion. kr. 41 billion kr. in 2040. A staggering surplus will turn into a staggering deficit in just a few years if we stop the increase in retirement age, and then more welfare is over, increased public spending is over, more educators are over, and all the green climate promises are over. There's no afford for any of it. The only thing that is affordable is higher taxes, and it also means less welfare, and it is glaringly economically irresponsible. On the other hand, I can personally understand and sympathise with those who would like to withdraw from the labour market earlier than the age limit that we politicians have set. I can actually also understand those who want to continue working for even more years without being penalised financially for it and without being drawn into social benefits. I understand those who would like to be more free to take responsibility and less dependent on the system. Unfortunately, that is the opposite of what we have today. But that is the reason why we in the Liberal Alliance are proposing a free pension: that all Danes should have the right to create a tax-free pension account that they can use to retire earlier than the official retirement age or use to sweeten their lives when they choose to retire at some point. The idea is that the account must be tax-free both when depositing into the account and when paying out from the account, up to 700 DKK. a month. You decide whether you want to withdraw from the labour market earlier or whether you want to do so later and then get the money paid out at that time. You just have to take responsibility for it yourself. With this model, you can withdraw five years earlier from the labour market if you have paid this 700 DKK. tax-free 40 years in line. If you have only done so in the eyes of a goose 25 years, you can retire two years earlier before the official retirement age and so on. But it's up to you. You decide whether you pay in, whether you want it paid out earlier or whether you want it paid out later. You get the freedom to take more responsibility with the free pension of the Liberal Alliance: the freedom to withdraw earlier if you have taken responsibility for it, but it is not a bill that you can wipe off on other people. In short, less dependence on the promises of irresponsible politicians, less state thinking, but more freedom in his own working life and his own life, yes, in short, more well-being for the citizens, but less welfare state for us politicians, who we can use irresponsibly. Freedom works for all good, including old age, while socialist populism works for nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172012	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172016	Thank you. Well, I got a little worried about my liberal friend up there, 'cause I remember he was standing there saying if you cut 40 billion. kr. in the public sector, that is, that you had 40 billion. kr. less in public, it would affect basic core welfare, and then we could not have a welfare state. That's also what he said to Mr. Knox. Mr. Karsten Hønge earlier: Yes, we are a little worried. Does the rapporteur really believe that the state cannot continue to provide good, basic core welfare, even if we cut it by 40 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172048	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is smart today, but not so bright that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been able to predict the future of 40 billion. kr. in the Treasury. Then it is not the case that politicians say: then we must be responsible and have cheaper, better and freer welfare. No, no! Then it will be greater tax increases, and higher taxes are less welfare. So in this way, of course, it will mean less welfare. But it is true that I tore Mr. Karsten Hønge it in the nose: What SF and the red parties call welfare, namely that the state spends more money, there will also be less of in the future when there is less money in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172119	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172120	Yes, exactly, because it is about political leadership and the political responsibility that goes with it, and that is why we can also say that the Liberal Alliance itself has pointed out that 8 billion. kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on this matter in the near future. I know that the former Productivity Commission found that 50 billion could be saved. kr. in the public sector, without it being at the expense of the basic core welfare. I know that because we have a common fight for that. But I also share the concern that if you let the socialists tamper with this, that is not where you will find the funds. So thank you for the liberal coming back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172151	There is no doubt that the public sector is marinated both in money and in bureaucracy, and the public sector needs less bureaucracy, less money, but more freedom, and there I think the rapporteur and I share both ambition and political views.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172206	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172222	Thank you, President. The crystal ball in the Ministry of Employment says it is necessary that we work a year longer in 2035. When I heard that, I thought that crystal ball I would really like to borrow to predict the future. I am simply not sure that it is very precise; I am not sure that I can use it for so much. Firstly, it is difficult to predict the future, and secondly, we are going through a whole lot of changes towards 2035. There is the rest of the world, and there are the countries with which we sell and trade, and their economic conditions mean an incredible amount. There may be huge unemployment in those countries and there may be a fantastic growth that means that we have no unemployment at all in Denmark. There will be robotization, digitization, artificial intelligence, there will be a lot of rationalization in Denmark. Are we going to lose hundreds of thousands of jobs? How many of those we're going to recreate with new technology we don't know. But we're going through a gigantic change. There are some of the world's leading businessmen who say that, probably because of robotization, we will be able to run society without all of us having to work so that they are in favour of civil pay. There is a significant increase in production in society, which has been here for a long time. There may be epidemics. Well, predicting that it's exactly necessary to work another year in 2035 in a world like this, I think it's a little gibberish. There is no calculator that can say with certainty that the life expectancy indexing of retirement age contributes to the strengthening of fiscal sustainability by 52 billion. kr. If we're standing here in 2035, that's probably the only thing that hasn't happened. And so we will probably be making good reasons for the fact that financial sustainability had not increased by EUR 52 billion. At least it's a shot in the mist. If we should at last do something that should try to encourage people to stay longer in the labour market, then I think we should use a little more imagination. We have nothing against voluntary schemes. Could we not motivate those who want to stay a little longer on the labour market? Or make life easier to stay a little longer on the job market? Could you make it more attractive for our seniors to hang around in jobs? Given that fiscal sustainability is being strengthened by 52 billion, is it not a little greasy that these people should be forced without carrots to stay longer in the labour market? I mean, the great reform we have been talking about here today about early retirement costs a few billion. Here we have 52 billion and we are so greasy that we will not even use a tiny bit of them as carrots for some good flexible schemes where seniors can choose voluntarily to stay longer on the labour market. And even now we will decide that people will have to work for a year longer in 2035, even if a Pension Commission is not even waiting for it. So we think this is a shot in the mist, and we think that the chance to hit exactly here is so infinitely small that the alternative isn't going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172547	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172552	Thank you for all the speeches made by the rapporteurs here at the first reading of the draft law on the regulation of the retirement age. As all the rapporteurs in this Chamber are aware, we have before today first examined the draft law on the introduction of a new right to early retirement. The introduction of early retirement is basically about justice, but, as I also said at first reading of that bill, it is also, and to a very large extent, about financial responsibility, because early retirement is the key to maintaining popular support for raising the retirement age for those who can. In other words, if the welfare agreement crumbles, the foundations of the Danish economy will go down, and as a society we will need money for welfare. It is clear from the Social Pensions Act that it is necessary to calculate every five years whether the retirement age is to be regulated. The regulatory rules of the Act provide for an increase in the retirement age by 2020 by one year in 2035 to 69 years. This bill raises the retirement age from 68 to 69 years in 2035. There is no doubt that pensions are an important issue, both for the individual and, in particular, for our economy. Pension plays a crucial role in a secure future that we know we can count on when we grow old. With the introduction of early retirement, it is my belief that we are strengthening our support for an increase in retirement age as we live longer. And, as has already been said in the debate here today, we cannot afford anything else either human or economic. I think it is important that we have a legitimate discussion on how the pension system is organised, but we must think carefully, because pensions are the basis for a great many people. That is why I am also looking forward to receiving the recommendations of the Pension Commission. The Commission shall, inter alia: Uncover the possibility that pensionable age will rise more slowly after 2040 than has been agreed with the welfare agreement. Against this background, I would like to thank you for today's debate and I look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172823	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172829	I heard the Minister for Employment say that this is about raising the retirement age for anyone who can. Is there something I've misunderstood? Isn't the bill about raising the retirement age for everyone? And how does the Minister feel about helping in the same afternoon, with one hand, to give workers a more lenient conditions in relation to having a good, dignified senior year and so soon, with the other hand, to help undermine the first improvement that has just been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201172900	I mean, sir. Karsten Hønge is basically wrong about both the bill we have dealt with earlier today, but also about the whole early retirement model because it is built around having to go hand in hand with the welfare agreement requirement that retirement age increases as we live longer. This is also why the timing of the inventory increases at the same rate and thus also the length of service. So I'm basically fine with that. And, as I have already said during the discussion of this bill, but also during the examination of the previous draft law, I also believe that with the right to early retirement there is a question of handshake, that the handshake has been restored, that the handshake has been restored, that the handshake has been given when the Social Democratic Party endorsed the welfare agreement that there should be worthy withdrawal opportunities for those with long and hard working lives. We have secured this with early retirement, and that does, of the life expectancy indexing of the retirement age now again rests more on a very, very important balance from our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173001	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173006	I think I will do the same as the Minister for Employment, in other words talk about what is good, rather than talking about what I asked and which is difficult. For now, in the previous draft law, we have given rights and will give rights, but when you make this automatic increase, you hollow it out, in that the bar for when you can retire is lifted. So it's like one hand doesn't really know what the other is doing. So I would like to ask the Minister for Employment how the Minister for Employment feels about 3F writing like this: "In 3F we have a great understanding that we must also finance our welfare in the future. But you are allowed to think about it!
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173043	But 3F and everyone else who submits a hearing answer is welcome to write what they want. That does not change the fact that we, on the part of the government, are very, very strong supporters of our very strong welfare society. I believe that we have built up one of the absolutely strongest social models, not just in the whole Western world, but in the whole world. Here we have created a good, secure, stable and equal society, and an essential prerequisite for it is, among other things, that we can finance it, so that free and equal access to education, health and all the other good things is also available, and that is what an increasing retirement age helps to pay for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173125	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173129	Yes, and I listened to the Minister that what this is about is two things: it is justice and it is money. Now we've been orbiting something about the money thing. Then I would like to ask what percentage of the productivity increase that has taken place since 2006 would be needed in order to maintain a retirement age of 68 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173152	I am absolutely convinced that Mrs Jette Gottlieb, in the second round, will give me the answer to that question, because I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173159	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173201	No, it is not that easy, because I will ask that question in writing afterwards. On the other hand, I would like to ask something else. I would like to ask what the Minister's position is on the fact that if you look at the poll by age, it is the case that, among those over 60, 31 per cent support or support a little, while 63 per cent support. is almost or totally opposed to the increase in retirement age. But if you look at the 36-59-year-olds, it is 16 per cent, respectively, who support all or little, while 70 per cent. is against or vertically opposed. What is the Minister's position on such a background for adopting the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173248	From my point of view and from the point of view of the government, this is an issue that we have taken very, very seriously for quite a few years. That is also why, in 2011, we were very much opposed to the deterioration of the post-retirement wage. There we thought there was a handshake given by the welfare agreement in 2006, which was broken, which is why we also went to the polls in this parliamentary election that we would like to create a right to early retirement that could create fairer, fair and dignified retirement opportunities, knowing that we have to work longer as we live longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173322	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173333	The debate is open. Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173349	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. Just like when you press the bus, you can also use your pen to get pressured here, so that there is a chance for the next one to completely coronawise to have a proper distance. Today we are going to deal with the Social Free Card bill, that is to say, the extension of the experimental system that has been in place. With the proposal, the government wants to make it possible to spread the scheme further among citizens with special problems. Based on the first year of the trial scheme, we have seen that the free card has had positive effects on users' daily lives. Several of the citizens have stressed that the experiences and experiences of an employment with the social card have increased their well-being and their quality of life. I myself, as I believe several of my fellow rapporteurs, have also visited Social Free Card Vesterbro, and a handful of truly diverse and committed people have each in their own way needed the support and opportunity provided by the Social Free Card. Here I met, among other things. Earl, who loved bikes, like I love bikes, and now stands in front of Føtex, so if you come by Føtex on Vesterbro, you can get your bike fixed in less than 20 minutes. It has not only done something good for the bikes at Vesterbro, but it has also given Earl something to stand up to and, as he himself says, a daily life without drugs. The evaluation of the experimental scheme has also shown that far fewer than expected have used the social card. At the same time, the implementation of the scheme has been slower than expected, which is why we in the Social Democratic Party have also been concerned that we are both helping people who live on the edge as best we can, but also that we are taking note of the challenges identified by the experimental scheme. At the same time, we believe that the potential is far greater than we have now seen. For us, it creates the framework for supporting the homeless and socially vulnerable, and we are really concerned about doing something about that. It is not just about going to work, but also about having the opportunity to do a job. That is what the social free card allows. This is a very fine legislative proposal which allows for an extension of the experimental scheme for another two years and then an adjustment. In other words, we are laying down boards and making it possible to expand so that companies can join and commit to it better. It is of great importance that there should be that stability and that we can now see the cracks where we can see how it gets much better. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can also support the bill. We look forward to following that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173720	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201173729	Thank you for the floor. Back in late September I visited Social Frikort Vesterbro. It is an initiative that has been created in collaboration with the Men's Home, the Nest and the Users' Academy. As the name suggests, the initiative for citizens at Vesterbro is to feel vulnerable citizens, citizens who have struggled and struggled with everything from drug abuse and prostitution to psychological problems. During my visit, I met Christine and Pernille, two women who, let's just say, have been through a bit of everything, but who have gradually found their way in life. One of several reasons why Christine and Pernille have found the way and now live more stable and financially safe lives is the social free card. The stories that Christine and Pernille could tell me that day in September touch me deeply. To hear about the stones that have been on their way and how many battles they have both had to fight is heartbreaking. But when they then told about the difference the social card has made for both of them, one can only stay in a good mood. Something as simple as a free job and an opportunity to earn $20,000. tax-free a year without being drawn into public service had given Christine and Pernille a chance to contribute, a reason to feel that they can do something and do something, and finally an opportunity to earn their own money honestly and honestly. In fact, Christine told me that the money she makes with the social card is worth more to her than money that has been acquired, we must say more dishonestly, precisely because there is an effort behind it. She also told me that the money she makes doesn't have to be spent on drugs because that money matters. It shows me how unique the social card is. It is a system that makes a clear difference to people who cannot and may not have been in the normal labour market. That is why the debate about the system being too expensive, me too, is annoying, because then its potential and human value have not been understood at all. Now there is an opportunity to work a little bit without being set off, get the chance to become part of a working community and at the same time gain a sense of what it is to contribute. For the same reason, I am also pleased that today we are extending the temporary arrangement for the next two years. As a left-wing woman, I am proud of the fact that it was a Left-led government that took the chance at the time and introduced the social card. However, we owe it to the socially disadvantaged; the scheme was their idea. However, I am proud that the principles and thinking behind the social free card can now hopefully gain even greater circulation in the social field. In fact, the social free card jumps out of a mindset of freedom and flexibility and a principle that everyone cannot do everything, but that everyone can do something. It's a belief in people. And that is why everyone, including those who are socially at risk, must, of course, be given the opportunity and incentive to contribute. We regret the fact that the government has been so reluctant to accept the social card. We wonder why the government has not taken the initiative to adjust the system in the light of the evaluation we already have. In fact, we in the Left ask ourselves why on earth the social card is not being made permanent. Is it credible because there is some reluctance on the part of the government to embrace social policy ideas coming from the blue bloc? The fact is that the government has only played out very late with an extension of the scheme, and this has created uncertainty about its future. The government would in fact only have extended the scheme one year. After pressure, we managed to get through with an extension of two years. But the truth is that in the social reserve we have set aside money to continue the social card in 2023 and 2024 too, because it was a clear priority for the blue parties. That is why we are also surprised that the law has an expiry clause after 2022. Why not have a review clause instead? Let us send out a clear signal that the scheme is secure for at least the next four years. And why does the bill require a review? I note that the government responds in the consultation note that an amendment is being considered. I would just urge you to do so. If the social card is to be a real success throughout Denmark, then it requires the Minister to embrace the scheme and not only accept it reluctantly. There must be a focus on good implementation in all municipalities, and knowledge of the scheme must be disseminated. The Minister has a responsibility for that. In those words, of course, the Left will vote in favour of extending the experimental scheme and we hope that it will soon be made permanent. For the social card is good social policy and it is needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174232	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174247	I am glad that we can deal with this bill for extending the social card experiment. I would have rather stood here with a bill that the scheme should be permanent, but there have been improvements since the draft law was put forward. In presenting the proposal, the Minister writes that the negotiations on the implementation of the reserve for social measures 2021-2024 have not yet been completed, but since the draft law is due to enter into force by the end of the year, the draft law is now being tabled. The draft law is now being presented with the expectation that a two-year extension of the existing social card will form part of the agreement reached. If the negotiations involve amendments to the bill, an amendment will be tabled. Fortunately, it became part of the agreement on the rate pool or reserve, as it is rightly called today. The political agreement is based on the existing system for the free card, but it is also part of the agreement on the execution of the reserve that the next period should be used to obtain more knowledge of the potentials and challenges of the scheme, respectively, with a view to making the scheme permanent in the long term. It is part of the reserve agreement that there will be new policy discussions on the need for any adjustments in the scheme in spring 2022. And, as the previous rapporteur has also said, the agreement provides both for the extension of free cards and funds in 2023 and 2024, for the further development and continuation of the social card system. It is obvious that the system will not have full impact until it is actually permanentised. If social organisations, employers, municipalities etc. to make efforts to ensure that the scheme is spread and used much more and thus achieves its full potential in supporting the opportunities for the vulnerable to a link with the labour market with the social benefits that it could bring to all parties, then the scheme must be permanent. That is why it must be obvious that in the forthcoming discussions the starting point must be that permanentisation must be the objective. In the consultation responses there are a number of good proposals for the scheme, and in the Minister's comments on the consultation responses it is in general that all good proposals are referred to the next round of negotiations in 2022. That may be fair, but in the Danish People's Party we will seek a commitment from the committee that the good proposals are actually examined and dealt with, so there is a basis for involving them in future discussions. There is, however, one point that the Minister will be looking at during this legal procedure, and that is the review clause. If it is maintained, it will mean that there will have to be a major review process at the beginning of 2021, and the Minister promises in the comments on the hearings to look at whether the review can be omitted or at least simplified. I hope that the Minister may already be able to give an answer to this question in this Chamber today. In addition, the comments are about e.g.: the amount of money, the administration of the free card and the possibility of employment by private individuals. As far as the limit is concerned, today the limit is DKK 20,000, and in some cases it is too little for a real continuity of work to be achieved. Therefore, we should discuss where the limit should go to support the scheme's intention in the best way possible. With regard to administration and supporting IT, it would be ideal for employers to be able to join the same system as they do with other employees. This, of course, is also something that needs to be resolved when the system is being made permanent. Finally, there is the possibility of hiring private individuals, which we should also discuss in those negotiations, because this could help create more relevant small jobs throughout the country. But I must admit that Rome was not built in one day. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that the extension of the social card is guaranteed for two years, and we are particularly pleased with the clear declaration of intent that the scheme should then be permanentised. Thus, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174703	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174714	Thank you. When I was a boy, we were often visited by a grinder, one of the kind that both sharpens knives and scissors I don't know if he was from Faxe. But he came in and sat at our kitchen table and had a meal that my mother made for him before he started the job: a couple of good butcher knives, a heavy scissors for heavy canvas and a few ordinary knives for the kitchen work. When he was finished, they were all sharp as razor blades, and it was settled in cash, whose tax relationship remained a matter between the good grinder and his creator. For him it was a supplement to the income of a profession that hardly exists anymore, but it was also a way into a small community in our home, in the neighbor's home and elsewhere in the city where he made himself useful, as I am sure he would have expressed it. Few like alms • Everyone wants to feel that they are doing something; that their efforts make a difference; that they contribute. And although I do not draw any parallel between the grinder here and the good people I met at Halmtorvet today, from the Men's Home, whom I have drank from mulledg and ate apple slices with this afternoon, history still comes to mind when we discuss the social free pass and the extension of it. The social free card is a small pocket in a large, complicated and often bureaucratic system, from which it may seem quite insurmountable for some to get out of. These were the stories I heard down at Halmtorvet today; how the social free pass is a stepping stone into a normal life or at least into a life with a little more self-reliance and a feeling of contributing and being able to give back. I signed for that on Halmtorvet, where I was among others. spoke to Christian, who told him that for him it meant that he could now come on vacation with his daughter, Christian! I would like to sign for that in this Chamber today. It is precisely about the individual; it is about having the right and control of your own life and about striking a small dent in the rules we know. Of course, we support the extension of the scheme, which is a very good way to create a way into a life of education for some, with work for others and for most: with a small community. There is a need for the scheme to go further than that. More people need to be aware of what the scheme can do, so more people use it. And I look forward to following that in the years to come, when we will also be discussing the future. But, as I said, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201174937	The story of this bill is a story that I've had the pleasure of following from the start. It started with Krølle... a man who unfortunately isn't here anymore. Curl lived a hard and exposed life, but he contributed with his commitment and his ideas. Curling was and is actually a pretty good example and a pretty good symbol of the idea of the social free pass, which he himself was the project maker of that one also in a exposed and chaotic life has a desire to contribute, be part of something and could care for oneself and others. Krølle's idea was passed on to Christiansborg, among others. because the Liberal Alliance through the Gadejuristen had gained sympathy for the proposal and sought the support of other parties. So I think it is actually appropriate today to thank them for that, because that meant that a unanimous Parliament decided two years ago to launch the pilot project with the social card. The purpose of the card is to allow some of those who are in the most vulnerable situations to experience making a difference, to feel important and to gain recognition for the efforts they make. The idea is to create a simple path to small jobs, to which they do not necessarily have to commit themselves, but where the motivation can lie, that one can earn a penny from day to day. Such a system needs to be flexible with regard to citizens with unstable lives, but can act as a small push to carry out small tasks that are valuable and that at the same time give a little change in their pockets, without having to pay taxes or be drawn into benefits. The trial period is now about to pass, and experience has been gained with the social free pass, both the many advantages and potentials that I have had the pleasure of meeting the free jobs myself; the one who helped to start a café up in the morning; the one who cleaned the bikes, for him too, I have met, and I have even had my old garden gate cleaned and fixed; the one who went to hand with practical tasks in an office, etc. Now, in the agreement on the social reserve, we have agreed to extend the period by a further two years in order to move from a trial period to a period in which we build on experience, develop and hopefully also get the free pass spread to more vulnerable citizens and more companies and organisations around the country. The next few years must also be used to learn more about the barriers to creating free jobs for those who could benefit from it, so that we can adjust and adapt the scheme before it becomes permanent. We have already set aside money to allow it to be extended for another two years, that is to say. Four years in total, but it will then be appropriate to find more sustainable funding than the social reserve, which will, of course, be used primarily for methodological development and temporary interventions. The consultation responses to this bill already point to some of the conditions under which the social card can be disseminated further. I think it is worth noting, among other things, that the need to cultivate and develop cooperation between organisations, companies and municipalities is highlighted if the scheme is to be successful. The social free card has been, yes, you might call it a curly idea. It has therefore not only been easy to implement, because it runs into the systems we already have, and that is why it requires some to be able to translate the idea into concrete agreements between a free worker and an employer. However, if you talk to those who have benefited from the scheme, you quickly realise the importance of free jobs. So SF supports the bill and I look forward to following the further development and dissemination of the social free card.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175341	There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175345	Thank you. The rapporteur praises the social card, which we in the Left are very pleased about. However, I would like to know whether the SF believes it is satisfactory that it is not proposed to make the scheme permanent, but only to extend it for two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175401	Well, I'd like us to have it permanently fixed. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think we are now moving from a trial period to a period of further development, because there are some things that need to be changed so that this system really becomes a success. Then I also believe that, if we are to make this system permanent, we need to find funding other than the social reserve. This was what was possible this year, i.e. to extend it on the social reserve and also to give a hand in the fact that we broadly agree that this scheme has some potentials, but it also has some things to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175436	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175438	I hear that the rapporteur says that we have good experience with the system, and the rapporteur himself has met some of the socially vulnerable who have benefited from it. Does the rapporteur have any doubt that permanentisation is the right thing to do? Well, I'm just wondering. Is it only the funding that stands in the way of the fact that we do not already have the courage to speak out clearly and say: we want the system to be permanentized?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175459	No, it's not. And I think I am actually saying that I would like to, but I also think that there is some experience that shows that it is difficult to get it spread in the country as it is now. So I would like to help adjust it so that it will also be a success elsewhere in the country than at Vesterbro. Perhaps this actually requires that the system be adapted in a way that will make it more widely distributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175524	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175535	Thank you for that, President. The idea of a social free card originates originally from the people of the street, specifically from Michael Krølle Hansen. Curl was a drug user and homeless, and he struggled with a wide range of health disorders. Despite its difficult situation, Krølle still had a desire to work on his good days. The idea behind the social free card was therefore that the socially vulnerable should be given the opportunity to contribute by taking striking small jobs without being deducted from tax or offset in social benefits. The idea was to give socially vulnerable opportunities to contribute on their own terms and to earn a few hundred kroner, which would now make a noticeable difference in their lives. And even though the attempt at the social free card came a little heavy from the start with a comprehensive IT system and complicated guides, the scheme turns out to be of great benefit to those citizens who today have a social free card. So congratulations on that and also thanks to Krølle, although he was not given the opportunity to experience it himself. In the Enhedslisten we are pleased that the government will extend the trial scheme with the Social Free Card. We are pleased to have created a slightly more inclusive labour market where socially vulnerable people who do not have the best conditions to become part of the labour market can still get a foot inside. Finally, let us continue with the good experiences we have had so far. We are also pleased that the draft law to extend the social card system provides that the system can be adjusted if the need for it arises. If the social free card is to be the success it deserves, it is crucial that we listen to the needs of users and are ready to change the rules so that the scheme becomes easier to use and more accessible so that as many as possible benefit from it. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175723	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175732	Thank you. The bill here translates that part of the agreement into the reserve to extend experiments on the social card for citizens with special social problems. The social card gives the most vulnerable in society a better opportunity to have a link with the labour market. This can help to improve the quality of life for the individual citizen. I myself experienced this the other day when I had a conversation with one of the users of the social card. She was very happy to be able to contribute and be part of a working community, although she had some challenges with abuse. It created value in everyday life for her. The social card system has been a success for those who have used it and, as I said, it provides citizens with special social problems, such as: abuse, homelessness and mental problems can earn up to 20,000 kroner. tax-free annually, without it being offset against public benefits. The current regime runs from 2019 to 2020 and we extended it with the reserve last week for another 2 years and with the possibility of permanentisation. Now it is a question of making the scheme more widespread among citizens and businesses and providing more knowledge of the possibilities offered by the scheme so that more people can use it. On the conservative side, we believe that in the committee work we should look a little more at the circle of potential employers in relation to extending it to private ones, because among other things. is a wish from the outermost regions of the country, where there is little local business, also to be able to use the system in this way, i.e. to allow free-card holders to make an agreement to give a hand to, for example, the right to vote in local elections. gardening work for a fee. The Conservative People's Party is part of the agreement, and we are very pleased about that and, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201175956	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201180011	When I first heard about the social free card, I was quite happy, frankly, that in this way Danes were assured on the edge of society the opportunity to earn their own money without being set off heavily in taxes or benefits. I think the intention is good, and I think it's right. According to VIVE, there were 6,400 homeless people in Denmark in 2019, and homelessness can be caused by many things. Often it is a combination of exposure, mental illness, and abuse. In New Citizens we would very much like to help Danish homeless people. They must be able to live in peace on the streets without fear of assault or being hit by the unjust zone ban because they come together to ensure security, proximity and warmth. That is why we also want to link the right to live free in Denmark to Danish citizenship and to abolish the zone ban. We want to ensure better conditions for Danish homeless people in general and help those who would like to be helped out of their homelessness, but at the same time ensure that the few who would like to be allowed to live on the street should also be allowed to do so. We simply need to be able to accommodate this in a country such as Denmark. But when I started my speech as I did, it is because Hus Forbi had a very good article on the basis of a hearing answer from the homeless organization, SAND, in connection with the introduction of the social free card experiment. This showed that out of the 45 million. kr., which was allocated to the social card, went 29 million. kr. is administered during a 2-year trial period. House Past put it this way: Socially exposed people are being taken by the government and do not benefit from the social card. Of course it shouldn't be like that. That is why I would like to ask specifically how many of the millions are earmarked for administration this time. When I sat and looked through the figures, it looked as if it was actually half of the 19.8 million. DKK allocated to administration. The next question follows: do you really think that administrative work should be so expensive at the expense of the homeless's ability to earn their own money? We do not think so. We warmly support the idea and the idea, but we want the money to benefit the homeless and not to be spent on administration. That is why, of course, I am awaiting answers to my question before we finally state our position, and hopefully together in committee we will be able to make a better solution with the good idea, the social free card is a solution, how much more homeless Danes will benefit from the millions, instead of going to public employees djøfs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201180318	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201180326	Thank you. I am sincerely and exceptionally pleased that today we are a united Parliament which extends the social free card. For the social free card is perhaps one of the most important initiatives we have made for some of the most vulnerable citizens in Denmark • drug users, homeless and mentally ill. Yes, we have given them the opportunity to say it plainly to make some money tax-free, to make some money black without being punished for it, and it has been a success. It has been a successful social policy. Like many others, I come straight from an event at the Men's Home and the Gadejuristen, where the people of the street celebrated and marked that today in the Folketing we are dealing with this and are responsible for extending the social free card. It's not something that only I can take credit for, it's also something you've decided. And I was supposed to say thank you. When you talk to some of the free jobs, with some of the people in the street who have taken advantage of the social free pass, it goes without saying, almost from all of them, that they experience better quality of life because they experience the gift of doing meaningful work and making a difference to their fellow human beings. And that is, in fact, the biggest gain in working. It's not like you get any more money. No, the greatest benefit of working is that you become part of a community, you get the opportunity to make your mark on the world, and you get the opportunity to be recognized to make a difference for other people. And yes, of course it's nice to experience the pride it is to earn your own money. I guess that's high as low, rich as poor, black as white. It is such a basic human thing that we need, that is to say to be able to feel the pride of taking responsibility, but also to be recognised for making a difference for other people. The interesting thing about this measure, which has improved the quality of life of some of the most vulnerable citizens, is that it is not a municipal programme. This is not a state initiative. It is not something that has arisen here at Christiansborg. No, on the other hand, it is about freedom from the system, about freedom to take responsibility and about freedom, about the resources that the individual has, on which he is based, and that those resources should not be kept down by the welfare system. The story of the social free card, which others have also mentioned today, started back in 2013, when Joachim B. Olsen was out with among others. The street turist to talk to homeless and socially vulnerable citizens. Here they met, among others. Curl depicted here Curl was homeless and drug user. He was a man who had a lot of courage and joy in life despite it. Today he is no longer alive, but back in 2013 he got the idea that it should be possible to earn some of his own money unbureaucratic, tax-free and without fear that the municipality subsequently draws one into social benefits. Joachim B. Olsen took this idea directly from Istedgade to Christiansborg. There is not so far in the physical sense, but in the spiritual sense, I had almost said, or practically I think there is often far from the people of the street to Christiansborg. There wasn't here. Here it was brought in, and since then a broad majority in the Folketing has taken ownership of the social free card, and I think that is a great thing. I think it is fantastic that we can see that the best help we can sometimes give people is freedom from the system and freedom to take responsibility without being punished. That's common sense. And the freedom to take responsibility without being punished for it helps the homeless and socially vulnerable. For that matter, it also helps successful entrepreneurs. This is something that is a good tool at all, even when it comes to social policy. I am glad that it enjoys such broad support in the Folketing today. One or two amendments which I was explicitly asked to take with me today from some of the free jobs is the first: raising the ceiling for how much money you have to make, possibly to DKK 40,000. That is the one proposal I want to pass on. The second is that people should be able to hire free jobs privately. Well, it doesn't have to be a company with a CVR number that hires people, so that as a private person I can also hire a free person who uses the social card. Just to give a low-practical example from today: I bought a Christmas tree out at the Men's Home today. I should have brought that in here at Christiansborg, and I am a lazy dog, so I didn't want to drag that Christmas tree up to my office myself, and there I could have hired a free job. If it was allowed by private employers, yes, then I could have hired a free job to carry that Christmas tree. Someone offered it, but said, "You can't if you don't have a CVR number, and I don't. So this is an example of the fact that some small tasks could be done if it were the case that private individuals also had to hire free-job workers to do some work under the social card. In the end, the mayor drove the Christmas tree to Christiansborg and to my office. There can be talk of job theft and social dumping, but leave it at that. We welcome the support for the government's proposal and the fact that the government has also moved on to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201180820	Thank you. And then I would just like to point out one small thing: that debates in the Parliamentary Assembly are taking place in the spoken language, and that is why there are no props in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you for the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201180839	Yet there was a prop that showed us the picture of the decapitated Curl. It is not because I have to cook more soup on him, but I would like to say that I think it is nice that he has been mentioned by several rapporteurs. Because it is not every day that a homeless person gets such a good idea and passes it on to the Gadejuristen, who so skillfully passes it on to the Liberal Alliance, which then again skillfully collects the majority for it. If the previous rapporteur then stands and salutes it as a kind of example of going down directly and earning some money without bureaucracy and administration etc., I must draw attention to the fact that it cost us 45 million. kr. To make this arrangement. Never and certainly not in the history of the Liberal Alliance has so much money been spent on bureaucracy and administration sewing together something that so few people have spent. It was unbelievable, and we crossed. That's when you're gonna set up a new tax scheme. This is the most expensive piece of social work I have ever done, and yet we are happy about it. There have even been rapporteurs scattered among the homeless today to celebrate and enjoy it and learn a little, and that is a good idea. I was on the street for 5 days sleeping with the homeless people in Aarhus to try to learn more about what we can do and what the conditions are like. There was one fact that was very important, and it has something to do with dignity. In fact, it means an incredibly great amount in relation to the social card, I think. The ability to earn your own money is a small pocket of dignity in an incredibly unworthy life, where people experience shame and guilt for having to sit and beg, for having rotten teeth and being displaced by their family and never being able to get a job. It is a life that leads many others to believe that they have given up. No one has. At least I learned that. It's never a question of people giving up. If you get an opportunity to restore dignity in your life, people will actually use it. We have also seen this with the kickstart capital of DKK 50,000 that we have introduced so that people can restart their lives if they are allowed to attack their biggest problems first. That's what this is all about. When you can go into a supermarket and help in the bottle department and earn a score for whatever you need it for, it's a matter of giving a small pocket of dignity and perhaps even the possibility of getting a leg inside that department or being able to say somewhere else that you've had these five-six small jobs. It's all helping. Of course, this arrangement needs to be continued, but we need to get it under control. We need to make sure that some more people use it. We have to drive it in better, we have to market it better, we have to make it a little simpler to use. So in the alternative, we are also very pleased that it is in the reserve. Actually, we think it's a good place to have it. But now let's spend two years getting it super well up in revolutions, and then let's make it permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181159	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181202	Thank you. I would just like to share the rapporteur's annoyance and frustration that it is so costly in terms of administration, and I would just like to hear the rapporteur's suggestion as to what the explanation of that is, whether it is because there is something wrong with the system, so to speak, or whether it is the idea that is wrong with it. Because the idea is not that we should have bureaucracy. The idea is, of course, that you should be allowed to make some money without being drawn into social benefits and also have to earn them tax-free. Of course, there's something practical there. And as soon as you have to carry out that idea in the public sector, it will cost 29 million. kr. in administration, although it is practically only in the City of Copenhagen, it has been implemented because civil society has been skilful there. I haven't answered myself, but why does Mr. Torsten Gejl that it will be so expensive as soon as something goes in past the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181254	I should be able to answer that precisely, because I was involved in doing it at the time. But I can promise the rapporteur that it was simply so complicated to find out what all the money was spent on. Well, there was a whole lot to do with treasure. When you have to create a system where people can go in and make money without paying taxes, it is something that doesn't fit into the Danish tax system at all, so it cost a lot of money. Then there was something about tax refunds, because some people had to pay that tax, and that had to be sorted out, because otherwise the state lost money because we let them work black, as the rapporteur himself says. In this way there were layers after layers of administration that made the launch of this was an extremely costly affair. Now it's on, and now we've spent all that money, so now we have to make it work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181339	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181340	I very much agree, and it is fascinating with the many layers of costs that are being put on something that should actually be quite simple. I just want to warn you about something that could turn into a new layer of costs. The rapporteur says that we must place this on the market much better, and we know what is going to happen: more administration, more costs and more marketing. So I'd like to warn you about that. There are also times when we politicians say that now we have to do something, and it actually ends up being what drives the price and administration up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181408	Yes, but it is almost a pity that a scheme that is so expensive and has been so hard to push forward must be so secret. I don't remember the number, but wasn't it less than a thousand people who used it? The Minister confirms that. It is less than a thousand people who have used it and it costs 42 million. kr. Or something like that. Well, we have to, in one way or another, explain to people that it exists. And in terms of marketing, it's often something that happens from company to company. A very effective form of marketing is, of course, that a manager of a warehouse tells it further in a management network. So it's not to put more public administration on it it's simply to make sure it's not that secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181443	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201181453	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the receipt of the bill here. This has been both a very constructive debate, but indeed a very heartwarming debate. Never do I think so many rapporteurs have been out talking to so many vulnerable citizens on the day or the days of the discussion of a bill. As the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, I would just like to say: much more of it! I think we can make it a permanent tradition every time we deal with proposals for social progress, that we may even see in common groups when we begin to do so in relation to corona, come out and meet the people we are dealing with here. We've come a long way around the world, we've heard of the happy Curl, we've been past the grinder in Thy for adding years back and Halmtorvet a few hours ago today. And thank you all for that. I believe that those who have had to keep up now and who have not had the opportunity to speak with a social freeman have had a very good impression from the rapporteurs' reports here today of how this system can make a big difference to a very vulnerable person, that is to say to some of the people who live absolutely on the edge of our society. This means a great deal; it does the concrete crowns and ears in the hands of the rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre, and Mrs Bjerre, described how that money could otherwise have been provided for these people, but I think we have all seen that it actually also means a great deal to self-perception, self-esteem and dignity for these people at all. After all, the social card means that some of the most vulnerable citizens we have can take part in the community, that they can make an effort and that they can see that there are some who need them and look forward to them coming. We can see in the evaluation, if you are into this kind of dry stuff instead of people of flesh and blood, that this scheme provides greater well-being and quality of life for the individual. That is why I am also pleased that with the reserve we have agreed to translate funds into this so that the system can be extended. Thank you to the parties for the support for the government's proposal to extend, and that you were then further ambitious and eager and fought to put years on. I can only welcome that here today. We're extending boards, to say it a little popular. We are extending the experimental scheme by two years and in the two years the same conditions will apply as in the past. The purpose of extending the trial period is to spread the social free card to more vulnerable people and more companies and thus also to get more knowledge of the potentials of the scheme and of the challenges, because I do not think we should try to pretend that there is nothing about this scheme that has disappointed. Well, it was assumed that after all only 4,000 people would benefit from it annually, and the latest figures I have seen tell that there are 880 who are in jobs with the free pass they have been granted. So, after two years, according to the calculations made when the agreement was signed, we had to have 8,000 people who had benefited from this, and we have 880. It would be weird to try to put it under the chair and pretend it's not an expression of some kind of challenge with this. That is why I also hope that, after this extended trial period, we can see significantly more people who have been searched for a social free card, and indeed significantly more who have actually got a job and can actually use it, and also that we see a greater geographical spread. I believe that this can also be done, and I also believe that we will see the increased approach continuing. And in view of this, I shall look forward to negotiating with the parties of the Folketing widely about what can then be done for the scheme in the future. And, of course, it is also a matter of following up all the good proposals that you are right to make in the consultation note, on how we will be able to expand, amend and so on. the scheme. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said that we should hopefully qualify and follow it up, and indeed I certainly imagine we should. It's good that there are so many people who want to think about this arrangement. New citizens are asking questions about the economy and I would very much like to answer questions about it in committee, but you can also start by looking up page 3 of the general remarks in the draft law. There it has simply been completely exhaustively examined what the funds are to be used for here. And it is true that it costs some money to have an IT solution here, however, it is only 3 million. kr. and not the over 40 million. kr. originally spent on this. I do not want to hide the fact that the Social Democrats were at the time very critical of how expensive this administrative arrangement was to get up and you probably shouldn't start calculating a single price if you're a cheap jyde like me. It is therefore also good to see that we are now extending boards so that more people can benefit from a system that has been very expensive for administrative purposes to get up. However, on page 3 of the general comments on the draft law, you can see exactly what the funds allocated by the parties behind the reserve are being used for. However, as I said, I am happy to elaborate on this in the legislative procedure. Yes, it was so good to come from the grinder in Thy in the old days, if you can call it that without insulting the rapporteur of the Radicals, to Halmtorvet, where the rapporteur was earlier today. There was mention of Krølle, who, a little against the rules, was shown a picture of here on the platform, and the idea he raised to Christiansborg, and with all the people you thought, I would perhaps just like to end with the quote which I also think the rapporteur of the Left was about, namely the very true words that no one can do anything, but that everyone can do something, and we as a welfare society still have the merit of helping the most vulnerable citizens also to be allowed to experience. So thank you for the very good debate today, thank you for the good negotiations we have had, seven or eight negotiating meetings we used in the reserve, but many good things came out of that, among other things. This. So it is a happy Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior who is standing here looking forward to further committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182112	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182115	Thank you. It may be that the Minister sat and was busy with something else, but I actually said in my speech that, as far as I could calculate from the figures in the comments, it was about half of the money set aside that was spent on administration. The last time you did this experimental scheme with the previous government, it was 45 million. kr. set off where 29 million. kr. I have to say that I am not in a position to say that I am not in a position to say that I am not in a position to say that I am in a position to say that I am not in a position to do so. I would just like to ask the Minister if he thinks that it is best to spend so much of the money that should actually go to put off, homeless Danes, could make some extra money and perhaps get some blood on the tooth in order to get on with some of these things too, in other words get a job, etc., for administration. Do you really think it is appropriate that so many millions of this money should go to public employees rather than to those out there where they were actually intended, namely to the homeless?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182219	I also said in my speech, and I heard the rapporteur's speech here very well, that some of what was problematic for us when the bill was first drafted was that it was so heavy and bureaucratic. I think our rapporteur called it a bureaucratic monster or monster or something like that, if I remember the quotations from the daily press right. The reality is that there is a need for funding to get such a system going here, and some of what has been criticised in the evaluation is, after all, the IT system that cost so much to get up and get up, and then it becomes almost no more tragic, so that there is something that is both expensive and that is not seen as particularly user-friendly. That is why some of what I will be very concerned about when we have to negotiate is also what is going to happen to this scheme, how we do not repeat that mistake and how we can get an IT system that supports this being as unbureaucratic as possible. But the question back to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party will be: which of the expenses that can be seen in the draft law's comments does the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party think we can do without?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182324	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182325	That's an excellent question to ask. With regard to anchoring, dissemination and guidance, 2 million could be removed. kr., and in relation to the financing of an IT solution it is 3 million. kr., and this whole idea of revisiting people who have had the opportunity to do so in the municipalities has also been added to a lot of millions. That's some of the places we could start. But I look forward to that, and I can hear from the Minister that the Minister is keen that we should find each other in committee, and I shall look forward to that very much. Because we certainly want this to benefit the homeless far more than it does with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182358	If the rapporteur has read the consultation notes, and I know that the rapporteur has been guaranteed to do so, then the rapporteur will also know that some of what is very critical of here is that the system is not properly out in all municipalities, that there are too many places where it is known too badly, where it is too poorly anchored, where there is no proper dissemination, and that is one of the things that is being called for. That is why it is part of the agreement that New Citizens as the only party is, of course, not part of, so for good reasons the rapporteur has not been involved in the discussions on it either. There's a need out there for us to get this scheme further out, and that's why it's not just money out the window to make sure that this is properly anchored and properly disseminated. Nor can we have an arrangement without an IT solution, and you can read the consultation note with review, and we are in the process of clarifying whether we can avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182440	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182440-2	Thank you. One of the things we hear is that all of us who have spoken with the freejobs are that the challenge of getting more people on the scheme is that you are afraid that the social freecard will harm you in your social affairs. We have also heard examples of the fact that, contrary to the intentions of the legislation, other public services have been set off when you make money on the social card. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will help to clarify that what is being earned on the social card, or just the fact that you get a social card, must not harm you in your social affairs and that, of course, there must be no set-off, because that is precisely against the intentions of the legislation already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182524	Well, it is a very good picture that with the social free card it hasn't been an easy birth, so that there are some citizens who are in trouble and that there are some companies for whom it has also been extremely difficult to deal with • How do you arrange for pay payments here when all your employees are taxable and it runs in a fixed IT system and this should be handled differently? And that is one of the things that has been continually tried to correct and that we will continue to see if we can improve. When we then discuss more fundamentally the area of employment, as is the case, a great many of the consultation answers revolve around and, as the rapporteur also asks, I think that this is one of the things we need to have a look at, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also called for, when we are going to discuss how we can ensure, if this arrangement is to be continued or permanently made, that we get the cut right here. Because I think it is true when there are so many consultation answers that pointed to the fact that there are some issues with a cut-off to the rules of the employment area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182627	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182629	Should I understand the answer so that we will only look at clarification when we are going to evaluate the scheme in two years' time, is that understood correctly? In other words, the system already says today that it must not harm one's social cause or that there must be no set-off. Why does the Minister not want to make this clear even now? It may also be just by letter to the municipalities. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182650	My experience is that it has been clarified on an ongoing basis when the sort of things that the rapporteur mentions have been found. This is quite natural, and I think the rapporteur says it very clearly in his own speech, so that here the law is actually quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182703	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182705	Thank you. I have three questions, so if the minister has a pen, find it. One is whether the government and the Minister have an ambition to examine whether it is possible to reduce administrative costs and, if so, what they will do or whether they accept that it is as it is. The second is in relation to the proposals which I myself mentioned from the platform, i.e. among others. This thing about raising the ceiling for how much money you have to make. What's the government thinking about that? I know that this, of course, affects the economic space itself, so to speak. The third is the possibility that private individuals may also hire free workers. Is this something that the government will look at before the third reading?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182749	After all, the framework is now established here with the agreement we have reached, which is to extend the current system of boards, and that is why this is also what the draft law is about. That is also what the economy has been set aside for. That is what the political agreement is about. However, I would like to say quite clearly to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and chairman that I believe that we must do everything we can when we sit and discuss how this should be continued, so that the administrative costs are as low as possible and that we must learn from the problems, challenges or what modern Danish has been saying, that there has been a lot of money spent on bureaucracy so far. The rapporteur is quite right to say that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in favour of the report, we shall have the right to vote in favour of it. If we were to raise the ceiling, we would have to find more money to finance the lower tax revenue. Therefore, the things that are being asked about here are, of course, something that is more part of the discussion we are going to have when we are no longer extending boards, but are going to have to adjust the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182852	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182855	I hope, then, that we can try to say, and perhaps even before the third reading, that the money we actually think we can save on administration and possibly IT, we are spending on raising the ceiling. I think it would be a great thing to move money from bureaucracy to the citizens. I do not know whether this is possible at all within such a short time frame, but I would really like to hear the Minister's ambitions in relation to it. Because there is going to be a committee procedure, and if you ask the officials to elaborate on what it really is, all the administrative money is going to go to, and it turns out that it is screaming to heaven, then it may be that you can find some funding quite quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201182931	Now I got to say something about cheap yonders earlier, and there's one of these on the platform here. I can tell you that through the longer negotiations we had, where social free cards were one of the things we negotiated, these financial estimates were looked at. After all, there were a lot of priorities in the very small reserve this year, hopefully the least we will have and so I can promise that there isn't just such loose hand spending money on things that don't make sense. Finally, let us elaborate on this in committee, but there are some calculations and some debates behind this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183005	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183032	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183046	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, it is being proposed that legislation be implemented by the end of 2020, which means that gang criminals will be deprived of Danish citizenship as far as possible when they have committed serious gang crimes, provided that the denial does not lead to statelessness. In fact, I fully agree with the authors of the motion that, when it is possible to deny persons convicted of serious gang crimes, their Danish citizenship, we must also be able to do so. At the same time, we are in agreement with some international conventions, including the stateless Convention and the Convention on the Rights of Nationals. It follows that we cannot deny statelessness and that disqualification can only take place in certain specified cases. This applies, among other things, when a person has acted in a manner which seriously harms the vital interests of the State. I think that is actually a good principle. Last year, the Government put forward a proposal to allow administratively to take the citizenship of persons of dual nationality who have acted to the grave detriment of Denmark's vital interests if this does not lead to statelessness. The purpose of this amendment was in particular to allow administratively to deprive foreign fighters located outside the country of their Danish nationality. Currently, in nine cases, we have deprived foreign fighters of their Danish citizenship on the basis of those rules. None of those who have been deprived of citizenship have entered Denmark so far. Five of the cases have been brought before the courts. I am very pleased that the new rules are being applied and, as you know, the government has also proposed that the sunset clause for the rules on administrative withdrawal be lifted so that we can also make future use of the rules. We have also dealt with this firsthand here in the Danish Parliament. As the government's legislative programme also shows, on the other hand, we will propose a bill to the effect that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark may, in the context of the decision of the criminal proceedings by judgment, be deprived of their Danish right of entry unless they become stateless. So I agree with the authors of the motion. However, the proposers also want the new rules to be implemented this year. In the spring of 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, launched the first reflections on the possibilities of strengthening the rules on the disqualification of citizenship within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. We are therefore also relatively far off with the draft law, but I must also be honest and say that we are not in the end, and therefore we cannot make the legislative proposal this year either. There are still some considerations to be considered, and we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. But that does not change the fact that we think it is a very relevant discussion that is being raised by the proposers here. We also hope that, if nothing else, we can get a good debate out of it today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183409	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183413	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reception. I should just like to ask the Minister for my own understanding: the Minister says that he is 100% in agreement with the proposal and that the only reason why the Minister cannot support it is that there is a wrong time frame or how can that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183432	Yes, that is my main argument, but as I also said in the speech, we must also be honest and say that the legislative proposal we are planning to submit to a hearing on the other side of New Year is not yet complete, and that is also because the legislative preparatory work is not complete and we are not finished with all the legal considerations either. That is why we want to be 100% sure of how such a thing should be put together before we commit ourselves to exactly how it should be presented and, in particular, when it should be presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183504	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183505	What prompted the Minister to start work on this bill in the spring, which the Minister now says he will come after New Year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183514	In February 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented a foreign policy programme which states that we want to explore the possibilities of depriving the citizenship of people who commit violent crime and drug crime. That is how I remember it on a stand-by basis. Therefore, it has been a bottom-up task for us to find out how we can pursue that election promise. This specific idea has then emerged in an interaction between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice sometime in the spring, and it has taken a lot of legal creativity to find out exactly how we're gonna get this screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183554	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183557	I would just like to give the Minister a good idea, because if it is really the case that the Minister is making a legislative proposal to enable gang members to be deprived of their citizenship, then I would say: what about making citizenship conditional? This is what the Danish People's Party has proposed several times, so that when you acquire citizenship, it is perhaps 10, 15, 20 years, conditional upon not committing this type of crime. Then it will be no problem to throw out gang members, at least for the first few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183635	But as a starting point, I feel that if people acquire Danish citizenship, they are Danish citizens. So if you had to put together a conditional arrangement, I think it had to be put together in a way that said: Now you have fulfilled all the conditions, and you have participated in the constitutional ceremony, and the Folketing has third dealt with a bill on which your name stood, but you are actually not a Danish citizen for 10 years, when for a 10-year period, let's say you have not committed serious crime. But in the 10-year period they would not have a Danish passport; they would not be Danish citizens. As soon as we say they are, the international conventions would say that it can only be taken away under exceptional circumstances, and then it should not be able to lead to statelessness, and so, for example, it should be. They have shown a course of action which seriously harms the vital interests of the State.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183727	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183728	That point brings me to the next question that I would like to ask: when are we going to start to put an end to the conventions that hinder us in this area? Because it is grotesque that both the Left and the Social Democrats are trying to look tough and say that they want to make some major changes, but they are moving within the conventions, and when you are within the conventions, you cannot do anything in this area. So when will the government or social democracy actually end the conventions so that we can expel people who commit serious crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183804	We have no ambition to withdraw from the conventions, but we have an ambition to test where their limits go. And that's one of them. by filling in the full framework of the possibilities offered by the conventions that the bill on foreign fighters was tabled last autumn and also the bill we are planning for New Year, which is about gang criminals. But regardless of whether there are conventions or not, I think that we should stop and consider: is it not a very good principle that when you have been granted citizenship, the starting point is that you are a Danish citizen and, to the extent that you commit serious crime, it will, as a starting point, have to be punished as against all other Danish citizens, unless it is something that really is about the vital interests of the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183846	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183849	Thank you. Well, it was precisely because the minister himself made it clear here in the end that, as a starting point, when you have become a Danish citizen, that is to say you have acquired Danish citizenship, you are a Danish citizen, and then it is not something we can just take from people again. That is why I am a little surprised that the Minister is expressing a desire to support this line of thought, for it is precisely the expression that you are not only being punished like other Danish citizens, but that you are even given a double penalty in relation to the fact that citizenship can be taken from you. Isn't there some concern about what kind of legal situation you're getting at that moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201183933	Maybe that's why I'm saying as a starting point. Because I actually believe that the international conventions have a good wording about it with the vital interests of the state. As a starting point, if you commit crime, also serious crime, then I think you should be punished like all other Danish citizens. If you have dual citizenship and have been involved in something that is really detrimental to the vital interests of the state, then I also think it is fair that a democratic society should reject it if you do not deny statelessness and have the opportunity, by judgment, to deny gang criminals the Danish nationality, in other words that in an attempt to protect the rule of law and Danish society we take Danish citizenship from people who have dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184024	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184025	But if you take the conventions, it's exactly where you're going, where you're going, where it's about sections 12 and 13 of the criminal code, that's terrorism and treason and something like that. Well, here we are talking about gang crime. We can already see the consequence of being excluded from citizenship if you have participated in gang crime. This means that a work that has been done once, which has been really stupid and for which one can also be punished, has lifelong consequences. Isn't that an unreasonable double sentence to add?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184101	I don't really think so. And without having to make me a judge: we have the Olsen gang on one side, and that is a form of organised crime, but I think we can all agree that it is not something that undermines the Danish rule of law and challenges Danish democracy. But I also believe that we have all heard about organised crime in southern Europe, for example. in Italy, which is not only common crime, but also challenges the rule of law and the pillars of democracy. And somewhere between the Olsen gang and the Sicilian mafia, I would have no doubt that there may be gang crimes which are also detrimental to the vital interests of the state. I think it is fair that in such cases we should reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184146	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so we are now starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184203	In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we must make high demands on people who wish to become Danish citizens, especially in relation to their ability to comply with Danish legislation and not commit crime. So I would like to thank the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution, because in social democracy we have zero tolerance for gang crime. We must always take citizenship away from gang criminals when and if that is possible. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution state that the government will have to implement such a legislative amendment by 2020, that is, by the end of 2020. Today it is 1 December and we can joke whether the proposers seriously expect us to have such a change of law in 31 days. We have a bill on the way, which will be tabled on the other side of New Year. With the bill, we propose to amend the law on citizenship so that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crimes which seriously harm Denmark's vital interests can be denied their Danish right of birth unless this results in their becoming stateless. We must do everything we can to combat gang crime within the framework of the Constitution and our international obligations. Band criminals terrorise not only entire residential areas, but also entire districts around Denmark. We must have a zero tolerance to such people. As we have a bill on the way, the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184317	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184320	I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly. Does the rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the Socialists, say that the reason why this motion for a resolution will not be supported is that the legislative process will then be too quick? Is it seriously meant by all the legislation we have in no time rushed through with the Social Democracy at the helm? And then it is believed that a legislative proposal which has been working on apparently since sometime in the spring has not been reached this year. Is it serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184355	After all, the Minister has just explained to Mr. Morten Dahlin on why and when this proposal came up and what it was that first came up in relation to the discussion about what was first supposed to lead to the loss of citizenship. So, sir. Morten Dahlin just got an explanation from the minister. There's no difference between it and what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184413	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184414	Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur if the rapporteur himself can see the commotion that the Socialists are now saying that it would be too fast to implement this legislation this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184427	As the Minister explained before, there are some legal problems in this, among others. by taking citizenship from people if they have no other citizenship. And there may be other things about it. Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Morten Dahlin the floor, and then I can prepare him for a question now, namely that one could ask why the Left has not done so, if it was so easy when one had power for four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184451	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184455	Well, I would just like to hear the reflection on the fact that in this way you are introducing some kind of extra punishment. It is, as in the conventions, an extra penalty that is reserved for it to commit crimes under Article 12 or Article 13 of the Criminal Code. That is what is being extended here to include gang crime. Is there not some kind of legal uncertainty in relation to the fact that in this way we are introducing a double sentence which will apply to lifelong life, that is to say, both to those who commit gang crime and are thus excluded from citizenship, but also to those who then commit gang crimes as Danish citizens and who can then be completely disfellowshipped from their Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184538	If there are such serious cases that there is a danger to the vital interests of the state, yes, then we believe that we should be able to lose citizenship. In the case of IS warriors, Enhedslisten never thinks so, and that is a fair enough view, but we may look differently at how to protect the citizens of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184553	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184554	I assume that we agree that if you commit gang crimes, you must be punished and the punishment you, as a Danish citizen, are punished with, I suppose, is also a reasonable punishment. Now there are some here who get an extra penalty, and that is where you can say that there will be a difference in terms of how we will punish citizens according to their background.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184618	Yes, there is also in relation to people who have been foreign fighters, and there is, as I said, Enhedslisten quite generally against it. And there we just have a different view of when the vital interests of the Danish state are threatened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184630	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Marie Krarup, and that is because the rapporteur from the Left is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184659	In the Danish People's Party we think it is a very good idea, namely that you want to be tough, that you want to be tough on criminal foreigners and that you want to take citizenship away from them. We are very pleased that the Left is so interested in showing such a lion's attitude towards criminal immigrants. We are also pleased that the Social Democrats want to do so. What is then just a little grotesque is that when it comes to the export itself, it is such a chicken-like thing and not very liony, because if you are so keen to follow all the international conventions, you can hardly do anything. But I don't think I can even say a chicken pip. That's why this is a blow to the air. It may seem so immediately to look really strong, tight and alien critical, but it is really nothing. But a little is right, and that is why we want to support it. But we do not think that it is enough, and we will propose what we have put forward on several occasions as a proposal in this Chamber, and that is the proposal to have citizenship conditional for a period of time. It can be discussed whether it should be 10 or 20 years, when you will then of course be deprived of citizenship, if you commit serious crime, as gang crime must of course be regarded as. We think this is much more effective and can make a greater difference. So even if it is a chicken proposal, we would like to vote in favour of it, but we would just like the Left to understand that this is only very, very little, but a little is also right. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184856	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201184912	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left does not support the proposal for the withdrawal of citizenship from gang crime. There are two points of view. Firstly, there are contractual considerations and, secondly, considerations relating to the Court of Human Rights. The Convention considerations are a question of whether gang crime is a threat to the security of the state. The Radical Left is somewhat incomprehensible to the resolution, as previous governments have said that we are bound by the conventions and can only deprive citizenship to the extent that actions can seriously harm the interests of the state. And previous governments have considered it in such a way that gang crime is not to be regarded as a crime against the state. With regard to the recitals to the Court of Human Rights, it makes very poor sense for the Radical Left to implement legislation which means that we will subsequently lose cases before the Court of Human Rights. Then why? It is simply that we run the risk that this might mean that the state will have to pay compensation to gang members, that is. Convicted by the gang section. In summary, the Radical Left is simply opposed to the proposal, and we recall that it has so far been felt politically that it is not possible to do so and that, in terms of the convention, it has been thought that gang crime is not a threat to the security of the state. We look forward to the work of the committee, but the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185137	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185140	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Although I am sorry that the Radical Left does not support the proposal, I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to IFU, alm. Part 2 answers to questions 110 from the 2019-20 parliamentary year, in which it is clear that you can take away Danish citizenship from gang members with dual citizenship if they have committed gang crime of such a nature that it is in conflict with the vital interests of the Danish state. I understand that the rapporteur does not believe in that answer. Could the rapporteur then explain here today from Parliament's platform why it is that the Ministry of Justice is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185231	It is the view of the Radical Left that this exclusion, as far as gang members are concerned, is not covered by the provisions of the criminal code which refer to the safeguarding of state security, namely, Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185251	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185253	But that's not what I asked. The Radical Left disagrees with the Ministry of Justice. Can the Radical Left not explain where it is and why the Radical Left believes that the Ministry of Justice is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185306-2	Thank you very much. I do not want to say that the Ministry of Justice is wrong, but I also understand from the Minister that there are challenges, so it may be that the Ministry of Justice is also thinking right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185331	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185342	Thank you. Nor can the SF support the proposal. In fact, we think this is a rather strange kind of outbid policy, as we really consider the government's proposals to be quite comprehensive in this area, and we see no reason to rush through the discussion of something so important and technical by 2020. We do not understand the need for this. We have, for example. There is no time to get an assessment of how to ensure that we stay within the conventions, although it is supposedly possible to do so. So we cannot support this proposal, but we look forward to the discussion with the government when we get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185432	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so we move on to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185448	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the proposer and Mr. Morten Dahlin so far that gang crime is deeply problematic and that therefore it is something that we in the Enhedslist take very seriously and will do what we can to combat. In the Enhedslist, we believe that serious crimes, including gang crimes, must be punished. Suspects must be brought to justice, they must have a fair trial and, if they are found guilty, they must, of course, be punished subsequently. However, a judgment in a case of involvement in gang crime should not be decisive in maintaining Danish citizenship. When you have endured your punishment, you have paid your debts to Danish society. The proposal here must understand that a sharpened penalty, namely the withdrawal of Danish citizenship, should be an incentive for a hard-boiled gang member to change his plans for the future. We don't believe that. I and Enhedslisten believe that what solves the problems is more close and local police, more preventive work and better exit programmes. That is what research points to, and that is why, of course, we think that is the way to go. The proposal here does not make Denmark a safer place to live. The threat of losing citizenship does not make gang members law-abiding citizens, and the notion that we can eliminate serious gang crimes with a criminal conspiracy or by depriving gang members of citizenship is a utopia. Over the past many years, the Folketing has introduced one tightening after another, but in terms of reducing gang crime it is clearly a completely wrong approach. Unfortunately, it does not seem that neither the government nor the proposers have any other idea of how to solve the problems of gang crime. We have it in the Enhedslisten, and of course you should be very welcome to come and steal our policy. In the Enhedslisten we do not see this proposal as part of the solution and therefore we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185657	Thinks sir. Peder Hvelplund is not afraid that gang members with dual citizenship fear to be expelled from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185708	I believe that what is most important in the fight against gang crime is, of course, that if you commit gang crime, you are brought to justice and punished for it, but most importantly, we are also doing preventive work to prevent young people from going into gang crime. That is why I am not so concerned about what people fear, but more about what we can give them of opportunities to avoid getting into gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185734	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185735	Thinks sir. Peder Hvelplund is not afraid that gang members with dual citizenship fear to be expelled from Denmark? The reason I'm asking exactly the same question is that sir. Peder Hvelplund did not answer my first question. The reason I'm asking is also that if Mr. Peder Hvelplund answers yes to that, so Mr. Peder Hvelplund also had his own argument from before that this shouldn't have an effect. In the Left we are quite convinced that some of the things they fear most are to be expelled from Denmark, and therefore this is a step on the road to ensuring that there is a consequence to those who create insecurity in our residential areas, those who create insecurity for families and for Danes on the street, namely some of the hardest-boiled gang criminals in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185815	When I didn't answer it before, it's because for good reasons I don't know what gang members fear. On the other hand, I know what the research shows about what works when it comes to preventing gang crime. There's no such thing as action like this. Other measures have been taken. Therefore, I am more concerned with looking at what the research shows is working than imagining what gang members might possibly be fearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185843	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185846	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like to ask whether there is anyone in the Enhedslist who believes it is fair enough to take the citizenship of terrorists, Syrians, in other words people who have committed very, very serious crimes and turned their backs on Denmark. Is there anyone where Enhedslisten thinks that here it is actually fair enough to look at whether you still have to be a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201185905	The rapporteur himself now mentions a large number of crimes that can be committed. It is, of course, within the framework of international conventions that citizens can be deprived of citizenship if they act against the vital interests of a state. That is what is also possible in the legislation today in breach of Chapter 12 and Chapter 13 on treason and terrorism. There is the possibility of depriving citizenship. If what the rapporteur is asking for is such a more general, fundamental consideration in relation to it, I will not deny that citizenship can be taken from people who violate Chapter 12 or Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code. But I am, in fact, more concerned with looking at how we can ensure that we punish people for the crime they have committed and that in this way we prevent crimes from being committed, rather than actually taking the citizenship of a given citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190000	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190003	Thank you. That is to say, it can only be in the individual case that it is Syrian squires. It is just to understand when we can agree that something is so gross and so dangerous that it is reasonable to take citizenship from people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190026-2	The rapporteur himself is now beginning to talk about Syrian warriors. What was in the specific legislation on Syrians was, of course, that Danish citizens could be deprived of their nationality by administrative means, without there being any specific judicial review of it. This has nothing to do with violating Chapter 12 or Chapter 13. I said before that I cannot deny that it is possible to do so, but that is not the case with Syrians. It is not people who have been convicted. These are people we judge, only from where they have been, and then we take citizenship away from them without having them tried in court and without being punished for the potentially serious crimes they have committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190105	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the line of rapporteurs, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190114	Thank you, sir. President. I'll make it brief and good. We Conservatives think this is a very good proposal. With Søren Pape as Minister of Justice, our former government was very hard on the rise of gang crime in this country. I think that when you just take a look at Sweden and see how wrong things have gone there because there has not been any hard work, you can see that we must be very happy with that effort. This proposal is a very good and fine extra step in the right direction. The only thing that, of course, annoys us Conservatives a little is that you don't go a little further. After all, we believe that gang criminals should not have Danish citizenship at all in the first place. We would have liked the Social Democracy and the Left and all of course here in the Danish Parliament to support the fact that anyone with a prison sentence did not get Danish citizenship at all. Everything else is equally easier to make sure that people do not get Danish citizenship to start food than to take it from people afterwards. But with these words we can say that we wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190211	Thank you. There was just a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190218	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the fact that if you have committed crime, you should not be able to have Danish citizenship at all. Now I am aware that this is not what we are discussing here today, but is it in the view of the rapporteur that any form of crime should exclude a Danish citizen with permanent residence from being able to obtain citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190242	I'm sorry if I wasn't ready enough. Now we have debated it so many times in Parliament that I kept it in broad terms. In concrete terms, our proposal is that if you have received a prison sentence, conditional or unconditional, you should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190256	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190258	But that will also mean that citizens who have committed a crime which leads to a conditional or unconditional sentence will potentially be punished for it for the rest of their lives. Is it in line with such a conservative view of law that one can commit one stupidity early in one's life, and then that excludes one from being a citizen for the rest of your life?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190325	After all, we believe that Danish citizenship is something very special, and if you are a foreigner living in this country and committing crime, then we only think that it is quite fair that you should not have Danish citizenship, at least if you are given a prison sentence. It is not the same as being thrown out of the country; you can stay in the country for the rest of your life with permanent residence. We just think that the Danish passport is something special and that you should not have it if you have received a prison sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190350	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190352	Would the rapporteur not just confirm that it is the case today that if you have committed gang crimes, you cannot become a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190402	I think that is correct, depending on what the category is of that gang crime. But basically, it would be good to go one step further. Many who end up in gang crime start with less crime and maybe get one more prison sentence and then another, and then quietly they get sucked into this gang environment. If it is the case that you just got the first prison sentence before you risk being sucked into the gang environment and then get a Danish citizenship that the Left here will be able to take from people, then it is easier just to put the bar a little lower and say that criminals with a prison sentence cannot get Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190440	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions and we go further in the series of rapporteurs. It is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190455	The first thing I thought when I saw the Left's proposal was that the Left was now finally ready to take away citizenship from those who commit crime. The figures show that although non-Western descendants with Danish citizenship were only 2.8%. of the population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per head of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year of population per year That is why, of course, action is needed. However, I am very unsure how many proposals from the Left will exactly be included, as much is needed before we are judged by that provision, both serious gang crime and also crime, which is so serious to the detriment of Denmark's vital interests. I have not been able to see from the proposal how many will be affected by it. I am aware that no one has been able to answer it either; it may be that the rapporteur can do so later. But probably it will be very few, perhaps none at all, as the provision is extremely narrow. And this proposal is actually a class example of why New Citizens were founded at all. It is an example of how, among the bourgeois parties, proposals that look tight and tough on the surface, but which are really patchy solutions that do not solve the problems from the bottom up. It is okay to tighten up the legislation here, and we are tabling an amendment to ensure that those included in this resolution, of course, must lose citizenship, whether they become stateless or not. For New Citizens, it is more important to ensure the safety and security of the Danes than to safeguard obsolete conventions. We are chosen by the Danes to look after Denmark, and we do. But, of course, we want to go much more effectively than this motion for a resolution. In fact, we really want to solve the problems from the bottom up... no more patching solutions. The position of new citizens is quite clear: criminal foreigners must not only be denied citizenship, they must be expelled consistently and after the first sentence, and then those who have been granted Danish citizenship by law and subsequently receive an unconditional sentence of liberty must be denied their Danish citizenship by judgment and deported. In addition, Danish citizenship should not be granted to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, which we have statistical evidence of far more crime than Danes when they come here. We are voting in favour of this resolution; after all, it is a tiny step in the right direction. However, we still want to resolve the problems from scratch instead of all these patch solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190759	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, but he's not here. I've registered Mr. Knox. Sikandar Siddique as rapporteur on the question and nothing else. Is that correct? It's also on B 47. Thank you. Then we go to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, Mr von der Vring. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201190827	Thank you for the floor and thank you very much for the debate, and also for what I see as the support of the majority of Parliament's parties, at least for the ideas behind the proposal. As I have seen it, the blue parties are voting in favour, and the Social Democrats are in favour, but they are still voting against. It is then beyond my intellectual capacity to fully understand why, but leave it alone. In my view, there is broad support for the intentions behind the proposal. There is enough because for too long we have allowed criminal gangs to put the agenda in the Danish streets. We have seen how they draw a trail from crime, violence and dominant behavior. Previously, this type of organized gang crime was reserved for the rockers, but especially in the last few years, the immigrant gangs have started to fill more and more. We do, for example. seen with the gang Loyal To Familia, who in record time fired up and with an unprecedented degree of organization quickly spread their violence and brutality throughout Danish society. Fortunately, our skilled police and some long prison sentences were severely broken by the LTF, and now the Østre Landsret has also confirmed the ban on the gang and thus the dissolution of the gang. That's good, but it's not enough. I think we need to do more because there are more gangs and there are more gang members, and we know that these people's greatest fears are to be thrown out of Denmark. Although they spend all their awake hours fighting the society in which they live, for some strange reason they like to be here and as long as they are Danish citizens, we cannot throw them out. Therefore, before the summer holidays, I asked the government to investigate whether it was possible to deprive gang criminals of dual citizenship. It took a little time to get the answer, it actually took more than 4 months, but when the answer finally came, it was positive. It said you can do it. And as soon as we got that answer, we immediately put forward this proposal, because we need to speak the only language these people understand, and that is consistency and would like to be a tough one. I do not imagine that this proposal solves all the problems, but it is a step in the right direction, and that is why I am pleased with the great support. So thank you for the debate, thank you for your support, and thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191052	There's a question. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191057	Thank you so much. I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur how many people will actually be included in this with the fact that you have to be both a gang criminal and that it has to be so gross that it is a danger to the vital interests of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191116	I wish I could answer Mrs Mette Thiesen on that, but since I do not know who is going to commit what crime in the future, it is impossible for me to answer how many will actually be convicted after this. But if I'm gonna try to make a guess, I don't think it's thousands of people. But I would like to say that if there is just one person affected by this proposal, I think it is essential to do so. Because if we can eliminate one of these criminal gang members who create insecurity that creates crime and that has dominant behavior and creates insecurity for ordinary families in Denmark, then I think it is positive. But I just don't have the chance to look into the fortune teller and predict how many people are going to commit this serious crime. So, no matter how much I would like to, I simply cannot answer Mrs Mette Thiesen's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191201	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191203	If you make a resolution like this, you could have done your preparatory work and perhaps checked backwards whether someone had been convicted in relation to what should you say about both of these parts, as there is in the Left's proposal. But I can hear that the rapporteur has not done so, and that is what it is. Now the rapporteur is saying this: we have to do it if it hits just one and we completely agree on that, but why not just solve the problems from scratch? Why not just say that if one has been granted citizenship by law and gets an unconditional sentence of liberty, then citizenship goes? Isn't that just what we have to do? Isn't the Left just on board? Why will the Left not help solve the problems from scratch? Why are these always patching solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191243	Mrs Mette Thiesen should be most warmly welcome to disagree politically with me, and Mrs Mette Thiesen often does. However, Mrs Mette Thiesen should not be welcome to stand and insinuate that I am not doing my job or preparing the proposals I am making. When I choose to say to Mrs Mette Thiesen that I cannot answer Mrs Mette Thiesen's question, it is because I do not apparently, unlike the New Civil Service, have a fortune-telling ball that I can look into and see how many gang members are going to commit a certain type of crime, which then leads to a verdict on a legal basis that does not exist today. So Mrs Mette Thiesen may disagree with me, but I would like to reject Mrs Mette Thiesen's insinuation that I am not doing my job properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191321	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191323	I can only confirm that; I know only Mr. Morten Dahlin as someone who does his job in relation to this. But I would like to get to grips with the fortune - teller thing, for now Mr. Morten Dahlin earlier on whether or not I thought this was something that gang members feared, and of course we can only know that by its very nature, if that is how we look in a fortune-telling sphere. But that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin: Now that we know that there is also research that demonstrates that other initiatives have the greatest impact on reducing gang crime, why is this not the way we are going? That is surely the common objective we have of reducing crime and, above all, serious gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191406	Let me reply three things to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. First of all, thank you for the praise I sincerely appreciate. Secondly, if Enhedslisten has some brilliant suggestions for resolving gang conflicts, we are always happy to listen to them. Thirdly, I would like to say that we may not need a ball of fortune to see that this is something that the gang members fear. Because we can see from the trials of gang criminals who have a non-Danish nationality that they have struggled with beaks and claws to avoid being expelled from Denmark. They have done all they can to document a very great connection with Denmark, and have really taken care to say that they have practically nothing to do with the country in which they have citizenship, and I assume that is because they want to stay in Denmark. So there is really no need for a fortune teller; there you can go back and read the judgments and follow the cover that has been given to the various trials. And we have done so in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191502	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191504	Yes, but now we can say that the interesting thing is if it is something that prevents them from committing crime, that is, the fear of losing Danish citizenship. That is where the doubt can be, i.e. whether it is sufficient in itself to stop making crime in relation to the possibility of losing Danish citizenship. And that is where you can say that there are just some things that point to the fact that some other measures are needed, in other words, to ensure better exit programmes and to ensure that the younger generation that is comes out and gets leisure jobs and actually gets something they can start to lose rather than end up in gang crime. So does the rapporteur not agree with the fact that there are a large number of preventive measures that can be taken, which can help to reduce gang crime to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191549	Well, I actually don't see it as a either-or. I believe that a wise policy to combat crime is going on two legs, that is to say, a preventive leg, which is doing everything possible to ensure that as few people as possible are sucked into the gang environment and that as few as possible end up in the treadmills that later lead to gang crime. That's one leg. The second leg is, of course, a leg in which there is a consequence to those who do so, and thus also said that the leg that is the consequence can, of course, deter some from getting into it. So in the Left we don't see it as a either-or, but we actually see it as a boat-and.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191624	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. At any rate, no more questions have been put to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191642	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201191704	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution, which proposes that, as an additional condition for becoming a Danish citizen, a claim should be made that one should be married to a Danish citizen resident in Denmark, that the marriage should have lasted for three years before an application for a right of citizenship is made, and that the spouses should have lived together throughout the period. The granting of citizenship to foreigners is, after all, a gift, a declaration of trust from Danish society, and we therefore make high demands on those people who want to become Danish citizens. By the summer of 2018, the rules were tightened, among others. with the participation of the proposers' party, the Danish People's Party, and my own party, the Social Democratic Party. It is clear from the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party that the authors of the motion for a resolution include: believes that, in addition to the other conditions, it is also important to bear in mind that the applicants are well integrated in Denmark and that a marriage with a Danish citizen for at least 3 years will be a good indicator that Denmark will actually be an applicant. I agree with the proposers that it is important that an applicant is well integrated in Denmark and that he or she wants Denmark. That is also why we make relatively high demands to become a Danish citizen, among other things. a requirement for the length of stay in Denmark, self-reliance, language, knowledge of Danish social conditions, Danish culture and history, and for not having committed a wide range of crimes. But I would also argue, I would argue, that one can therefore also be well integrated without being married to a Danish citizen. My predecessor in the post, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, pointed out at the beginning of last year, when a similar motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party was dealt with in this Chamber, that by making this kind of demand that an applicant be married to a Danish citizen, we risk excluding a number of people who actually meet the requirements we have set for language and self-reliance, etc. We risk excluding a number of people who are well integrated and actually want our society simply because they have not succeeded in love, or for example. because the spouse in question is German or French, and I do not think that makes any sense. Here is just one example: in the last four legislative proposals we have dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber, i.e. the six-monthly legislative proposals in which we grant citizenship to a large number of named citizens, approx. 1,100 British citizens, and a large part of them are my best guess... have sought Danish citizenship following the whole discussion about brexit. Of these 1 100 British citizens, 300 of them have not had a Danish spouse either because they were not married at all or because their spouse had a different nationality, and so these 300 British people would not have had the opportunity to come to the bill if we had adopted this resolution, and I think that is not fair. I would actually go so far as to say that I think it would be a great pity if citizenship were to be excluded for persons who fulfil all other conditions, for the sole reason that they are single or that they live in a paperless relationship. That would also exclude children from being able to obtain Danish citizenship. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The Social Democrats did not support the resolution either, the last time it was tabled, and so we have not changed our position. However, as I have also said on previous occasions, we in the government are, of course, ready to discuss whether we have put the cut on the acquisition of citizenship in the right place. I am also thinking about this, and I expect that before Christmas we will be able to convene all the parties of the Folketing for a discussion on an adjustment of the existing rules so that we can start negotiations at the beginning of the new year. But this proposal will not be part of the government's plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192122	Thank you, Minister. Then we must hope that the Social Democratic Party agrees with the Minister, as the Minister has just said what the Social Democratic Party thinks. But we will hear that when the rapporteur comes to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192136	Since 1983, 250 000 citizenships have been given to people who have come to Denmark. Doesn't the Minister think that's too many? Does the Minister not think that there is a risk of population replacement if we do not hold back seriously? We in the Danish People's Party think so, and we think that this is a very good way to limit the number of people who can get citizenship as far as possible. We also want to see only one, I think, from here all the Britons that the Minister would like to welcome, because there are a great many of them who are seeking citizenship, who are actually doing it as something extra they want, and the question is whether it is reasonable. But they are not now a problem for the state, for those who are a problem for the state are, after all, the many with the Islamic background. And when you are married to a Dane, it is our opinion that it should not be automatic that you get citizenship. No! Then we have to vote on each person down here... each person has to be voted on in this Chamber... and there has to be a ceiling of 1,000 people. So it should not be the case that you have a free ticket to come to Denmark and get a Danish passport because you have married a Dane. We still have to vote on the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192256	I would like to start by saying that we are pleased with the possibility of obtaining dual citizenship and, as a starting point, we also think that the current rules for obtaining citizenship are excellent, although there is room for some improvement here and there. But I would agree with Mrs Marie Krarup that there have been periods in Danish history when too many citizenships were given on too lenient conditions, and unfortunately there is no need to dig quite far into the history books. When I was elected to the Danish Parliament in 2015, I joined the Committee on Birth Rights, and this started with three cardboard boxes landing in my office with a large number of cases about people seeking exemption from, among others. The language requirement, and their cases were accompanied by a lot of medical certificates, and it was stated in some of the medical statements that they had ptsd, and this meant as a starting point that they simply slipped through the Committee of Insights and got dispensation, although they might not even have tried to follow the teaching in Danish or had not tried to test at all. It is clear that this is no good, and fortunately we also got that tightened up, but it meant that during that period a lot of citizenship was given to people, and we do not have the slightest evidence that they could carry out an ordinary conversation in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192416	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192417	When you become a Danish citizen, you must of course be Danish in your heart, and what is a better test of whether you are, than that you want to marry someone who is a Dane in advance! We think there's something beautiful and good about that, knowing now that we have to choose from a whole lot of people. Changing citizenship is something profound, profoundly identity-based, and therefore we should not be able to have dual citizenship, in our opinion. This will be a really effective way of reducing the number of people who acquire citizenship. That is why it may upset me, of course, that the Minister will not support our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192500	Yes, but if at the age of 20 I had had a Danish wife and one of us got a job in the United States and we decided to move to the United States, have a family and have children, and maybe after 10 or 15 years in the United States, look each other in the eye and say: Well are we not becoming Americans, should we not seek American citizenship and let our children grow up as Americans in an American society? I think that should be an opportunity in the United States. And in the same way I think it should also be if two Americans came to Denmark and lived here, raised children in a family and became part of Danish society, so it should be possible for them to become Danish citizens, even if they were married to each other and perhaps sought citizenship at the same time. That's why I don't think it's such a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192546	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192548	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to start by pointing out to the Minister that when the Minister mentions this with the fact that there were cases with citizens with ptsd, it is because, according to the disability convention, if there are no other reasons, we have to do so. If there is a medical certificate that a citizen, for example. We have a duty to ignore the fact that they cannot take, for example. a Danish test 3. But what I wanted to ask the Minister is something else. I was glad to hear the Minister say that one could be a well-integrated citizen and obtain citizenship without being married to a Danish citizen for three years. But then the Minister also said earlier that it could be a good indicator that Danish citizenship should be acquired. Then I simply get curious to hear: How so? So, how can it be an indicator of whether you have a right to acquire citizenship, namely who you have married and married for three years? Isn't that a personal thing that you can achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192654	I am not quite sure that I understood the last part of the question. But if I have said something that is unclear, then I would like to make it clear that I do not think it should trigger a right or the opposite whether one is married to a Dane or not. But that is why, I think, it is a very good indicator of whether you have settled in a society, namely that if you have married someone who has lived in that society, then it is at least for me a picture that there is at least something from the society that you have embraced. You've married someone who's lived in that society and is part of that people. It should not in itself trigger a right or the opposite whether you have married a Danish citizen. I guess I'd better stay out of this... how the Danish Parliament gives birth rights today. After all, it is written in the Constitution that, as a minister, I should not have so much to do with it. But I can say that when I was sitting in the Folketing, I did not have the impression that there was a proper procedure for those who had applied for exemption for example. the Danish claim. I think that they slipped too easily through the Committee on Birth Rights without there having been a serious discussion of whether they had made an attempt at learning Danish at all, perhaps at a lower level than the requirement made in the circular.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192810	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192812	Now the Minister says again that this is a good indicator, and that is simply what I do not understand. In other words, seeking citizenship is certainly a personal act in which objective criteria can be set which the individual can meet. One may have been married or not married or lived with one, but how can one's partner get involved in one's qualifications, since some think that some of them are needed to become a Danish citizen? How can it get mixed up in that? Is it not a personal matter whether you want citizenship, and why should the fact that you are married and that you are a Danish citizen be involved in that relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192858	Now I'm just looking down on my speech here. So what I have said is that it is clear from the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party that the authors believe that it is in addition to the other conditions and so on. etc., but that would be a good indicator that you would actually want Denmark as an applicant. So I would also ask that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur perhaps put that question to the authors of the motion for a resolution. This does not alter the fact that my view is that it should have no impact on whether or not citizenship is sought. But I think it goes without saying that people who move to another country and marry someone from that country have already taken an important step towards integration, even a further step than if I would move to another country with my wife, who would also be a Danish citizen. I think that is, yes, very obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192939	Then we thank the Minister. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Thank you very much). We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, the Social Democratic Party, who is then given the opportunity, as rapporteur, to say whether the Social Democratic Party, after all, agrees with the Minister's interpretation of the position of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201192958	Thank you, President. I promise that it will be a bit like being at a group meeting in the Danish People's Party we are very much in line. In Social Democracy, we believe that we should celebrate love across skin color, ethnicity, culture and religion. I am delighted when I see two people walking on the street hand in hand, who have apparently come together despite ethnic and cultural differences. Because we only really reach the goal of integration when skin color, ethnicity, culture and religion do not stand in the way of love between two people. These parameters must never stand in the way of whom Danish citizens may marry. There are far too few mixed marriages in the Danish population, and in the Social Democratic Party we think that this is probably due to the fact that a number of girls with an immigrant background are not allowed to choose their boyfriend or spouse because their parents will not accept it. Several studies document that love across is forbidden in several immigrant environments at home. There is also some resistance to mixed marriages among parents of Danish origin, but not at all to the same extent as in the case of parents of Middle East origin. In addition, studies show that love across contributes to better integration of people originating in the Middle East. The knowledge of the Danish economy is improving and the labour market is becoming more accessible. Then pupils in primary school, whose parents have come together across, achieve significantly better grades than pupils whose parents both originate in the Middle East. There are therefore very positive effects when love trumps skin color, ethnicity, culture and religion. Love across should not be motivated by the prospect of obtaining Danish citizenship. And in social democracy, we will never be able to support certain advantages depending on who you marry. Instead, we believe that on the political side we must create the best framework for cross-border love. That is why we are actively combating negative social control in parallel societies. And as we proposed in our 2018 aliens initiative, we have a goal that in crèches, kindergartens, folk schools, colleges and residential areas maximum. Must be 30%. originating in the Middle East. Now we are in government and ready to take responsibility, and we have therefore translated the proposals from the project in 2018 into legislative proposals. This proliferation effort will ensure much better conditions for establishing both friendships and love across. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193201	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193205	In the Danish People's Party we consider Islam to be a very, very big barrier to integration. We regard the Muslim ghettos as a form of colonization of Denmark, where people bring or send for foreign spouses because you do not want to marry a Dane. There are some who, unfortunately, have already acquired citizenship, but there are also many who have not acquired citizenship. If you introduced this rule, we would make sure that such people who want to avoid getting in close contact with the Danish population and who therefore want to avoid that they or their children marry Danes do not get Danish citizenship. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that this would be a good and sensible measure?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193304	I agree very much with that with the ghettos, which is why it is also a happy day that the government has managed to significantly reduce the number of ghettos in Denmark, which has just been published today. That being said, this hits too wide. It also hits some German couple. They must then break up and meet another boyfriend in order to obtain Danish citizenship. I'm thinking it's going too far. Now I do not know the President must rebuke me how much reference can be made from the Committee on the Rights of the Child, but I can say that it is no secret that there are a number of cases with British citizens who want to have Danish citizenship. That would then be impossible for any of them with this proposal, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193336	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193338	Yes, there are several things to say to what I may not be able to do in 30 seconds. But in any case, it has to be said that many of those who are seeking citizenship right now, from other European countries, who are doing so for technical reasons and who may not do so because they deeply feel that they are Danish. So it is because they can have dual citizenship. So if you only had citizenship, you might not be looking. That's one. The second is that it would be very sensible to make a derogation, so that, for example, if you were to make a derogation, you would be able to do so. If we had been 30 years in the country, this would not be the case, and what we also want is that we should vote on each individual in this Chamber, so that we will always have the opportunity to say 'no' and 'yes' to the citizenship of different people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193431	I get it. I just think it sounds very bureaucratic. It is like the fact that you can obtain conditional citizenship, and then in ten years' time you will know if you become a citizen. I still think this is going too far, and it's going to hit others too. Then we can discuss whether there are English citizens who, because of brexit all of a sudden, are looking, but there are also quite a lot of others, among others. a number of German citizens who have lived so long in Denmark that they sincerely feel that they are Danes. It's gonna hit them too, and I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193454	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Mr Morten Dahlin, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193505	Thank you for that, President. Being a Danish citizen is a privilege, it is a gift that you can get from the Danish people, but it is not just an ordinary gift that so many other people get here at Christmas time. Maybe it's the most precious gift of all. Therefore, demands must be made on those who want to pick up the red beet passport from the municipality and it must be strict requirements. They must be able to speak Danish, they must accept the Danish values, they must show knowledge of the Danish society, they must stay away from crime, and they must, of course, support themselves. Although we think it is good when people with immigrant backgrounds marry Danish citizens and it's really good that we don't think it's fair that you should have luck in love to become a Dane. It is not everyone who succeeds in finding a husband or a wife, or for that matter everyone who wants to live in a marriage. And in the Left, we do not think that it should be individual love relationships that should determine whether one can become a Danish citizen. You can be just as Danish, you can bleed red and white, and you can have taken Denmark into your heart without necessarily being married to a Dane. So in the Left we would like to send the signal that we think it is excellent that we think it is very good when people with a foreign background marry Danes, that we support strict rules in order to obtain citizenship, and that we also want to support rules that are stricter than today, but we cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193651	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193701	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left does not support the motion for a resolution. We have two crucial objections to the proposal: firstly, discrimination and, secondly, a recital on mental control. With regard to the opposition, which is about discrimination, it states that there must be equality before the law and that there must be general access. The proposal to marry Danish to become a Danish citizen is not compatible with the current obligations of the European Convention on Civil Liberties. The European Convention must be understood as meaning that there is general access to citizenship, and Radicals understand the fact that there is discrimination in this respect against people who are already married. The Radical Left believes that citizenship must be achieved through its own efforts, and that is why it seems to us to propose a condition requiring the participation of another person. In addition, the Radical Left considers that the proposal involves mental control or social control. As you know, social control is a problem that the Radical Left wants to combat, and that applies whether it is social control as described by author Sara Omar, or whether it is mind control as described by author Hans Kirk in the book The Fishers. We look forward to the work of the committee and the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193903	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193907	I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that there is no general access to citizenship in Denmark. According to the Danish constitution, we have to vote on this. This also means that it is not one's own pursuit that meets the admission requirement for citizenship. There you must have persuaded not just one person, but 179. So it's just to draw attention to it. We want to tighten it up so that one person has to say extra good for it, but it is entirely in line with the legislation we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201193944	Point taken. Yes, it is quite true that there are 179 Members. So my point is more about emphasising the individual, the individual way of acting in a society, for example. collectivism or tribal mentality. The Radical Left emphasizes the individual that it is one's own pursuit that is in focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194026	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194028	I'd really like to be the heir to the Mærsk Mc-Kinney fortune. I would like to strive for that. But I don't think I'll be until there's a man who wants to marry me. I don't think that's gonna happen, because I'm already married, and I don't know if there are any single men there who are heirs. But it's just to say that when you get citizenship, you become a member of the Danish family. And you can't just have the right to do that. It's gonna take something extra. It requires someone to reach out, embrace you, and we think that in the literal sense one should transfer to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194106	Yes, the Radical Left understands the value struggle waged by the Danish People's Party, but at the same time the Radical Left then has a fight for the rule of law and the rule of law. And to be a little bold, I would like to say that I think that the proposal also reminds a little bit of the story of Noah's Ark, where one should also be a couple. You couldn't come unless you were a couple.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194138	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194154	Thank you. The Folketing doesn't have to decide who we fall in love with. The Folketing doesn't have to decide who we fall in love with and who we marry. We should not dictate, and neither should Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party, whom you fall in love with and marry. And why shouldn't we? We should not do so, because that is what we call social control, and I know exactly the kind of social control that, for the Danish People's Party and Mrs Krarup, makes an incredibly great contribution to saying they want to fight. With the proposal here, Mrs Marie Krarup and the Danish People's Party exhibit their hypocrisy in relation to the discussion on social control, by simply forcing people to fall in love with certain people before they can become a full member of Danish society. I am furious to say so, because we in the SF fully share the view that there is a need to combat social control and the desire of the Danish People's Party and other parties in this Chamber to do so. We are extremely aware of the fact that there is social control and that we must take action against it. It cannot be right for women, regardless of their minority, to be forced into marriages that they do not want, to be told by family members who they may fall in love with. But they certainly shouldn't be told by the Folketing either. That is what we in the SF have to say to that proposal, and that is why we do not support it under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194352	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194357	It could be that SF would support it if they understood it. It sounds a bit like the rapporteur has got it a little wrong, because of course the Folketing cannot decide who people should fall in love with or marry, but the Folketing can decide who should have citizenship. That's one. The second is that life is filled with social control. There is social control everywhere. The kind of social control that we in the Danish People's Party are opposed to is the religious Islamic social control that deprives people who live in Denmark of this country, which is characterised by freedom, and which is a rule of law, where things take place according to certain rules and all the freedoms for religious reasons. We will fight that as much as we can. This is one of the ways to do it. It is by introducing this aggravating provision on how to come up with a bill to be granted citizenship, because by doing so we will reduce the number of people from Muslim countries with a Muslim background, because then there are a lot fewer of those who will marry a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194508	I fully share the view that religions and cultures should not dictate who to marry, even against ethnic minority women or others who are under social control. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. But I am astonished that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party cannot see that this particular proposal is guilty of exactly the same thing. Then it may well be that Mrs Marie Krarup sweeps away the fact that we make a lot of demands on people seeking citizenship, and that is not because we dictate who to look in love with; we just dictate that if you are going to have citizenship, you have to be Danish married. That is exactly what is happening in the ethnic minority environments where we see social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194602	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194604	Exactly not. It's completely misunderstood. This is done by rules. It does not happen according to an unwritten standard, where one is disfellowshiped or punished or something by violating it. If we get this rule in place, it'll be a completely transparent rule that everyone will know and you won't be punished in strange religious ways. It will be part of our system in our Danish rule of law. It will not be social control of any opaque rules and opaque penalties, at all. So it's completely misunderstood. It is an attempt to ensure that Denmark remains Danish. We are seriously threatened. And it is of course a pity that you have to propose such rules in order to maintain Denmark as a Danish country. But we're under threat. 250,000 citizenships have been distributed since 1983. It's a disaster. It's a population replacement we're in the process of. It's awful.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194707	Social control will not be improved by making it a law. I am not going to be more in favour of dictating who people marry or have to fall in love with to become full members of Danish society just because we make it a law and thus make it part of our rules. I do not understand why Mrs Marie Krarup cannot see the double standards of what she says. It's really very strange for me. So it's gonna be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194735	Thank you from here to the rapporteur, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194745	Thank you for that, President. Nationality is an important right for citizens who live and live their lives here in Denmark. It is the right to vote in parliamentary elections, it is access to the Danish passport which makes it easy to travel, and for many people this is not least a symbolic recognition that they are full members of Danish society. For Enhedslisten, therefore, it is an important goal that people who have permanent residence and are likely to live and live their entire lives in this country can acquire citizenship. It is an important tool for integration and cohesion, and it is important for our democracy that as many people as possible contribute to the composition of the Folketing. That is why we want citizenship to be easier to achieve than it is today. In 2015 and 2018 significant restrictions have been made on access to becoming a Danish citizen. The Enhedslisten is outside the agreements on these tightenings, and we want to relax the rules on the first occasion. The constant tightening means that in this country there is a growing group of people without Danish citizenship and thus without the full civil rights. We do not think this is good for our society. Today we are discussing a very far-reaching proposal which forms part of the so-called Christian cultural struggle of the Danish People's Party. It is a proposal that will exclude all foreigners who are not married to a Danish citizen and have not been for a number of years from becoming Danish citizens. This, of course, cannot be supported by Enhedslisten, both because it is a serious discrimination against both children, of foreign married people and also of unmarried people, but also because there is certainly no need for any further tightening of the right to become a Danish citizen. So to sum up: Enhedslisten believes we should go a completely different way and set up rules that allow for easier access to citizenship, and Enhedslisten does not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201194958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. We'll move on to the next one, and that's sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195010	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a fine proposal with some very good intentions, namely to safeguard Danish citizenship and to whom we give it. The protection of Danish citizenship is something that we Conservatives really care about. We have also made many proposals here in the Parliamentary Chamber recently, including with the support of both the New Civil and the Danish People's Party, and of course we are very, very happy about that. However, we do not think that the proposal, as it is here, hits where we want to hit. I believe that examples have already been used here from the platform before: if you are the most well integrated Norwegian who has lived his entire life in Denmark and just choose not to get married, should it be something for which you are punished in the eyes of the goose? Or: What about some of those who already live in Denmark, but who unfortunately have Therefore we Conservatives would rather do what we have debated before, namely that part of the process to get the Danish passport is that you have to have a conversation. We discussed it in committee. That is what we are doing, for example. in a country such as Austria, and I also believe countries such as Ireland and Switzerland. And of course it is not a perfect system, but in doing so we must assess whether it is a person who has actually taken Denmark into account. The intention must be that we do not give citizenship to people who do not want Denmark. That is also what the proposal is proposing here. We just think our solution is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195150	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195153	Thank you for your speech and thank you for your partial support, if I may say so. I just need to hear something; there is one thing I want to clarify. The Conservatives want to appear like some people who want to be really tough on this issue. Will you support a proposal from the Danish People's Party to abolish the possibility of dual citizenship? Because we have to face up to the fact that for many people it is not a deep decision of identity to get Danish citizenship; it is this because of convenience. It's very nice to have more passports, isn't it? And it is especially so if something happens in connection with brexit. Well, it's not this big profound change in your life where you say: Now I'm a Dane, and my heart beats a little more when I see Dannebrog than when I see Union Jack or something else. And that would be achieved if the possibility of dual citizenship were removed, and we think that is the right thing to do. Will you Conservatives support that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195254	In fact, we think that in recent years there have been some very good examples that we have just been able to expel people because they have Danish citizenship. I understand what the questioner thinks, but the fact that you have citizenship does, of course, mean that we have been able to expel criminals whom it would otherwise have been almost impossible for us to expel. And I think we should hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195313	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195315	It is, after all, a small positive thing about dual citizenship. That is the only positive thing, and the second is that it is not going to be this serious decision, that is, where you really need to think. Something else is that you can easily live in Denmark for many years. I know several people who are, I would say, almost Danish, but who do not want Danish citizenship, at least only as an extra, if it should be because they are still away, even if they have lived in Denmark for many years, deep down feel like Germans, Englishmen, Russians, or whatever it is. So why is it that it has to be so easy, if I may say so, to have Danish citizenship, as an extra citizenship? I have to admit, I can't quite follow that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195408	It should not be easy, and we want massive tightening up in this area not only in relation to criminals, which we have had a good collaboration with the Danish People's Party and New Citizens about, as do the two parties when it comes to our proposal to be able to properly Danish and also to be able to come to a conversation. We also think that it is a challenge with the far too many on transfer income, which counts as actually in employment. In other words, we want to tighten up massively in a wide range of areas, and I look forward to doing so together, hopefully, when we come to the negotiations on Danish citizenship here at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195442	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195500	Too many have over the years been granted Danish citizenship by law, which should not have had it. Guests from Muslim countries have been granted protection status as refugees, have been made immigrants with permanent residence permits, and several thousand of them are made Danish citizens every year. The requirement for candidates for Danish citizenship has proved quite inadequate. The proportion of members of Muslim immigrant gangs with Danish citizenship should make all alarm bells ring. The proportion of immigrant women in crisis homes is another pointer, and the new focus on negative social control points in the same direction. There is no guarantee of prior assimilation in the Danish rules on the granting of citizenship, and there should be. Therefore, the problems of violence and pressure for Islamic influence in society will grow in the years to come until the parliamentary politicians find out that a plug in the hole has to be put in. The damage must be stopped and the repair work must begin. We have done too little to protect our society from the damaging effects and violence that accompany Islamic culture and ideology. The granting of citizenship to immigrants from Muslim countries who are over-represented in crime statistics will, with unerring certainty, make the problems worse and the consequences for the security, security and freedom of the Danes greater. That is the state of affairs, and that has been the case for many years. That is why I understand the purpose of the DF's motion for a resolution that we are debating today. I fully share DF's concern about developments, and I agree that Danish society is at risk of permanent and irreparable damage if we do not stop granting citizenship to immigrants from the countries that are causing us problems, that is, from most of the countries that have a Muslim majority. But I am not convinced that it solves any problem that one must be Danish married in order to become a Danish citizen. There are tens of thousands of Danish citizens naturalized by an irresponsible Parliament, who today place the Koran above the constitution, and who under no circumstances can be described as Danish in the heart and mind. They can continue to marry foreigners who can become Danish citizens over time, and that problem does not address the resolution at all. In addition, the proposal will quite openly hit some people who will be the victims of our society's need to protect us from the influence of Islam. I accept that when we have to solve immigration policy from scratch, rules will have to be implemented that will also hit unintentionally. It can't be avoided. The fatal immigration policy that has been conducted in here for decades cannot be repaired without it. That's the way it is. However, if the proposal does not solve the immigration policy from scratch, yes, insofar as it is merely a light version of New Citizens' more consistent policy, then I do not think that we can support this proposal, which will probably instead just put some people unnecessarily in a position to do so, and therefore New Citizens cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195834	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195837	It is, of course, a pity that, because of the policy of such clean hands, we cannot support pragmatic proposals which can actually make a difference. This is what the Danish People's Party has done, and that is why Denmark does not have Swedish conditions • that we have always gone in and screwed where it is possible to screw. And here is also a place where we can screw up and where we can say that this number of people is the ones who can get on the law and we want a maximum of 1,000 citizenships per year, and they have to be allocated individually. And the people who can be talked about must be those who are married to a Dane. That also means that those from Muslim parallel societies who then marry someone who comes from outside will be able to be dissuaded when we vote on them down here. So it's true that there's this cat door for Muslim immigrants who are not integrated and do not want to be integrated, that they can marry a resident Turk who has acquired Danish citizenship, but we will be able to vote against them here in the Assembly Hall. So, in this way, it is a proposal that will really restrict access to the colonisation and Islamisation that is done through citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201195957	Well, we would rather solve the problems from scratch, and we would rather say that with our policy we are voting against all those who come from Muslim countries and who we know are over-represented in crime statistics. It is quite simple, so we maintain that we want to do so, and we will also vote for it in the future. We are also going to relate to the fact that we are looking at each individual • whether we believe that it is someone who will benefit Denmark. So we actually believe that this would be a relaxation rather than a tightening-up, compared to the fact that we want to solve the problems from the bottom up. And that will be done if we ensure that we do not give citizenship to those who come from Muslim countries and who we know are over-represented in crime statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200048	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200049	And these are proposals that we have been making and have been making all along. But it's a bit awkward to listen to that fog talk from New Citizen that you want it 100 percent right away, instead of trying to screw where it can be done, and with the small step policy hopefully going to the finish, instead of saying: Well we won't touch anything that isn't a hundred percent. It no longer exists because there is already that which is the accident. While the MEPs of the new citizens voted for parties that allowed that immigration and we voted against it, it was that the accident happened which we are trying to rectify.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200134	Therefore, it would also make very good sense for us to resolve the problems together from the bottom up rather than keep making patchy solutions. And I very much look forward to that being done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200148	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200203	Thank you for the floor. If the Danish People's Party had 90 seats, we would change the way of obtaining citizenship in Denmark to the following procedure: you have to meet all the requirements we already have, that is. language, citizenship test, no crime, self-reliance and stay in the country. On top of that, we want to leave it to be married to a Danish citizen and to give up your old citizenship and perhaps to have a personal screening interview. When you meet these requirements, you will be able to apply for citizenship. After that, the people here in the Folketing will be voted on individually. In this way, as a politician, as a party, we can vote against those who, for example, are opposed. comes from Muslim culture and has just married into a Muslim parallel society, which we unfortunately have some of in Denmark. At the same time as we want to introduce the restrictions mentioned, we will also limit the upper number of citizenships to a maximum of 1,000 per person. years. That is what we would introduce if we had 90 mandates. However, we would also continue to provide for the possibility of applying for a derogation, because there are, of course, always special cases which cannot be covered by standard rules. Many people have criticised this proposal in the media. Some believe that it is a hysterical attempt to tighten too much, and others believe that it is a relaxation. The funny thing is that it is actually an old proposal that we are resubmitting because we think it is so good ourselves. But it was actually discussed in this same thing in January 2019. Since 1983, 250,000 Danish citizenships have been granted. I do not know what feelings it arouses in the members of this high thing, but to me it is frighteningly many. I see it as an irresponsible act that a large majority in the Folketing has distributed so many citizenships. History will judge us. If you ask the question of which of these people has really become Danish, we really do not know. In my opinion, the answer must be: far from everyone. But there are also various reasons for granting citizenship. My opinion is that only those who are really Danish in their hearts can become a Danish citizen. But there are some who think that, in order to be really, really good and really, really neighborly lovers, we just have to hand out citizenships. One should then remember that there are others who are going to pay a very, very high price for one's alleged goodness and it is the Danes, it is Denmark, it is the future generations. In time, a parallel society has been created by citizens who are not Danish and never will be. I dare not think about what Denmark looks like in 40-50 years, but we can already see for ourselves how dramatic a demographic change Denmark has undergone in the last 30-40 years. After all, it is almost a population change, at least in some areas of the country. In 1985 there were approx. 5,000 people in Denmark of non-Western origin; today there are half a million. If you then also think that at some point these people will have citizenship, you have to say that the Denmark we know will be gone in 40-50 years if we are not careful. These are the gloomy prospects. That is why we should limit the allocation of citizenship even more than we have already done. If you ask what kind of bleak prospects I am talking about, try looking at France or Sweden. There's terror, there's riots, there's car burns, there's shots in the streets, there's crime. All in all, it is sometimes more like civil war. Denmark would also have looked like this if the Danish People's Party had not shouted guard in the rifle and the immigration policy had been tightened. But maybe that's how Denmark can look in 40-50 years, or maybe even before, if we're not careful. I am sure that our descendants will ask what a large majority in the Danish Parliament was thinking of when the limits of mass immigration were opened and later granted citizenship in large numbers. As I said, a quarter of a million in 40 years is simply too many. But yes, it has been tightened and it is good, but it is still not enough. That is why we are proposing this further tightening, which is on top of the others and which means that only spouses of Danish citizens can apply for citizenship. The idea is that a Danish citizen agrees with the other person by marrying him, and that it is in itself a fairly good measuring tool, in relation to whether he is Danish in the heart. In addition, in our opinion, the Folketing should vote on the people one at a time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200713	There is a question from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200716	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Krarup for her speech... even though it was quite doomed tones that were in it. One can then discuss whether it is the climate threat that will make future generations ask why we did not act in time, but that is not what we are debating here today. I would just like to hear: the Danish People's Party places so much emphasis on the fact that you are Danish with heart, because I understand that this is what defines whether you can become a Danish citizen. Sometimes I find it difficult to understand exactly what it means. But if you are to be Danish with heart, what does it matter who you have married, because it is surely a relationship for the individual whether you are Danish with heart? Surely it is not defined by whom one has fallen in love and married; it must be a relationship for the individual alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200808	There are some religions where you can't marry people outside the cultural circle. That's what it's all about, that is, that a Muslim shouldn't marry a non-Muslim. If you look at the Muslim population in Denmark and look at the pattern of marriage there, you will see that there are very, very few, much fewer immigrants from Muslim countries who marry Danes than there are immigrants from other countries who marry Danes. That is what we want to contain. We do not want Denmark to be colonised through marriages, which complement people from the original homelands. We think that is sad. Because you don't want Denmark, if you only want to marry a former Turk or Moroccan, or what has acquired Danish citizenship, do you?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200910	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200912	I am really trying to get the idea of what it means to be Danish in the heart, because I have to say quite frankly that I do not fully understand it. I don't really know what it's like to measure it. But am I to understand that one can then marry to be Danish in the heart, that is, that it is a way of measuring it? When you meet all the other requirements and have been married to a Dane for 3 years, you are Danish with heart. So it's something you can marry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201200939	According to our proposal, you cannot marry a citizenship. You have no right to citizenship because you have married a Dane. You can come up with the law, and then you can be voted on. So that's very, very crucial. But of course it matters whether a Dane has agreed to the person, that is to say he has married him. This means that there is one Dane who accepts him or her. The second thing that means is that the traveller has overcome his barrier of wanting to marry out of his own nationality and hopefully out of his own religion. That is to say, he is willing to meet a new culture and embrace it. I think that is a pretty good test for whether one can and will become Danish in the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201031	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201033	Thank you. Actually, I'd just like to follow up on sir. Peder Hvelplund, because I really don't understand how to get more Danish from getting married, so how to get more so-called Danish values from marrying a Danish citizen. I think that is an expression of a little duvet lift on the part of the Danish People's Party. So can't Mrs. Marie Krarup try to explain to us once more how to get more Danish by getting married?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201108	Yeah, we're gonna do it one more time. This is because one proves that one is willing to extend beyond the limits of one's own culture. This has shown a willingness because in your private life you are willing to extend and take a Dane into your private life. And then there is the fact that when you live with a Dane in your private life, the probability is greater that your language improves, that your knowledge of traditions improves, and that you get involved in a Danish family, of course, means a great deal. So yes, I think there are a lot of people who want much, much better opportunities to become Danish. And the fact that you take the step proves that you can and will cross the borders of your own culture. So yes, I think it's a very big difference. And that is what we see, as I just said, namely that the marriage pattern of Muslim immigrants exactly shows that many, of course not all, do not want Denmark, because they do not marry Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201214	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201215	The reason I'm asking in this way is that it's not particularly Danish to be married. That's why I can't understand why getting married would make you more Danish. I just have to be sure that I understand what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks quite rightly. So, you can become a Danish citizen without marrying anyone, but if you marry someone from a country other than Denmark, you can't become a Danish citizen or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201245	It would be strange if one were to become a Danish citizen by marrying a Somali, that is to say, it would be quite foolish. So I think the rapporteur should think about what I said last time, because that is the same question. So, the process itself knows that you get married, that you say yes at the altar, is not necessarily what makes a Danish, but the decision that lies before, namely that you are willing to cross your own cultural borders, is then proof that you can and want something more. And the practicality of living with a Danish family is something that raises the likelihood that you will actually become Danish. So I actually think it's a really good way to see if people want Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201331	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201334	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur said that, if you were Danish in your heart, you should of course be able to become a Dane. So will the rapporteur explain when you are Danish in your heart?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201347	You can't really do that. Because what you have to ask people is what they feel. So I can't stand here and tell you how someone else feels. But I can be more or less sure that someone who wants to marry a Dane or is married to a Dane has been thinking about his own culture and his own future in terms of culture, so that he has thus examined his own heart and found that it is friendly to Denmark. But I can never see from the outside whether people are Danish in the heart or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201428	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201429	Does this mean that the rapporteur is in favour of Danish citizenship, of course, if you feel Danish, as the rapporteur said?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201439	This is precisely what the Danish People's Party's efforts have been about these many years: that Danish citizenship should be given exclusively to the people who actually feel Danish in their hearts. There are many who want Danish citizenship for a whole lot of other reasons to secure a place in a welfare state and receive social benefits, in order to avoid military service in its original home country. There are plenty and lots of reasons, which is why people are willing to act as if I had to say so. That's why we have to make sure with a lot of different rules that they might come to this with that they're Danish in the heart. But we can never know for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201522	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201552	The debate is open. The first is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201201603	Thank you for the floor. We have to deal with a motion for a resolution, B 47, on the prohibition of wearing Islamic scarf in public institutions. I shall start by saying that the government cannot support the resolution. However, I do welcome the discussion, because it concerns an important issue: the question of what values we want to support our society. The issue of scarves relates, among other things, to: to the question of religion, specifically to Islam's presence in Denmark. The government's starting point is that religion is a personal matter. This means, among other things, that the individual cannot expect society to submit to or conform to the individual's personal beliefs. We are therefore opposed to religion being turned into a political matter. But it also means that society accepts that the individual has the right to practice his or her faith openly and freely. It's not just gonna happen at home behind the roll-down curtains. So religion is not a private matter. Our starting point is that religion is a personal matter and we have no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion, even if they are public servants and meet citizens in their daily activities. We cannot therefore support a general ban on public employees carrying, for example, civic functions. a Muslim scarf or, for that matter, a Jewish kippa. It will hit a very broad group which includes so-su assistants in nursing homes, employees of the country's museums, bus drivers, teachers, lawyers, economists and others. Moreover, such a prohibition is not deemed to be possible within the framework of Paragraph 70 of the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination against citizens on the basis of their creed as regards the full enjoyment of civil and political rights. Nor do we consider that it could be implemented within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, including the protection of religious freedom and the prohibition of discrimination. However, this does not change the fact that in some areas there may be objective and proportionate reasons for introducing regulations on dress, so that public servants appear religiously and politically neutral. We're all in on that. There are, among other things: rules under which a judge may not appear in court proceedings in a manner which is capable of being perceived as an indication of his or her religious and political affiliation. We think that makes a great deal of sense. This is relevant not only to Muslim scarves but also to other garments. The assessment of the possibility of introducing a code of clothing for selected groups in the public sector with contact with citizens will therefore require a concrete analysis of the individual specific job function and a factual description of the purpose of such a ban on that type of job function. Clearly, this is a complex law, with many different factors involved, not least the fact that the ban cannot be limited to symbols of certain religions. In the Danish population there are different beliefs and beliefs. As citizens of the Danish People's Rule, we can meet on a common democratic basis and enjoy the freedoms and rights that we have within the framework of the rule of law. We in the government want a coherent Denmark based on fundamental democratic values and freedoms, and we strongly reject religious coercion and think it is deeply problematic if girls and women are oppressed and, as it were, have the scarf pulled over their heads against their will. In this Assembly we are putting forward proposals for legislation to help strengthen the fight for freedom of such girls and women and to combat anti-democratic and extremist forces. We will also be tabling a legislative proposal which, among other things, will: is intended to prohibit religious marriages of minors and to clarify that negative social control can be punished as psychological violence with the penalties that result from it. The purpose of the bill is also to impose stricter penalties on persons who, by force, maintain others in marriages or other marriage-like relationships, for example. conditions entered into by a religious marriage but which are not of civil validity. We have already tabled a bill on anti-democratic donations to prevent natural and legal persons from working against or undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights by giving donations. This also applies to foreign government authorities, state-controlled organisations and companies. However, the fight for democracy and fundamental rights is not a work that has been completed by those legislative proposals. I am therefore pleased that we can take the debate, the debate today. It is important that we constantly ask ourselves what kind of society we want and how it should be expressed. Part of this discussion is what values we want to be reflected in our public institutions. As far as the government is concerned, we are concerned about getting rid of parallel societies and extreme forces trying to undermine democracy or to suppress the freedom of others. In this respect, this resolution is quite relevant, but we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202124	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202129	Will the Minister accept that the Minister's officials conduct political or religious agitation in the Ministry? If you walk around with a big T-shirt that says "Vote on the Left, down with the Social Democratic Party" or "Jehovah's Witnesses are right, everyone else is condemned, would that be okay? Would it be okay if the Minister's children were taught by a primary school teacher with a T-shirt with the inscription "Only Jehovah's Witnesses are saved, everyone else dies and perishes? Would the minister think it was okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202214	Personally, I feel like I don't want people to have opinions. I don't care that people are religious either. I think that there are some functions in society that we need to make an extra effort to keep neutral. Judges, I mentioned in the speech. You could also mention policemen or people in the defense. There I think it is obvious that we should expect a different degree of neutral uniformation than we can with a gardener in a municipal park. That's the one thing I want to say. The second thing I want to say is that I do not regard the scarf in itself as propaganda and an presumptuous way of signalling a religion on its own. It may be for some people, but I do not think it can be said in general terms that putting on a scarf in itself is presumptuous, as for example. a prayer call from a minaret.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202317	When you're wearing an Islamic scarf, it's like you have a big T-shirt that says "Allah is greatest," and I'm right or something like that. It's obviously agitation, and it's a very obvious agitation. It is completely out of step with what we normally allow in public institutions. I've been working in schools where you weren't allowed to hang election posters. I thought that was very, very sensible, because there should be no political agitation at the school itself. There you should have some kind of neutrality. So you couldn't wear a T-shirt where it said that people should vote for one or the other when you were teaching. I believe that the same must apply when it comes to Islamic scarves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202403	It has certainly been received that this is the rapporteur's view. I myself do not see it that way, in other words, that everyone wearing a scarf can be compared to someone wearing a T-shirt on whom there is a political message. That's enough for some people wearing a scarf, and that's enough for even more people wearing a niqab where you can't see the whole face at all. But there is also a lot that wears a scarf that has no desire at all to influence their surroundings or be presumptuous, but does so as part of a cultural and religious background. I think that balance is also important for us as legislators.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202445	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202448	Thank you so much. I am a school teacher myself, and I have experienced an intern coming out that was completely covered; you could only see her face. She was going to teach the children freedom, democracy and all the things that we are now teaching in the Danish primary school. Does the Minister think that this is also a good idea, or is it only the head scarf that the Minister is against banning? Or does the Minister not think that there should be limits to how to agulate religiously in, for example, the Danish primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202530-2	There is a difference between whether I want to ban it and whether it is a good idea. That is the one thing I want to say. The second point is, in relation to whether it has some educational consequences that it would quite obviously have before the ban on masking came into force, if, for example, one were to. then a teacher assistant, where you couldn't even see the look on your face. I would say that it has obvious consequences for the ability of such a educator to work with the children, if you cannot see her facial expression, and then it is an obvious management task, I think, to take action against it. In the same way, as rapporteur for foreigners, have I also had opinions as to whether one is available for the labour market if one can only see one's eyes, for which employer will hire one in such a situation? So I fully acknowledge that there may be these discussions. I just don't want to place myself on the stand or the Danish society on the stand that everyone who wears a scarf, per. definition cannot be employed in the public sector if they are dealing with citizens, for example. as a sosu helper or as a case worker at a job centre. I do not think that would be a sensible step for Danish society to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202642	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202643	There we have so much disagreement. I certainly do not believe and we certainly do not believe that Danish girls in primary school should be confronted with the women's oppressive scarf in a country where we have gender equality. A few weeks ago I was in consultation with the Minister. It was a consultation where we discussed mosques that were sneaked under the radar around the various municipalities, and there the minister said that Islam should be a partner to the Danish people's government. Does the Minister still think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202715	There are about 300,000 people in Denmark who are immigrants from countries where the majority of the population profess Islam. Some have to be here temporarily, but a large majority have a permanent residence permit or may even have acquired citizenship. These are our neighbours, they are our fellow citizens, they are our colleagues, and perhaps they are even us. After all, we cannot have a policy to deport everyone or force everyone to convert. We need to make that work, and just as other religions in Denmark work together with Danish society and the Danish government, Islam must of course also be brought there. And I do not think that we as a parliament can say: you are not part of the future; Muslims are not part of the future in Denmark; Islam is not part of the future. We have to insist that they are here. These are our neighbours and our colleagues, and they can be us. There are people here in our Parliament Hall. We need to make this work, and I refuse to give up. One of the ways to make it work is to say to Muslims in Denmark: You have to make sure that your religion becomes a partner and becomes something that can support our society, and not something that undermines our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202822	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202825	Thank you, Minister. After all, it is no secret that the Free Greens and the Social Democrats often and often, in fact most of the time, completely disagree on value policy and the whole question of integration. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister. It is simply refreshing to see that, after all, there is still a difference between Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. If the Minister so clearly says no to this very women's oppressive proposal, which may have far-reaching consequences for our welfare society, then I need to thank the Minister and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201202915	Of course, I always accept thanks. And now that I have the floor and the Greens have just spoken, I think it is worth noting two things. Paragraph 1: Can the Free Greens be sure that everyone who wears a scarf in Danish society does so of their own free will and that in some cases the scarf cannot also be used as an instrument for women's oppression? That's one. Paragraph 2: I can see that the Greens have tabled a motion for a resolution on the need to be able to wear a scarf in defence and in the police, and I would just like to say that I am extremely opposed to it. So thank you. But let us also maintain the fruitful discussion between the Free Greens and the government, because I know that, on this particular issue, we are, after all, not entirely in line with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203013	Before Sikandar Siddique has the floor, I would just like to say that it is not the Minister who questions the rapporteurs. So it's up to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, what he will say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203027	I would say that the position of the Free Greens is that of course there are religious conservative environments that use negative social control, just as the Free Greens also see this proposal as negative social control, and that also applies to the proposal we discussed earlier. And the position of the Free Greens is quite clear: negative social control must be combated, whether it is religious or political. In relation to our resolution, which will be debated on Thursday, I look forward to having a very good debate with the government and the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203109	But I must start by regretting that I am asking questions to the rapporteur from up here. When I do so, it is because there is a reason why I am a little reluctant in my rejection of the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, because in some cases there are strong, independent women who choose to wear a scarf because they want to signal which religion they have confessed to, but it is also an instrument of social control. It can be seen that in the areas where Islamists and reactionary forces are gaining ground, the scarf is also gaining ground and that where progressive liberal values of freedom are advancing, fewer and fewer scarves are walking down the street. We can see that if we look out into the world. I myself think that one of the strongest images I have ever seen was of a huge demonstration in Tehran, before women in Iran were instructed to cover their hair at one and the same time it was an incredibly frightening and incredible telling picture: Thousands of Iranian women who, the day before the command comes into force, choose to go to the demonstration in Tehran. So you cannot separate the scarf as an instrument from political and social control of women as a human being. But I just think it is incredibly important that we are not black and white in this discussion, but constantly insist that it is independent people, but that it is also a political instrument. And that is why I am somewhat reluctant to reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here, but if we are going to vote on it as it stands here, we certainly cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203244	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203259	Thank you, President. I do not like the background to the Islamic head scarf. The purpose of the scarf is to mark a difference between women and men's position in society. Women can violate the family's honor if they don't behave virtuously. It is clear from the Koran that one should not show one's beauty over one's mate or male family members. According to religious historian Kate Østergaard, the instructions in the Koran are not quite clear. In particular, the rules of cover seem to be up to interpretation, and most Muslims will then take the hadiths to help when they need a little more detailed rules. But besides religious reasons for wearing a scarf, there may also be other reasons: Traditions or aesthetic choices. That is why we need to balance more considerations when we have a discussion about considering a ban. On the one hand, there is the need to free women from social control, to guarantee freedom from the values and standards of the Muslim world, which should not hold back women in the West. On the other hand, in our efforts to ensure women's freedom, we should not make the mistake of becoming the tyrants that we want to end with ourselves. That risk arises if we dictate whether to wear a scarf or not. If a 50-year-old woman, who is, by the way, a good citizen, has been wearing a scarf all her life, it may seem violent if we are to ban her from doing so any longer. If, for aesthetic reasons, a 25-year-old woman wants to supplement her dress with a scarf, it would also seem violent to ban her from doing so. If headscarves are banned in public institutions, as is proposed in this resolution, then we risk achieving the opposite of what we want, namely that more people turn against the majority population. The counterculture, which is already a problem, will be fed again. Several of the fundamentalist and oppressive organizations such as Hizb ut-Tahrir will exploit the situation to secure more sympathizers. I know men who, since they were young, have worn ties every day and feel weird to go to work without, and I could imagine that many Muslim women can feel the same way when it comes to the scarf. One may have adopted habits and aesthetic preferences, and that does not make one a salafist or a threat to cohesion. Social democracy cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203524	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203529	Does the rapporteur think that it is tyrannical that you should not wear T-shirts where it says "Vote on the Left" or "Vote on the Social Democratic Party" in many primary and secondary schools when you teach there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203550	I assume that is up to the individual management at such an educational establishment to find out, i.e. how the rules should be there. I do not know whether there is such a dress code generally applicable to public sector teachers. I'm not familiar with that. But I really think it is a little different, because it is a clear political message, in other words, where something is written. Now it is not the most controversial thing in the world, not even if it said that one would vote on the Left, because there could be something even more hateful than that, and then one might perhaps consider whether it was appropriate to wear it at a high school. But, in general terms, I personally would not want to impose a ban on what people should be wearing in clothes like that. I do not know, and it is not something I have thought about; but now it was also the scarf that we had been asked to discuss today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203643	I just think it is a very bad argument to say that it is tyrannical that one should not engage in politically-ideologically-religious agitation when one is a civil servant. It is an ordinary code, and we do not do so in Denmark. Nobody does, and if you do, you'll get it. That is why it is actually rare to have direct rules on it, because nobody does. The problem now is that when you walk around with a scarf, where it actually says that Allah is greatest and that everyone else is indifferent and it's a clear agitation, you don't get anything to know because we don't have these clear rules. And there it is that it would be wisest to say that this also applies to this. The closet is this way. That agitation isn't okay either.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203732	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203734	I am sceptical about the argument that it is in itself an expression of missions to carry a scarf around. Well, I just don't subscribe to that logic. I don't see it as that if I meet a woman with a scarf, she's trying to convert me to Islam. I have to admit that. But I can, of course, take the view that I started my rapporteur's speech by saying that I know what the scarf symbolises, that in its essence and original form it is a repressive symbol which I do not really like. I just don't think that's why every woman chooses to wear a scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203816	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, and welcome to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201203824	That is right, and thank you for the floor. The Left is in favour of a strict and consistent immigration policy. The huge challenges of integration that we still face, unfortunately, are urgently needed. That is why, of course, the Left will pursue a policy that preserves and protects Danish values and will take a hard stand against those who do not want our Danish community. 'Cause there's too many people outside. Too many live in parallel societies in a world where women are not allowed to participate in Danish society, where mother has fewer rights, and where a daughter is more limited than a son. The left will destroy social control. That is also why we have tabled a resolution to include social control in the criminal code in the same way as hate crimes, because we know that there are problems in Muslim environments with targeted social control of girls and women in particular. In relation to today's motion for a resolution from DF, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this issue of Muslim scarves. I am genuinely concerned, like my party, about the fact that these scarves are all too often the expression of social control. The Left does not believe that anyone should be pressured to wear a scarf. We strongly reject this kind of social control, because it is women's oppressive. I know that this is not the first time that the issue of scarves has been turned around in the Chamber. In fact, DF came up with a similar motion for a resolution shortly before I was elected to the Danish Parliament in 2019. Despite the fact that DF's motion for a resolution has changed into, among other things: To apply only to employees with public contact in public institutions, the position of the Left has not changed. We cannot support the proposal because it raises, first and foremost, important questions in relation to Article 70 of the Constitution on freedom of religion. After all, the Constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of faith, and since the ban only applies to Islamic scarves, it is a certain belief that is affected. The Constitution must, of course, be respected, and I must therefore inform you that the Left cannot vote in favour of the resolution. We must combat problems of integration and social control without undermining the rights and freedoms that we have in Denmark. However, I would like to stress that there is a challenge with women and girls being forced to wear a scarf to some extent, and we must take this seriously, and we must do everything we can to do that. Religion must never affect the work of public institutions, and religion must never be a factor that lowers the level of service that citizens are entitled to receive. If the scarf does that, it's clearly worth discussing. I myself have been a helper to the disabled, and I wonder about the proportionality of starting the fight against social control against the Muslim woman, for example. a sosu assistant who is actually in employment when there are such major challenges with Muslim women who are not in employment. At the same time, I know that this is a difficult balancing exercise and there is no doubt that we must take action against the major problems of social control. There are examples of 11-12-year-old girls in primary school who are not allowed to let their hair hang freely and participate in the class's swimming lessons, and I should not be persuaded to do so voluntarily. It is not a symbol of the peaceful exploitation of a religion. It's a symbol of women's oppression and some medieval thinking that a little girl needs to be covered up. We must combat this, and we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204216	We are grateful to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204243	Thank you for the floor. For many years Danish women have been wearing scarf in many different colors and often have done so if it has been a bit semi-cool, because in Denmark one basically has to dress as one wants. Some choose to lie topless on the beach, others feel best about a scarf, and both should be so warmly welcome to do if you feel like it. The motion for a resolution here will then prohibit the wearing of scarf for religious reasons. The argument in the motion for a resolution seems somewhat absent. The motion for a resolution does not state any arguments other than that Denmark is a Christian country, but I know that there is no ban in Christianity on wearing a scarf, so here the Danish People's Party's argument falls completely to the ground. Because even if you wear a scarf, you can easily provide a good service, and the latter must be crucial, not the clothes you wear. Two weeks ago, I myself had a blood sample taken from a female Laborant who wore a scarf, so the Radical Left sees no reason to introduce a new clothing police to control people's dress. They already have plenty to do, and at the moment there are also many who wear the head covering hat, and they must also be free from it. With these words, then, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204426	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204430	I was actually going to ignore the kind of statements that have come from Radical Left I don't know for decades, i.e. that the scarf is just 7 g cloth, and that it doesn't matter and blablabla. But when you compare it to an elf hat, I have to say that then the goal was still too full. That is why I would like to ask: has the Radical Left not been able to understand what Islam is about and what the Muslim scarf symbolizes? Has the radical parliamentary group agreed that this is therefore a completely different set of values, which is contrary to Christianity, and that when/if the Islamic set of values becomes dominant in ghettos and places where there is strong social control, etc. etc., so does freedom disappear completely? Then there is not really any possibility of continuing the free life that we have in Denmark with democracy and freedom of expression and something like that. Has the Radical Left gotten into it, or are you just gonna go on with this 7 g fabric thing, and that elf hats are the same thing, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204543	The Radical Left has certainly taken the view that for religious reasons someone chooses to wear a scarf, and we do not see this as contrary to the fact that good work can be done in the public sector, and that is why we see no reason to support this motion for a resolution. And I welcome the fact that it was then the first question that did not just deal with a left-hand shirt; it was good to have a little more questions than that. It sounded like wearing a left-hand shirt was the worst thing you could possibly wear. I do not think so, thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204620	I would now say that it would be much worse if you were wearing a Radical Left shirt. That would be the worst thing. But what is so disappointing is that we have had quite a lot of years to understand what we are up against and that we continue not to take it seriously. You just keep skating on the surface and not watching the huge value struggle we are in, the threat that exists, against both Europe and Denmark. You're still gonna keep talking about the fact that there's just...
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204707	I'm afraid I'm not very good at skating, but it might be very fun to try it someday. But basically, the Radical Left also recognises that there may be some who are pressured to wear a scarf, even if they do not want it, and we would like to play a major role in combating negative social control. So this is an effort that we think is very important, and we want to help fight it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204732	Thank you very much, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments, and we shall now turn to the SF rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204748	Thank you. I have received a speech from our rapporteur, Mrs Halime Oguz, so I will read it out. In the SF we cannot support this resolution. We are opposed to it and, moreover, it is not within the framework of the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. The motion for a resolution calls for a ban which will only affect one particular belief. It violates the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of creed. We do not want to make legislation that conflicts with the fundamental freedoms which have laid the foundations for Danish democracy. Having said that, I think it is worth talking about the young girls who are involuntarily required to wear a scarf. Just as it is a democratic right to dress as you like, it is a democratic right to opt out of the scarf. That's exactly the last thing I think I'm getting shy down. We must not close our eyes to the reality that exists out there, for who is going to speak the case for the girl who was wearing scarf and long dresses down to the ankles at age 6, or the girl who was cut completely bald by her father at the age of 12, so that she was forced to wear it? That is the involuntaryness with which we must end. We must help young girls who are forced to wear a veil of unfree will, and we must do so, among other things. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in this field. However, a ban on wearing a scarf in public institutions is by no means SF's policy and we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204923	You're welcome, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201204935	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we have the very clear view that neither the Folketing nor the government should interfere in how to dress never under any circumstances. Nor should we interfere in what people believe in as long as it does not harm other people. One can agree or disagree with what others are going around believing in, but no matter what, it is not something the state should interfere with as long as one does not believe in anything that harms others. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we will of course also vote against this proposal, just as we voted against the so-called burka ban. We simply do not believe that it is the responsibility of the Folketing or the government to interfere in how people dress, and perhaps especially not how women dress. There are several reasons why, I think, there are problems with this proposal from the Danish People's Party. In addition to being paternal in relation to women's dress, it is also based on some very unpleasant assumptions, I think. It is based on the fact that there are some Danes who are disliked in DF, some Danes who do not think there should be room in the labour market and in our educational institutions, namely those women who are practicing Muslims. It appears from the proposal that the proposers look at wearing a scarf as an expression of women carrying out a conscious or unconscious mission for Islam. I have to say that I strongly disagree with that. Wearing a scarf is not about missioning, it is about cultivating our faith, and it is a right guaranteed by the Constitution and by international conventions. Then I agree that the Danish People's Party is not so much concerned with international conventions, but I have noticed that the Danish People's Party has been talking a lot lately about how important the constitution is, and religious freedom is also part of our constitution. In the Enhedslist, we regard this as an unacceptable interference with freedom of religion, namely the ability of the believer to practice his religion. At the same time, it is an encroachment on the individual's right to dress as you like. Therefore, Muslims must of course have the right to wear a scarf in public institutions, just as everyone else should have the right to wear the scarves they want. As I see it, this proposal is that the Danish People's Party does not like Muslims. That is why they believe that life must be made as difficult as possible for our Muslim fellow citizens. But I find it difficult to believe that it benefits any form of integration; I find it difficult to believe that it benefits the women involved here, with Muslim background, other than that it actually puts even more stumbling threads in front of the people who are practicing Muslims in Denmark. In the Enhedslisten we do not believe that it is the Danish Parliament's job to decide what clothes people should wear, and certainly not women. I will defend every woman's right to wear a scarf, just as I will defend every woman's right to take off the scarf. It is simply nonsense to say the least that we in the Danish Parliament now have a discussion on how women can dress. Honestly, it's the year 2020. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205300	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205305	Yes, it is precisely the year 2020, and we really are facing an immigration challenge and an Islamic threat that will take freedom away from us. I think we should be aware of this, and that is why this proposal is of course timely. It is not discriminatory in that people are excluded from working in the public sector, as the rapporteur says. That's not right. That's bullshit. There must be freedom of religion... it is so important... but it is not the same as having freedom of agitation. You can also be asked to wear a nurse's uniform in a hospital. Is it to deprive women of all freedom? No, it's not. You can easily be a Muslim and wear a crescent moon like a jewelry that's no problem, but it's walking around with huge agitation symbols like T-shirts or scarves that send certain political or religious signals in relation to being in our public sector when treating people in hospitals or teaching children in schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205422	I think it is very, very strange that a proposal that is about deciding how women should dress is considered to be about freedom. I simply cannot understand that. And I have to say that there is a significant difference between nurses and home workers wearing uniforms, among other things. for hygienic reasons, and so that there are some women wearing the scarf. It simply cannot be right for us to stand here in 2020 and have a debate on how women should dress. Frankly, I thought we'd come to where we had to decide for ourselves what clothes we were wearing, whether we were wearing very low-down clothes or very protective clothes. That's what we decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205501	But it cannot be right that we are standing here in the Chamber in 2020 and discussing something where it turns out that the rapporteur does not have the slightest idea at all of what a system of values you come up with when you wear an Islamic scarf. Would the rapporteur think it would be fine if a nurse were to stick a large Communist flag or a Nazi flag on her uniform? Would the rapporteur say: 'Well, that's fine; women have to decide for themselves what they want to wear?' It's not okay with that kind of agitation. And you have to understand what kind of value system is behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205539	Well, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I do not regard wearing a scarf as agitation; I regard it as the individual's right to practice and practice his religion. In fact, Mrs Krarup, I think that is quite all right, and I think that everyone should be allowed to do so. And then I have to say that I simply do not understand that in the Danish People's Party you can imagine yourself that this is a motion for freedom, so you will dictate here how women should dress. It is completely out of place in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205617	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. And then we'll go over to sir's. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205626	Thank you, sir. President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for this proposal. We Conservatives are touchingly in agreement that authorities from police, defence and courts should not bear strong religious symbols such as the Muslim scarf. I also fully recognise that the Muslim scarf is being used as part of a very comprehensive, unfortunately, social control in Muslim environments, including that the scarf can symbolise a lower status for women, as well as that the use of the Muslim scarf for public employees is probably some balance and a subject that is in motion and under discussion. A good example of this is the proposal that will come on Thursday I think it is from Free Greens where it is suggested that precisely policemen and Danish soldiers may wear the Muslim scarf. We're Conservatives against that. In addition, we also see actions around Europe, where several countries say no to the use of the scarf in different situations, just as we in Denmark do in relation to policemen and soldiers to counter the social control and Islamisation of the public space. However, we Conservatives do not believe that a complete ban, as described here, is right and therefore we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205753	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen in New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205801	Thank you. In Denmark, there is increasing Islamisation. The foundation of our lovely Danish society erodes under our feet, while Islam is sneaked under the guise of diversity and cultural enrichment. And nothing could be more wrong and more destructive. Islam is in direct opposition to Danish values such as freedom, democracy and gender equality. The women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions, schools and public jobs, and this must be stopped. Of course, as a Dane, you should not be confronted with the women's oppressive Muslim scarf, whether it is in the local primary school, in the hospital or in the care of the elderly. Danish children should not be confronted with an ideology that is in direct contrast to gender equality. Danish girls should not be confronted with a scarf that symbolises that girls are worth less than boys. Danish elders should not be confronted with the symbol of an ideology that is contrary to the freedoms which Danish men and women have guaranteed the Danes for a century from those who fought for women's voting rights to the brave Danish resistance people during the Second World War. Danes in hospitals should not be confronted with Islam when they are most vulnerable and need care and care. Islam should simply have no influence in Danish society. That is why, of course, we support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201205945	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to know whether there is anyone here from the Liberal Alliance who now has the right to have his rapporteur's speech. There isn't. But Mr. Sikandar Siddique have the opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210004	Thank you for the floor. Free Greens are opposed to the proposed proposal, which we regard as deeply discriminatory. It is difficult for us to understand that in Denmark, where we love and celebrate our freedom and equality, we must limit precisely freedom and equality. It is incomprehensible in a country which is made up of different people and cultures and in which we particularly benefit from freedom and equality, that we want to restrict it. One moment we are talking about immigrants not being good enough to enter the labour market, while next we are doing everything we can to push the very same people out of the labour market. It doesn't add up. The proposal is not, of course, about religious symbols in general, but the proposal is another targeted attempt to demean and discriminate against Muslim citizens. As a society, we should go a completely different way. Instead, we should focus on how we can ensure that women with a scarf should not send 60%. more applications than ethnic Danish women to be called for an interview. How do we ensure that women with scarf do not run the risk of being subjected to unpleasant verbal and physical attacks that we read and hear about? Free Greens want everyone to be free and have the greatest freedom and equality possible, as long as individual freedom does not restrict the freedom of others. The scarf doesn't. I simply cannot understand why the Danish People's Party is so afraid that some Muslim women wear a scarf. Today there are plenty of Muslim women in the public sector who wear scarf: doctors, lawyers, nurses, social workers and sosus. Thousands of women with a scarf are thus working in the public sector and making a difference to our welfare societies. How will DF fill all the posts where they potentially scare the employees away if the proposal becomes a reality? When such irresponsible proposals are put forward, we can at least point out how the welfare state is to be linked. Why make it a problem that women have the freedom to choose for themselves what clothes they wear when they have to work? It is important for us in the Free Greens that freedom is not limited to your privacy. We believe that you should have the opportunity to show up at your workplace, no matter what religion or clothing you prefer. Muslim women with scarf are part of our society, whether you like it or not, Islam is the second largest religion in Denmark, whether you like it or not. Our public institutions must be able to accommodate this. All this leads me to believe that there is by no means a logic in DF's proposal. It is completely devoid of relation to reality and will make the problems bigger that DF is so preoccupied with. Fewer women with Muslim background will be on the labour market, and for example, our elderly will be left in their own feces and without food, because the Danish People's Party is afraid of women with scarf. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210341	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210346	You can take off the scarf. I don't know about sir. Sikandar Siddique is aware. However, it is possible to remove a scarf and it is therefore possible to work in the public sector. You can be a Muslim without wearing a scarf. We can see that in France. So it's not true that this is an exclusion for people. But it is an exclusion of agitation, it is absolutely right. Nor would I like it if people carried Communist symbols on their clothes when they were caring for my children in kindergarten or teaching my children in primary school or caring for sick people in hospitals. This is not a place where we are agitating that we do not have a tradition of ^ and we do not advocate Islam in public institutions either, in my opinion. You should not do so, and if you cannot find out for yourself, I therefore think it would be sensible to make rules that tell people not to do so. Yeah, I can't make it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210457	I was waiting for the question, but I actually find it extremely problematic, Mrs Krarup, to suspect women, our citizens, our fellow citizens, who are working hard every day for our society to be able to hang together and who care for our children, care for our elderly people, clean up, are lawyers, and in this way, with such a proposal, all women with a scarf are cut over one comb and put in a booth with those who want to campaign for some religion, and that can be any religion. In fact, I find that extremely problematic. That's what I'm gonna say. We have a proud tradition in Denmark that we can choose to dress as we please, and that makes this proposal up to date.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210550	You can take off the scarf like I said. But that does not mean that you do not agitate if you carry a Communist flag on your T-shirt? So you don't agulate? So, I believe that you do, and so do when you wear an Islamic scarf, and Islam is, after all, a system that goes against everything we have in Denmark that goes against freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, women's equality. All the things that we love in Denmark are anti-Islam, and there it is strange that people say: "You may agitate for that; we do not want Communist or Nazi or other agitation from public servants, but that is exactly what you can do. That's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210639	Mrs. Marie Krarup says you can take off the scarf. But one can also refrain from making women's oppressive proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber; one can avoid working against what previous generations have been working for, namely equality before the law, the right to choose for themselves; one can avoid making proposals that are supposedly unconstitutional. I strongly urge Marie Krarup not to generalise and not to demonise, as the Danish People's Party has been doing for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210709	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens; I forgot to mention that before, sorry. Now it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201210723	Thank you for the floor. When you put on an Islamic scarf, it is like wearing a T-shirt, where it says: Allah is the greatest. This means that there is a clear and noisy message that Islam is the right religion, and not just that, but that following the Sharia in Islam is the right thing to do. To wear an Islamic scarf is thus a violent form of signaling, which is to compare with advertising. Denmark is a Christian country, and it has been marked by Christianity for many centuries. Dannebrog is adorned by a Christian cross, our culture and thus also our public institutions are founded on Christianity and Christian values. Christianity and Christian festivals are clearly present in schools and public institutions in the form of decorations, Christmas and Easter decorations, holidays according to the Christian calendar and other Christian traditions, for example. The end of Christmas in a church, common song of hymns and possibly the Lord's Prayer at the morning assembly in some schools. While Denmark has a long tradition that Christianity is present everywhere, we also have a tradition that it is not missionary to other religions, sects or political ideologies in public institutions. Many institutions prohibit direct political agitation in the area of the institution, except on certain political days of debate. We also have a tradition of an impartial official who helps his minister regardless of ideology. I've never seen an official working with a T-shirt that says that Mette Frederiksen is the best, or that only the Social Democracy works. We do not, because we respect the fact that political and ideological advertising does not belong in Danish public institutions. In short, Danish public institutions are characterized by Christian Danish culture, but closed to agitation for religions, sects or political ideologies. That's the way it's supposed to stay. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party do not believe that there should be room for Islamic mission in Danish public institutions. When women wear an Islamic scarf, they carry out a conscious or unconscious mission for Islam. There should be no room for this in Danish public institutions, and that is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution for which we are pleased that we have found support. In formal terms, New Citizens will vote for it with us, but others have expressed some sympathy for being on guard against the Islamic scarf. So I think this proposal will work out as it has done with the burka ban: it starts with saying that we are insane and that it is impossible and that it is not possible at all, but after a period it will be implemented. So, of course, we will continue to make this proposal until we have it implemented, because it is not at odds with the constitution; it is not something that prohibits freedom of religion, it is not women's discrimination, but it is common sense. It is just that no one has pulled themselves together to say to immigrants who come here with a Muslim background: we are not agitating in our public institutions. Nobody's ever gotten that together. Probably the explanation is that at first it was not expected that there would be so many. It was not expected that in this way one would be dominated by it, that suddenly there would be Muslim parallel societies in Denmark. I guess you couldn't imagine that. So you didn't say it, you didn't get your foot down the first time you saw a woman wearing a scarf in a public institution, and then you didn't get it done. Now it has to be done, and I am sure that, as with the burka ban, it will also come at some point. I look forward to it. So far, we will continue to argue for it in order to defend the free Danish everyday life and to fight against Islamic values getting a foothold in Denmark. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211123	You're welcome. We're not quite done yet. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211129	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that there is a contradiction between having a job in the public sector, fitting it to the letter, and wearing a scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211143	There is the fact that when you wear a scarf, you aspire to a religious political system, and it is against the tradition we have in Denmark, and you aspire to a religious political system that is subversive to Denmark and that runs counter to all the freedom we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211207	Now we got a long explanation about agitation. What I would like to ask is: is there a contradiction between doing your job to the letter, for example, taking a blood test or doing something else, what your work is now in public, completing your work, just as you should, and wearing a scarf?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211231	I think you can take a blood sample and do your job even if you wear Islamic scarf. That's not what this is all about. What it's all about is that at the same time you send some signals that aren't okay. It's not okay to agulate. What would the rapporteur say if the nurse had a large Nazi cross painted on her suit? Wouldn't that seem a little weird? I do not think that there should be room for this kind of agitation when working in the public sector and dealing with ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211307	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments. Does anyone feel that they have not been given the floor? There isn't. Would the Minister like to take the floor on this point? No. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211343	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211409	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for spouses and children of foreign workers to retain their right of residence in Denmark even if the foreign worker acquires Danish citizenship. This is an issue that I have also discussed in the past with, among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Andreas Steenberg, and I have also indicated in the past that I agree with the need to look at these rules that seem baroque. For the government, it is of course important that we stick to the fact that, from the outset, it is the general rules on family reunification that you have to live up to if you want to get your spouse or other family to Denmark. However, there are cases where it is in Denmark's interest to depart from that starting point. This is true, for example, when it comes to setting up a European company. is about the highly qualified foreign labour force, which is widely agreed on creating value for Danish companies and for Denmark. For foreign workers, it is essential that they have the opportunity to bring their family to Denmark, and this is therefore also a crucial factor for Danish companies' ability to recruit and retain the necessary labour. As the rules are today, a foreign worker who has a temporary or permanent residence permit can bring his family to Denmark for as long as they can support themselves. These are rules that have existed for some time, and these are rules that I think are sensible. However, that access will lapse according to the rules in force if the foreign worker acquires Danish citizenship. This has meant that we have seen some rather strange examples of accompanying family members having their residence permit withdrawn because the main person becomes a Danish citizen or that highly qualified foreigners simply opt out of Danish citizenship to avoid their family losing their residence permit. In the press we have heard of a specialist who has been working in a Danish hospital for 12 years to operate a special machine that ensures that the blood becomes oxygenated and can circulate in the body during surgery. It's a highly specialised job. He has withdrawn his application for citizenship after having been informed to prevent his wife and children from losing their residence permit. It seems crazy. The rules can be a problem for the Danish companies to recruit and retain the highly qualified workforce they need, and it can prevent highly qualified people who have shown that they can and will Denmark from applying for Danish citizenship. We usually say that Danish citizenship is a gift and a declaration of trust from Danish society, but if Danish citizenship means that your family members lose the right to reside in Denmark, then it is probably a gift to which most people would like to say "no." So there's a good reason to see if we can't put the incision somewhere else here. The Danish immigration policy must be strict, but it should not be crazy. We are therefore already looking at a solution whereby persons who are already in Denmark as accompanying family can obtain an extension of their residence permit, even if the main person acquires Danish citizenship, as long as the main person has an employment that would be able to grant a residence permit under one of the occupational schemes. At the same time, as I said, it is important for the government that, in principle, it is the general rules on family reunification that must be met if you want to get your spouse or other family to Denmark. That is why we also believe that the possibility of issuing first-time residence permits for accompanying families should in future only apply if the main person has a temporary residence permit under one of the occupational schemes, and not also for persons with permanent residence, which is what is in force today. This means that a foreign worker who has obtained permanent residence in Denmark or who has acquired Danish citizenship and who wishes to have a family in Denmark must apply for it through the ordinary family reunification rules. I think that makes sense because, as a starting point, residence under one of the occupational schemes is of a temporary nature and because in such cases, in the view of the government, the recruitment considerations will outweigh the need to comply with the general conditions of family reunification. However, in our view, that balance is at the root of the situation when a foreign worker has permanent residence or acquires citizenship. At that time, the foreign worker had such a long stay and had such a permanent connection with Denmark that he should fulfil the same family reunification conditions as Danes or other foreigners with permanent residence. At the same time, however, it makes sense that the accompanying family, already here with the foreign worker, who contributes to our companies and our welfare, does not lose their place of residence as their spouse becomes more attached to Denmark. In the view of the government, the opposite result is a disproportionate obstacle to attracting and maintaining qualified labour from which we benefit. Nor is it fair to the workers and their families. We will therefore propose that there should be an opportunity for the accompanying family to stay here, even if the main person is permanently resident or becomes a Danish national, but only as long as the main person has an appointment that will be able to grant a residence permit under one of the occupational schemes. We are not yet in line with the final shape of the scheme, but we are in the process and my absolute ambition is that we can put forward a legislative proposal at the end of the current parliamentary assembly. With those words, we can actually support this proposal and we look forward to further discussion and constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211950	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201211954	One comment will be the most. I would just like to thank the Minister for calling it strange that choosing his family is a loss of rights, and I even think that the Minister used the word baroquet. And the Minister came up with some good examples of the inappropriateness of these rules and that it gives rise to some wrong conditions in relation to it that it should be possible to attract qualified foreign labour. Thank you for finally mentioning the timetable. We're gonna keep the minister up to that, so at the end of this assembly, something is being put forward to deal with this challenge. So thank you so much for your support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212038	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212042	I would like to thank the Radical Left for raising this issue. I have also been in dialogue with mayors in my own party's hinterland, who have been contacted by citizens who have ended up in this slightly bizarre situation, where the spouses, the family, lose the opportunity to be in Denmark because they themselves are seeking Danish citizenship. Foreign law is so complex and so complex, and there are always examples that it does not work according to intentions. I think this is one of the places where we just have to recognise that there has been an unintended consequence of the fact that the rules have been tightened in the past for permanent residence, and I hope that we can then agree very broadly in the Folketing on just getting the adjustment in place. Because I believe, as someone who is in favour of a strict immigration policy, that if the popular support for a strict immigration policy is to be maintained, we also need to clear out when something turns out to be a little crazy. That is what I hope we can do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212144	The questioner? No. We shall then thank the Minister and turn to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212157	Thank you. With this resolution, the Radical Left proposes that spouses of children of foreign workers retain their right of residence in Denmark even if the foreign worker acquires Danish citizenship. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that foreign workers, who are here on proper conditions, are of benefit to Danish business. Berlingske could tell about a 47-year-old Indian man who in 2008 came to Denmark from India on a business scheme to work at Odense University Hospital, and the family fell into Denmark. But since after many years the Indian man wanted to have Danish citizenship because he could meet all the requirements, it turned out that his family could be at risk of losing their residence permit. It certainly seems crazy, and it should not be the case that you are significantly better off if you are here on an occupational scheme than if you are a Danish citizen. As the Minister explained, the government is therefore looking at what can be done to avoid similar situations in the future, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212303	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212316	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here deals with the possibility for foreign workers' families to have the right to reside in Denmark. First of all, I would like to say that it makes very good sense for qualified foreign workers to be able to bring their families to Denmark. Otherwise, it may, of course, be more than a little difficult as a company to attract qualified foreign labour. And that is what Danish companies need to have access to if they are to create the growth that is the very prerequisite for our welfare societies. I therefore believe that, on the political side, we also have the task of ensuring that Danish companies have good opportunities to attract the necessary labour. But that's not exactly what this proposal is about. If you cut to the bone, there is a risk that this proposal will ultimately lead to finding a way to avoid the demands of family reunification. Because with this proposal, the spouses and children of foreign workers, if the worker obtains Danish citizenship, will not have to meet the normal requirements for family reunification. Instead, the proposal will allow the right of residence to be maintained in the light of the conditions of their early situation, i.e. the one in which the worker does not basically mean that the problem should not be solved by relaxing or finding a way of avoiding the rules of family reunification. There are very few problems in this society that are solved by more relaxed family reunification rules, and that is why we cannot support the resolution tabled by the Radical Left. Having said that, we recognise that when you look at this set of rules from the outside and also at least one or two cases that have been raised in the public debate, it may seem as if there is no coherence in the current rules. That is why we also found that, when the current minister was on maternity leave, the minister announced that he had started work on looking at these rules. We can also hear today that the Minister, who has now returned, is not going to stop that work. That is why we would also like to say here today, from the platform, that once the Minister has completed that work, we look forward to seeing what the Minister has come up with, and if it is a solution in which we can see ourselves, we will be willing to enter into dialogue on it. So we look forward to entering into a dialogue with all parties, both the government and the Radical Left, when presented to the Folketing. But we cannot support the proposal as it stands here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212609	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212614	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it is a reasonable situation to be faced with the fact that because you have contributed, paid taxes and provided for yourself for many years, that is to say because you are qualified foreign labour, and that you have been given the possibility that your spouse and children can obtain a residence permit in Denmark, then suddenly have to choose. So, when you have contributed so much that you can have Danish citizenship, you must suddenly choose between either getting Danish citizenship or living with your family. Is it a reasonable dilemma to be faced when you have contributed so much to Denmark, when you have worked so hard, and when you have paid so much in taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212702	No, we think that when you look at the rules and when you see the examples that have been developed in the public debate, it seems that there are some places where the rules could well use some improvements. That's one side of it. That is also why we say that we are open to engaging in a dialogue, both with the government and with the parties of the rest of the Folketing, when the work of the Ministry is completed. When we do not just jump directly on the radical proposal here, it is because we see a potential risk that it can create such a system where the family reunification rules will be relaxed for people who have started their lives in Denmark as foreign workers and then have subsequently acquired Danish citizenship, i.e. where the family has been here on an occupational scheme. For this reason, there should not be a system where the fact that you have come here on an occupational scheme as a foreigner gives you a more relaxed family reunification rules when you become a Danish citizen than if you, for example, were to become a Danish citizen. has been a Danish citizen from the start. And that is why we are not jumping directly on the radical proposal here, but we are really recognising the issue and looking forward to dialogue. However, we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212806	But does the rapporteur think that it may be right that it should be a loss of rights to choose to live with a spouse and a child in Denmark? Is it a reasonable dilemma to be faced with either choosing a Danish citizenship for which you have worked and fought for many years by paying taxes and supporting yourself and your family, or choosing your family? Is it a reasonable dilemma to have to choose between the two things?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212834	I know the questioner as an intelligent man, which is why I think the questioner in my reply could conclude that we are ready to see if we can find a solution to this problem, because there are some absurdities in it. But we are not going to jump directly on the radical proposal, because we simply cannot see whether the consequence is that we will have a relaxed family reunification regime for people who have become Danish citizens after they have come here on a business regime, so that there will be two sets of family reunification rules in Denmark: one for people who have always been Danish citizens and one for people who have come here on a business regime. This is an unsustainable situation in which we create two different sets of rules, one of which is, moreover, more relaxed than what we have today. Therefore, we look forward to the work of the Ministry being completed and we can have a good and constructive dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212930	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no further brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Marie Krarup for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201212944	Thank you for the floor. I don't think I've read about these cases. This is, as far as I can understand, a very, very small area; it is a very small problem in terms of numbers, but it sounds as if it is a corner of the area that needs to be looked at. We in the Danish People's Party would, of course, like to do so. We would like to get to grips with the problem and possibly help to change some rules if necessary. However, we do not think it is timely simply to vote in favour of a resolution here, but we would very much like to take part in reviewing the rules and seeing what can be done and, above all, of course, assessing whether we agree that this is a problem that needs to be resolved in this way. But at first sight it seems as if it is a corner of some rules that are not entirely appropriate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213052	Thank you very much, Mrs Krarup, and welcome Mrs Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213105	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating Radicals on this proposal, because clearly what the Minister called an unintended consequence here in the legislation has been found, a gap which opens the door to the lives of some families. We need to make that right. Of course, it cannot be right that you can work here and be self-supporting and pay your taxes for a long time and then finally after becoming a part of Danish society, a full member of Danish society, to experience that your family is told that they can no longer be here. It is clear that this is not the intention either, with the way in which we would at least like to bring the legislation together. That's why the SF supports this proposal. Thank you to Radicals and thank the Minister for supporting it. We look forward to the other discussions as they will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213211	Thank you very much to Mrs Valentina Berthelsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213220	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Radical Left for raising this very important issue for debate today. It is, of course, a slightly different tone and tone than there has been on the clearer foreign policy proposals. So I think that's nice too. After all, in Denmark we are in the absurd situation that a foreign specialist who has come here to solve some tasks that we ourselves are not able to solve is actually better off in terms of securing his family residence permit in Denmark than his neighbour, who is a Danish citizen. Then why are we doing this? We do, of course, because we have a large number of parties in here in the Folketing who have been more busy in tightening up than they have had in making legislation that makes sense. In the background to this proposal, we can read about how an ordinary man who does his job, contributes to society and, moreover, carries out an essential task in the Danish health service, has to give up seeking citizenship because his family loses his residence permit if he acquires citizenship. That's absurd. And that is the result of years of austerity in the area of family reunification. In the Enhedslisten we have a very clear position on that. It should be easier for Danish citizens to have family reunification. In the last year we have seen how the screw has been tightened, so that Danish citizens who want family reunification must meet a wide range of comprehensive requirements. There are strict language requirements that are required for how much money you should have on the coffin floor, and there are requirements for where you should stay. They will enter into force as soon as you pass from having a residence permit on occupational schemes to obtaining Danish citizenship. In the background material here we can also read that the government is aware of the problem, and we could also hear that from the Minister's speech, and that is wonderful. I hope that in this way it will be the start of guaranteeing Danish citizens the same rights as foreign specialists and that it will be the start of when we make foreign policy, it is about foreign policy that makes sense, and not tightening just to tighten. Enhedslisten can warmly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213448	Thank you very much, Mrs Lund, and welcome to Mr Lund. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213503	Thank you, sir. President. I would say that I had to read this proposal a few times before I found my head and tail in it, because at first glance it actually seems strange that a foreign family can live in this country, but that, at the moment one of the spouses gets Danish citizenship, stricter rules apply to the family in order to stay in the country. But when you think about it, it is actually okay, because there should be tighter rules for family reunification to Denmark for a citizen who, all things being equal, is here with the rights that a citizen now has than there is for a family who may just be in the country on short visits to work. If it is the case that we begin to relax the rules for foreigners who acquire Danish citizenship, then all other things being equal means that we must also relax the existing rules for all others who have Danish citizenship. We will of course find that really a pity, because the rules governing family reunification are language requirements, deposit, etc. However, I would like to say that I have put a number of questions in committee to clarify whether the issues I am outlining here are exactly as I think they are, because I think it is a little complex. However, I expect the answers to my questions to support that we Conservatives cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213627	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments, so I would like to know if anyone from New Citizens would like to speak. There isn't. Does anyone from the Liberal Alliance wish to speak? There isn't. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201213817	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate so far. Having Danish citizenship can be a long, tough struggle, but common sense ends when one is forced to choose either to obtain Danish citizenship or to renounce it and live with his family. This is a completely unreasonable dilemma, because choosing the family must not be a loss of rights if, moreover, you meet the conditions for Danish citizenship. Today, the rules are such that a residence and work permit can be granted to a accompanying spouse to a foreign worker if the requirement of self-reliance and legal marriage or permanent cohabitation is fulfilled. Such a residence permit may also be granted to children. However, this applies only as long as the foreign worker is a foreigner and has not acquired Danish citizenship. If the same person obtains Danish citizenship, the accompanying spouse and children lose their residence permit, because under Section 9 of the Aliens Act it is granted only to the spouse and children of a foreigner. It lacks common sense. Real people have gotten into a mess. We have seen this in the public debate, and that is why the Radical Left has tabled this motion for a resolution. We would like to sign for all the positive commitments that have been made in the debate, and we look forward, together with most of the parties in the Folketing, to getting these crazy things done in the legislation and getting a little more common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214019	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If none of you object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214040	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 3 December 2020. I understand that the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Lund, will justify the proposal as an introduction. She has the opportunity to do so now, and after her the two ministers have the opportunity to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214141	Today you can read in the newspaper Berlingske that only 20 of the 50 tents sent by Denmark to Lesbos have arrived. We already believe that this is an inadequate solution to the situation of thousands of refugees, and this is an inadequate solution which has become even more hollow. The government has said in the past that emergency aid will be sent to Lesbos after the Moria camp burned and left more than 13,000 refugees without a roof over their heads. So these are people who were already on the run and who have now lost the place where they lived. After all, part of the emergency aid has not yet arrived, and I wonder if the government really has so little willingness to help people flee that they cannot even ensure that the emergency aid ends in the right place. The only right thing to do is to bring at least 300 children to Denmark, where we can give them a safe home. 14 municipalities have already said that they can be responsible for the integration of these children. We just need the government. We also need to find out what is up and down on the question of the emergency aid that has then been sent. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Free Greens, we have called for this debate and we look forward to hearing the government's explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214327	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the reply from the ministers before we start the debate. It is first the Minister for Development Cooperation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214342	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to contribute to the response to this question. Let me begin by saying that I fully share the concern about the really difficult situation in which the fire in the Moria camp left the camp with some 11 000 inhabitants, including about 1 000. 400 unaccompanied children without a roof over their heads from one day to the next. The fire was an unfortunate incident which unfortunately only made the already difficult situation for the residents of the Moria camp even worse. Therefore, it was important and necessary that Denmark responded and offered its assistance. After the fire Denmark was among the first to offer Greece help. On the same day, 9 September, the Prime Minister reached out to the Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis with an offer of aid, and my predecessor in the Ministry announced on 10 September a doubling of the aid of 22.4 million. kr., which the government had already granted to Greece in April, i.e. a total Danish financial contribution of 44.8 million. kr. The Danish support goes to co-finance Greek refugee reception costs with a focus on improving conditions for unaccompanied refugee and migrant children. Denmark contributes, among other things, to: to the ongoing efforts of the Greek authorities to create more secure and healthy settlements for the unaccompanied refugee and migrant children with access to education, health facilities and leisure activities. The settlements are established on the mainland of Greece and the children are moved away from the overcrowded reception centres on the islands. In addition to the financial contribution, the Minister for Defence decided at Greek request at the beginning of September to send nearly 3,000 high-quality carpets, 10 larger inflatable and warm tents for the accommodation of a larger number of people, as well as 40 smaller tents of the kind used by the Danish Emergency Response Agency in this country for its own and sent out staff and for relief workers during international missions. It is a solid contribution that Denmark has made, and there is also gratitude expressed by the Greek side at the highest level, and I think that is of course welcome. The Danish aid is provided in line with the OECD DAC Development Assistance Directive, which allows donor countries to use development aid to support other donor countries with their refugee reception costs. We are constantly receiving status from the Greek authorities on the work to establish settlements. As regards the contribution of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry has stated that the tent contribution was usually coordinated directly between the Danish Emergency Response Board and the Greek authorities. The grant has been drawn up on the basis of a dialogue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Greek Ministry of Migration and Asylum, which is the recipient of Danish support. The Greek authorities, in cooperation with the UN and the EU, identify the short- and long-term humanitarian needs, including those related to unaccompanied minors. The Danish aid has been drawn up accordingly. Basically it can be said that Denmark, through its contribution, supports the Greek efforts to create good conditions for children now on the mainland of Greece. And with the pressure that Greece is under, aid falls in a dry place. As regards blankets and tents for the Moria camp, the Ministry of Defence states that the Greek authorities have the equipment and that they decide where and when it is relevant to use it. According to information received from the EU, Danish tents together with other EU countries' contributions have been transported to Lesbos in week 44. I would like to thank you for the floor, which I shall now pass on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214828	We will take a brief comment per person. rapporteur, if desired, and then we move on to the next minister. I call Mrs Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214901	Thank you for that, and congratulations on the ministerial post. I just want to know whether the government really believes that it is enough for the Greek Government to decide on this material itself, since we can now read in Berlingske and, incidentally, have heard in the last few months that these tents will never reach Lesbos, that is to say to the people they are intended for. Is that really enough for the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214928	Is that enough? This is at least the rule of law under which cooperation is organised and where we from Denmark, from donor countries to donor countries, make this contribution. This is the way the Emergency Agency cooperates with the authority of another country. That is also what applies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201214947	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs from the parties who want to ask questions. Excuse me, sir. Kristian Hegaard has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215018	Thank you. Congratulations also to the Minister for standing on the floor as Minister. In the Radical Left, of course, we are sorry that the Minister is not coming here today to say that the government will make a very special effort by taking some children to Denmark, who do not seem to have a future and who are feeling really, really bad where they are. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: what is it necessary for the government to be open to help these children and take some of the children to Denmark, like other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215057	Thank you for the question. This is where I shall leave the floor to my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, because the Minister comes up and answers the last question in the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215114	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215123	Congratulations, too, on the ministerial post from here. I understand that one argues that the usual procedures have been followed and that this is very good, but does one think that it is an adequate effort that has been made when one sees that some of the aid that has been sent has not arrived?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215140	I would like to thank everyone for having congratulated me on the ministerial post. I should rightly thank you very much for that, and I do. With regard to the question, I also mentioned in my reply the fact that aid is being handed over to the Greek authorities, and then it is the Greek authorities that are responsible for its use, planning and dispatch. It was the case that the Danish physical assistance was delivered in Athens in agreement with the Greek authorities. I think we can all imagine the somewhat chaotic situation that Greece has been in after the disaster and the fire. We have not been informed by the Danish authorities that this has been done by the Danish Emergency Agency for a whole lot of answers from the Greek authorities. It is also because it expresses some understanding that there have been chaotic conditions. However, it is in accordance with the rules that we have also delivered to another country in a disaster situation via the Emergency Response Authority this time. So the same principles have been followed and have been quite the same flow for the goods. And it is the recipient country which administers it once we have secured it. And here I must say that the Emergency Agency has also informed us that only 61 hours passed from the time we received the message until the goods were delivered. So you were very quick on the trigger, and I think we have reason to rejoice and also praise the Emergency Response Board for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215313	Then I say thank you to the Minister for Development. Thank you, Minister for Development Cooperation. We shall now proceed to the reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215323	I should also like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this issue. The pressure on Greece's external borders, and thus our borders, became very clear when the Moria camp at Lesbos burned down and left a few thousand irregular migrants and asylum seekers without a roof over their heads. There was an acute situation at that time which required us to stand with the Greeks and give them a hand to remedy the problem they face. That is why we also reacted, as the Minister for Development has just explained. Because we in the government are very aware of the challenges facing the Greek authorities. Several of the Greek islands constitute the external border of the European Union and thus also the external border of Denmark and must house the people who enter Europe from Turkey irregularly, and the challenge increased after the Moria camp burned down. The Greek authorities have subsequently reported that six persons have been arrested following the outbreak of the fire. Several media have subsequently deduced that there should be migrants. In response to the question of whether the government will maintain the decision that Denmark should not receive unaccompanied minors or other residents from the Moria camp, the answer is: Yes, we will maintain that. It is important for me to stress that the main factor in this question is that, by participating in redistribution, we would be helping to create a further incentive for even more migrants to move towards the European Union. We all know that those people risk their lives when they put themselves in rubber boats on their way to the European Union. At the same time, this is an illegal industry, on which a mafia of traffickers earns quite a lot of fortunes, and we must by no means support that. We in Denmark should not help to create the basis for more migrants to have an incentive to set their course for Europe, and I believe that we will be involved in this if we say yes to redistribution from Lesbos. Having said that, I and the government fully acknowledge the concerns of those who suddenly stood without a roof over their heads after the camp burned down. There are thousands of people involved, and the Greeks were in a difficult and unpredictable situation that required both time and resources to remedy. And the situation of asylum seekers in Lesbos has not been ideal, and it has been and continues to be the case that the Greek authorities are in a recovery phase. There has been a need to act quickly to find a solution that has been able to accommodate the many asylum seekers. Therefore, the Greek authorities chose to set up a temporary tent camp next to the second permanent camp at Lesbos. At the same time, the Greek authorities have chosen to transfer a number of asylum seekers to mainland Greece, where Denmark has also provided support, as told by the Minister for Development. I would also very much like to answer the second part of the question in a separate and more detailed way, namely whether the government will maintain its refusal to accept people from the Moria camp, regardless of the conditions and specific conditions in the camps in Greece. And let me start by saying that it is not, of course, part of the common EU rules in the area of asylum that Member States should receive redistributed asylum seekers from other EU countries. It would therefore be an active choice on the part of individual Member States to choose to accept asylum seekers from another Member State. No one is required to participate in such redistribution. For example, our neighbouring country of Sweden or Austria has not offered to accept unaccompanied minors from the Moria camp; some other European countries have chosen to do so. The question of whether Denmark will actively go in and receive asylum seekers because we consider that Greece cannot offer them adequate reception conditions is not a way of thinking that we in the government can follow. What we can do and what we have done is to assist an exposed frontline state like Greece by offering them our assistance. Redistribution, as we see it, is a patchy solution, and it is also the screw without end. Instead, we need to address the more fundamental causes in the countries of origin and the challenges in the neighbourhood and along migration routes. That is why it is also our ambition to create an asylum system in which asylum procedures have moved outside Europe's borders. Those who come to Denmark and apply for asylum should be sent to a third country where asylum procedures can be carried out. If they need protection, they must do so locally in the third country and not in Denmark. It is an indispensable condition for such a model that it can be made within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. With the government's ambition, we want to send a signal to migrants and asylum seekers that it is not worth using criminal networks, traffickers, and thus try to get to Europe. The government therefore wants to pursue an alien policy in which we can manage more ourselves, how many and what foreigners come to Denmark, while at the same time wishing to take international responsibility. That is why it is also an essential part of our ambition for a new and fairer asylum system that Denmark provides assistance to the refugees' immediate areas, and that the resettlement that is to take place to Denmark should be done in a controlled manner through the UN Refugee Organisation. In this way, it is our conviction that we can use the resources best and help the most. I would like to conclude by stating that the government, like the other European countries, takes this situation very seriously, which is why we have chosen to help the Greek authorities financially. However, we still do not consider that the redistribution of asylum seekers is a viable solution. I have followed and continue to follow developments in Greece closely, just as I generally follow the challenges of tackling irregular migration in frontline states closely. Greece is one of them, but there are also other frontline states in Europe that are also facing great challenges. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215927	You're welcome. There are a few comments, and the first one is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201215932	Thank you. I am, of course, very sorry that the government is not today ready to take some of these children to Denmark, just as other EU countries have done, and in the same way as a large number of municipalities with, among others. Social Democratic mayors across the country have also signed up for. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister sees a contradiction between taking 300 children from Moria, for example, and at the same time fighting the cowardly and wrong trafficking in human beings and other things that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220017	The short answer is yes. I see a contradiction between that. Because if we begin to redistribute people who have arrived in Europe and who have partly used traffickers to come here, then we are sending the signal that if you want a future in a North European welfare state, one of the methods could be to pay people smugglers money to move from Turkey to a Greek island, for example. Lesbos. I only believe that even more unaccompanied minors from, for example. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh and elsewhere will end up in a boat on our way to Lesbos if we start redistributing from there. That is why it is the screw without end and a very short-term solution. I would much rather say, as we have done, that we are pursuing a strict immigration policy, which is as few as possible to seek asylum in Denmark. When we bring down the number of asylum seekers, we begin to receive, as quietly as we have done this year, people who are recognised as refugees, whom the UN has assessed as refugees and who are in Rwanda and who are not in the vicinity of using traffickers to come to Europe, and say that if you are going to Europe, it is controlled through the United Nations; it is not through traffickers. That is why I think it would be a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220138	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220138-2	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that we have a dysfunctional asylum system and that fundamental reforms are needed. But now the reality is that these children cannot use it for anything, that we want some fundamental reforms of the asylum system. They are in a situation where they need our protection. Why can't the government decide that both in this extremely acute situation for these people we can help them and then fight for some long-term solutions to the Gordian knot that our asylum system is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220222	Some of the people who are staying on the Greek islands need protection, but very, very many do not need protection. The rates of recognition throughout Europe show this. The majority of people seeking asylum in Europe are not granted asylum. So if we start redistributing these people, we should also be aware that a large part of them do not need protection at all, and when we have dealt with their asylum case in Denmark and they have been refused, we are stuck with it. Then it is our responsibility to have them sent to all the countries of the world, and we know how difficult that is. A rejected asylum seeker in Denmark costs DKK 300,000. a year. We can have many hours of home help for this, but we can also get a lot of support and help for refugees who are actually refugees and who are staying in Rwanda, Yemen, Lebanon, Turkey, people who we know are refugees. So I think we should also ask ourselves how we use the resources in the best way possible. I do not believe that we are using resources to the best of our ability by redistributing people who know that a large proportion of them have no protection at all, but perhaps have been sent in advance by families in an attempt to get a foothold in a European country so that they can either be here afterwards, get a residence permit in one way or another and seek family reunification or just have a future in Europe where you can work black and send some money home. I really don't think that's the way forward. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220340	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220343	Well, now it's one of them. expensive to have rejected asylum seekers in Denmark because we ourselves have created a system that makes it really, really expensive. That is not what the question debate is about. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he really is comfortable sending money to a state which is already engaged in a case where it is very doubtful that EU funds will actually end up in refugee camps, in other words, giving these people a roof over their heads. What the former Minister for Development, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, said it was government policy to help these children get roofs over their heads. But what has happened is that a new camp has been built where conditions are extremely bad, and we can then read in the Berlingske Tidende today that less than half of the Danish contribution has ended there. Is it really satisfactory for the government, which speaks so much against fraud, that the money being sent does not end up for the purpose for which they were sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220445	The question was whether the government is safe to cooperate with Greece, and we are. I would even say that in the time I have been Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have seen that it is a government that gets ever better grip on the situation and is able to enforce the EU's external border far better than we saw a few years ago. In fact, I think we saw this a little year ago, when there was quite a lot of pressure on the Greek-Turkish border, and where I think the Greek authorities proved able to enforce the pan-European border in a completely different and far more effective and cashier way than we had seen in the past. Otherwise, I agree with what the Minister for Development says about cooperation with Greece. It's not like we're talking about a country here. It is a European partner and, when we support them, it is in a way that we do not send audits and controls afterward for the money, but where we trust that the people with whom we work will use them where they help the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220554	Thank you, Minister. There are no more comments. We shall now proceed to the debate, and there is the order in which the rapporteur for the questioners first speaks, then the parties come in order, and afterwards, contrary to the first round, short remarks are available for all members of the Folketing in principle, but at least all those who are present. Here you go to Mrs Rosa Lund, draftsman of the opinion of the authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201220621	Thank you. We are in a situation where Denmark will have to react. There are thousands of children and their parents, I would say, who need help. We have a prime minister in Denmark who prides himself on being the prime minister of the children. What the Prime Minister of the children has done in this situation is that she has sent some tents that then do not even come out. I think it's obscene. The conditions in the Moria camp were bad in advance. It was a camp that was built for 3,000 people, but there lived up to 13,000 people. We don't know, sir. Minister for Foreign Affairs, whether these people have a need for protection. I am of the opinion that once you have fled, it is probably because you have a need for protection. We are in a situation where conditions were bad enough in advance, and now they have become even worse because these people have lost what was their temporary home. Yet we cannot get the government to react. You send some money, but it suggests as a tailor in hell when it comes to a situation with so many people who lack a roof over their heads. Finland, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Croatia, Portugal, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, France, Norway and the Netherlands have all declared themselves ready to undertake jointly the task of ensuring the safety and security of the children of the Moria camp. These are, in fact, a number of countries with which we in Denmark tend to compare ourselves and cooperate. That is why I am surprised that the government does not choose the same strategy. From the government's side, Kaare Dybvad Bek, acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, announced back in September that Denmark would not help because it would get even more on the dangerous journeys of traffickers in rubber boats. The Foreign Minister also mentioned this. I just have to say that we have a very good system for getting rid of people smugglers: the quota refugee system, but there the government has also chosen to take only 200. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that there is no room for 300 children. It is not only incomprehensible to me, it is also incomprehensible to 14 municipalities in this country who have agreed to be responsible for the integration of these children. You could call the mayors of these 14 municipalities the mayors of the children, at least I think they deserve that title more than our Prime Minister deserves the title of the Prime Minister of the children. I would also like to say that this is not, of course, about people who are on their way to Europe, or people who are considering fleeing to Europe; it is about people who are already in Europe and are already part of the very, very poorly functioning asylum system that is in the European Union. That's why I'm not buying the government's arguments. It is about children who are right now without a place to sleep and without any kind of security. It is quite obvious to me that Denmark has to help, because there is room with us. The number of asylum seekers in Denmark is historically low, in fact it is so low that we close asylum centres. I cannot therefore understand why it is said that there is no room or money for Denmark to accept these children. It's an emergency. I think we need to act a little decently for once and show the rest of Europe that we are on the side of those countries that can easily accept and look after these children. We can do that in Denmark too. As I said, asylum is low, we have only taken 200 quota refugees. It's so low that we shut down asylum centres. There is both room and affordability for Denmark to accept 300 children. On behalf of the authors of the inquiry (EL, RV, SF and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that the refugee situation at Lesbos has only worsened since the Moria camp was burned down. The situation is so serious that it is not enough simply to send tents to Greece. Parliament therefore calls on the government to accept 300 refugee children from Lesbos and to send the necessary emergency aid directly to the Greek island of Lesbos. • V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221131	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221139	Thank you. First of all, thank you for inviting me to come and discuss this subject. Secondly, I would like to ask Rosa Lund if she believes that if you went along with this premise to bring people here, that there would be more people coming to Europe next year in these rubber boats, and how she Lund believes that the death toll would develop. In addition, I should like to say that I shall just see how much time I have left in the Sahel region there are 2.5 million internally displaced persons in round numbers. In Honduras and El Salvador the figure is 300,000. There are approx. 1 million rohingya refugees in Bangladesh. Well, what about all these people who haven't been on TV lately? Why do they not be cared for? Why was it not the case that we spent some of the money that we are going to spend on rejected asylum seekers here at home to help the world and to do some good there instead? There we would have much more humanism for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221241	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to say that there is one minute for the first time that it sounded as if the questioner was not aware of how much speaking time we are carrying. We're going by 1 minute the first time and 1⁄2 minutes for the second question. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221300	Thank you. Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Rasmus Stoklund, that I always want to discuss this, so he can kind of just call. I heard it as a lot of questions in one. First of all, I'm asked how I think the death toll will develop. Well, with the pushbacks we see from Frontex, I'm afraid the death toll is going to develop in the wrong direction. Will the number of refugees rise because we are taking 300 children in Denmark? I don't know, but I think it's going to rise because there are a lot of major disasters and wars in the world. In fact, there are 80 million people on the run. And I think, sir. Rasmus Stoklund asks something really important: what about all those who do not go on television? Well, I can promise we'll take care of them in the Enhedslisten. That is why we believe that many more quota refugees should be taken than those we are taking today. That is why we believe that it should be much easier to obtain a residence permit in Denmark than it is today. That is why we believe that family reunification should be much easier than it is today. And that is why we believe that development aid must be significantly higher than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221403-2	I have no doubt that Mrs Rosa Lund is willing to invite a great many people here, but if we should try to deal with it in a way where the premise was that we had to help people out in the world because it is a question of millions of people, then the matter is different. And here it's just my experience that you, among other things. In the Enhedslisten, in particular, care for what is equally the media's attention at the moment, and that is what surprises me. And at the same time it was, on average, 25 people a week, I think it was that drowned last year because they left on falling rafts. So how do you think that figure will develop if you create an incentive model in which refugees, if they only reach Greece, get directly to Mrs Rosa Lund?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221447	Well, I just have to repeat my answer from earlier: unfortunately, I think it will rise if Frontex continues to behave as Frontex behaves. And I can reassure you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund said that we in the Enhedslist are also preoccupied with what is not just hitting the media. That's why we've actually spent some time investigating these things, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. So I do not share the concern of the Social Democratic Party, and I can just guarantee that we in the Enhedslist will remain preoccupied with the many people who are on the run around the world. That is why we are in favour of higher climate aid and higher development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221525	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. We now come to the traditional order of rapporteurs. The first is sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221539	Thank you. Fortunately, most of us share the view that we should help the world's refugees. In the Social Democratic Party, we have an ambition to move asylum treatment out of Europe. If we succeed, we can help far more refugees than is the case today. We could help 600,000 of the world's most disadvantaged refugees for the amount we spend in Denmark on 10,000 asylum seekers • 10,000 asylum seekers, many of whom are not given asylum at all, because they are not refugees. At the same time, we wanted to remove the incentive for people in the Third World to embark on the deadly journey towards Europe. Last year, on average, 25 people drowned a week in the Mediterranean. Some of those who survived the journey came to Greece, and Greece has since been under great pressure. That's why the government decided in the spring to send 22.4 million. kr. to Greece, and after the fire in the Moria camp, that amount doubled and 22.4 million was sent. kr. More. That money has to be, among other things. used to create homes for the many unaccompanied children in the country, and we have also sent other equipment. But we should not accept asylum seekers from Moria. If we redistribute asylum seekers and migrants who enter the EU irregularly, then even more will try their luck. There will be even greater pressure on Greece and Europe, and at the same time we know that many people in the Moria camp do not have an asylum base. We cannot organize Danish foreign policy according to what is currently on the television screen. Millions of children worldwide urgently need food, clean drinking water, and medicine. Even if they are not in Europe, they also need help. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Greek authorities have needed assistance as a result of the burning of the Moria camp and leaving thousands of people without a roof over their heads. The Danish Parliament also notes that Denmark responded to the Greek need to support with a financial contribution to getting unaccompanied minors out of the camps on the islands and to safe settlements on the mainland and also with tents and blankets on the basis of Greek request. The Danish Parliament supports the government's continued follow-up to the situation in Greece and notes that it is not a viable solution to redistribute asylum seekers and unaccompanied minors from the Greek islands to Denmark or other European welfare states, as it will bring even more people smugglers' dangerous journeys in rubber boats. V 22).
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221809	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221811	Thank you. There's a lot of things in mr. Rasmus Stoklund's speech that upsets me, but there are also some things that make me happy. And this is the fact that the Social Democrats are not just concentrating on the issues that affect the media. We look forward to seeing this done in practice in the Committee on the Rights of the Child and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, I should like to say a word of greeting. What I would like to ask is that there are just some Socialist mayors who have said that they believe that some children from the Moria camp can be welcomed. So it is some mayors who are members of the same party as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Is it because they haven't understood it, or is it because mr. Rasmus Stoklund doesn't understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201221855	It's not a matter of not understanding anything. It is a question of having some attitudes in one's life. They are individuals, and they are welcome to have some foreign policy attitudes. But that is not what determines what the social democracy's foreign policy line is. We have a responsibility to have a comprehensive view of how things stand in Denmark. Integration is not going very well in Denmark. I know that Mrs Rosa Lund and others claim the opposite, but that is not true. Integration is not going very well in Denmark. We discussed this earlier this day on another occasion in a radio broadcast. Should there be a single municipality in Denmark where integration goes smoothly, I have said on several occasions that I would very much like to hear from them, because that would be exciting. And if they had at the same time broken the code for how to make integration succeed, it could also be that there were some best practice experiences that could be spread to the rest of Denmark. But even if that were the case, it is still a problem that the general picture is that integration is not going well. And then you could start by relieving some of the municipalities that have massive problems every day in their primary schools and in other contexts where integration is really difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222002	Thank you. It is quite true that you do not necessarily mean the same thing because you are a member of the same party. It just makes an impression on me that there are mayors around the country who are responsible for integration and who are experts in everyday life on this thing that says: We can actually house some refugee children. I think we should listen to that. I have another question: how do you know? Rasmus Stoklund from the fact that the people of the Moria camp do not have a need for protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222039-2	There is no indication of the rates of recognition seen in some parts of Europe, nor in those coming from Greece, that in this particular case only regular asylum seekers are involved, i.e. where it is not irregular immigration of any kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222059	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222101	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to say that I am rather saddened to hear the Socialist rapporteur raise this debate to a meta-level and then not to relate to what is going on in our backyard. That is why I would like to read something to the rapporteur to tell the rapporteur how things really stand: food and drink are extremely limited. Two meals are served a day, and your family's breakfast consists of four tomatoes, four apples and a pack of biscuits for sharing. The second meal is often almost inedible uncooked rice and bad meat. Food is often rotten and leads to diarrhea and vomit. Deaths, fires, serious diseases and multiple suicide attempts have been reported since 2015, even among children. These conditions are particularly severe for children, who are affected very severely, both physically and psychologically. Many children sit and stare into the air and are difficult to get in touch with. I would like to appeal to us to try to focus on what the question debate is really about, and then I would like to call on the rapporteur once again to support the Social Democrats in taking these 300 children home from the pitiful conditions in which they live, and I would like to hear: is this something that the rapporteur will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222219	No, it isn't, and now, sir. Sikandar Siddique reads to me and thanks for that, so there is no doubt that living under those conditions is not good and that they are having a difficult time and that they need to be helped. That is why the Danish Government has done a great deal to try to help and support the Greek authorities. But I think it's gonna be a little provincial when Mr. Sikandar Siddique insists on dealing only with refugees in one place in the world. In other words, we could have talked about some of the millions of displaced persons from South Sudan who have fled to Ethiopia and Uganda. If sir... Sikandar Siddique should have read a text about what they get to eat and how many meals a day they get, Mr. Sikandar Siddique saw that it had been about such a "what should you say all inclusive" bathroom holidays for them? It didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222315	I totally understand that we can't help the whole world. But I am also entirely convinced that we can help far more than we are doing today. So if it's an invitation, I understand that we're discussing where else we can help the world. But right now it's about the Moria camp. It's about these kids, and it's about these families; it's about something that's in our backyard. If the Social Democratic Party does not want to take these children home, I would ask whether the Social Democratic Party will be involved in sending housing containers to Lesbos so that people staying in these camps do not freeze to death over the winter. Is the Social Democratic Party ready to send additional aid in the form of housing containers to Lesbos? Because that is really needed right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222409	Sir. Sikandar Siddique wants to blow and have flour in his mouth, because on the one hand you say that you want to help a lot of people around the world, and on the other hand you say that this is only about the people in the Moria camp, then there is something in my head that logically comes together. The fact is that the funds are limited, which must be given priority, and here I am just saying, if we are to put it so concisely, that the way we get the most humanism for money is to help out in the world instead of bringing a very small group of people here, many of whom do not want an asylum base at all, and then spend a great deal of money on them and then spend a great deal of money on trying to get them to leave the country again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222452	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222457	I think it is quite sad that the Socialists will not take part in a joint responsibility in the European Union today either and help these very, very needy children • children who sleep on the streets, children who are alone and, for many, without their parents, children who have so much difficulty that we cannot imagine it, far from a safe children's room. What does it take for the Socialists to help these very needy children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222529-2	Well, sir, I can reassure you. Kristian Hegaard says that, of course, we would very much like to help these needy children, and that is why, not least after the Moria camp was burned, we made arrangements to send even more money to the Greek authorities so that they could build some decent facilities, also for the sake of the children, and, moreover, that the Danish Government has informed the Greek authorities that they must point out what kind of help they need from us in terms of securing equipment and so on. So we'd really like to help these kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222606-2	What I asked, of course, was just to take one more step, so help the children so properly and take them to Denmark and do, as many other EU countries do: take part in the responsibility; do just as the 14 municipalities who have said they would actually like to commit themselves to, if the government also got the courage to help these very needy children. What does it take for the Social Democrats to take responsibility and take some of these children to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222636	We are not going to take these children to Denmark, and I may feel that I am going to repeat myself a little, but if we do, then the next thing that follows is family reunifications. After that, it is asylum procedures. There will be one case after another, which will first be dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Council and then come to the Refugee Board, and they will be refused, and then they will be in asylum centres for years because they refuse to go home, and many of them will not prove to have an asylum basis. We'll spend millions of dollars. Some of the money we could have spent in the Sahel region, we could have spent it on rohingya refugees, we could have spent it elsewhere in the world where lots of people are suffering and need help, as well as we spend money in Moria to help those who are suffering and need help there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222715	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222716	I think it's a little sad that sir. Rasmus Stoklund sweeps Mr. Sikandar Siddique's descriptions of the terrible conditions for the people of Moria that there are also other people in the world who feel bad. It's quite obvious. Everyone in this Parliament knows that, that is, there are many refugees around the world who feel terrible, but now we are debating the children of Moria and whether we should help them. But if the rapporteur does not want to take some of these children from the Moria camp to Denmark, then I can hear that this is particularly a matter of concern in relation to trafficking in human beings. I think it's a little searched, but then it's what it is. Will the government not then at least increase the number of quota refugees we are taking in Denmark? In other words, there is a contribution to a model which obviously does not contribute to increased trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222807	First of all, I find it sad that there are so many rapporteurs in this Chamber this evening who think it is all sad. But then to answer the final question here: No, I think Denmark has done a great job ever since 2015, when a lot of refugees came to Denmark in the wake of the crisis in Syria. We've taken quota refugees. We're doing a lot of things in the world to help. We are increasing development aid. I think we have done a lot, and at the same time we can see that integration is not going very well in Denmark. There are some good examples of how things are going a little less badly than they used to be. But the general picture is that things are going badly. And that is why it would be strange, as a government, to deliberately take steps which would make things even worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222908	We thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201222919	Thank you for that, President. I love that you refer to the Left as the Danish Liberal Party every time. That fg. I understand that it is in the list of names). Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this question. It is a difficult subject that we are debating here today, because it is a matter of thousands of people, including children, living on the streets as a result of the very sad situation that arose after the burning down of the Moria camp. It is as far from the safe life that children and families deserve. I'm sorry it's children who suffer because children are innocent. But that does not change the fact that their parents have chosen to pay large sums of money to smugglers who send children and parents on a very dangerous and uncertain journey across the Mediterranean in overcrowded rubber boats. I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that this is a terrible situation, but how are we going to help? This is where politics will be difficult. This is where we see different ways to help. For the Left, it is important that we do not pursue a policy in which traffickers remain the road to Europe. If the European countries, including Denmark, choose to bring these children to the country, we risk creating many more migratory flows to Denmark and to Europe. Although the flow of refugees and migrants has slowed down this year, we have to note that many families are still embarking on a very dangerous journey in unsafe boats, with the result that thousands of people drown and die. In addition, many who reach Europe do not have a real need for protection. This means that they are denied asylum and must be forced to return home again. While that happens, there are greedy smugglers sitting there and making a lot of money arranging these trips. In the Left, therefore, we do not see that the right solution is to bring children to Denmark from the Moria camp. Instead, we believe that the government must continue to make efforts to create better facilities for all the innocent children who are now in this terrible situation. Our assessment is that the most effective way to help is to help in the neighbourhoods and in the camps up to Europe's borders. The government has so far granted more than 22 million. kr. to Greece and sent both blankets and tents. Later it came out, however, of the tents were useless during the winter months, and of course it is not sustainable at all, for it will also be winter, even at Lesbos. That is why the Left also expects the government, of course, to send help that really makes a difference and actually helps the thousands of people who have become homeless. I also think that the Minister for Development explained this very well. In these words, I should like to say that the Left and the DF make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that many refugees and migrants continue to come to Europe's borders and that action against traffickers must be strengthened. Rubber boats and other unsafe vessels with refugees and migrants must be turned around. They must not be the way to Europe. Danish development assistance should include: is used to counteract the trends that drive human flows towards Europe. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark has provided satisfactory assistance to the affected after the fire in the refugee camp at Lesbos. The problem is so serious that the Folketing will ask the government to honour the promises of a reception centre outside Europe within a two-year period. • V 23).
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223315	Thank you very much, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. Sorry, sir, a brief comment has just been made. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223328	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that so long as so few people are willing to reduce and alleviate the burden on Greece, for example, we risk seeing a build-up in poor and unworthy conditions, a lack of legal certainty for asylum seekers at the border and poor integration of those who are legally resident. In other words, we run the risk of opening doors, which is not appropriate if everyone does not contribute and take joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223408	Yes, it can be said that at least some doors will be opened if it is, you send out that signal to the world and, in particular, to smugglers, that it is a viable way to take these poor people out on. I also have to say that today 300 children are being talked about, but that is absolutely nowhere if it is finally going to get there. So I really think it is important to send out a signal to the world and to the traffickers in particular that we do not accept this. This is not a way to send people out and away from their surroundings, and that is also why I have it in my proposal for adoption with DF, namely that we really want the government to get started as soon as possible on this reception centre outside Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223454	Now I know that the rapporteur's party, the Liberal Party of Denmark, is a great advocate of the European Union, and that is why I would like to ask about it. In other words, is the rapporteur not worried about, or does the rapporteur not see any chance, that if we do not show solidarity, if we do not resolve this together in the European Union and remedy the problems in Greece, then we can risk people leaking from Greece through irregular channels to the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223535-2	I think that we are very much in favour of solidarity and that we are putting 22 million dollars in money. kr. Greece also sends a signal to the other countries and to our allies in Europe that we must show solidarity. The other countries also contribute both by financial means and by tents and blankets etc. So I think that is something that has already been signalled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223552	Let me give you my word that we have had brief comments. There are at least two more. The next one is from Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223602	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a far-reaching and sympathetic speech. However, I am concerned that, as in the case of the Socialists, there is much more concern for traffickers than there is for the children who actually need our help. I just want to know where the Left is in relation to the question of whether, for example, it will reach. other governments or Denmark are sending help, it is up to Greece, that is to say the authorities there, to decide where and how that help is to be used. Is that satisfactory for the Left? And we have seen that there has been fraud, we have seen that much of our help has not arrived. What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223650	Let me start by replying lately. I think I have been a little involved in my speech, and I also have the expectation that the government will handle that. But now it is not a banana republic; it is Greece that we cooperate with. So I put it safely in their hands and with the expectation that it will work out and that it will also work out in the future, despite the fact that there have been individual cases where it has not been resolved. Then you mentioned the human smugglers thing, and you mention that the Left may be a little too concerned with traffickers, but that's because the traffickers are responsible for people dying on the road. It is people who are so greedy and so indifferent to other people's lives that they are willing for financial gain to put children on their gardens. That's why. It's hard when we have that discussion, not looking at the smugglers, because they're a big part of this problem. It is also for this reason, as I mentioned about the reception centre in the proposal for adoption, that it is absolutely essential that we have a look at a reception centre outside Europe where we can just look at it. And, as the Social Democrat rapporteur and perhaps the Minister also mentioned, this is a matter for the United Nations. That was the answer to the first question, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223804	It is true that the traffickers are the cause of real, very much sorrow and many deaths, etc. etc. But until we get it right until the European Union gets to grips with another refugee regime, these children are suffering at the same time. Frankly, I mean if for a moment we completely distract ourselves from the ideological debate about whether or not we want more refugees... that this is about 300 children. What difference will it make in relation to the overall refugee situation we have and the refugees who are currently coming to Denmark? That is why it is just an appeal to the Left that, in this matter at least, right now and here, we are not waiting for reception centres and are not waiting for a new refugee regime, but are helping these 300 children who urgently need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223902	I also think it has been disgusting to see some of those examples. I also think and hope that I explained this very well in my speech. For what I said in my speech, 100% is also the approach I have to it. But I also have to say that it really doesn't help bringing 300 children here. Millions of children around the world are now in the same situation in all sorts of different ways. So I'm sorry to say this, but bringing 300 kids here doesn't help anything. Let us now focus on development aid, let us now focus on helping in the neighbourhood, let us now focus on a reception centre outside Europe's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223941	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201223945	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I thought there were a lot of interesting things in this speech. After all, this is a refugee camp built for 3 000 people, where 13 000 people lived. Now it's burned. Does the Left really believe that sending 22 million will help anything? kr. Go, when we can even read that the money does not actually even come to the refugee camp? Well, can't the Left see that there's something here that's not connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224017	In other words, in relation to the fact that some of the money has not even come to the refugee camp, I really think I also explained it in the previous question. I have an expectation of that being handled. It is not a banana republic we are working with here, it is Greece. I have the expectation that it will deal with the government, and I think the Minister also explained this in his opening speech. In fact, we also have historical challenges in the field of integration and aliens. I am saying this right now because frankly I do not remember what the rapporteur asked about afterwards. But it's just to mention that this is also a problem that is quite important to focus on. We already have such great challenges here in Denmark with our integration that I do not see the logic of starting to sit and work on either dragging more quota refugees or now these 300 unaccompanied refugee children up here. We ourselves already have plenty of challenges: historic, violent challenges with integration policy. There's plenty to do. Then I think I remembered the other thing with the 22 million. kr. I understand that the rapporteur raises that debate. It's also part of this query debate. Actually, I don't agree. In fact, I think that sending 22 million. kr. are jointly and severally supportive. We sent them to Greece. We have also contributed all sorts of other things. We're somewhere along the way where we're supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224137	It is just very, very clear that it is not money, tents or blankets that are needed here. What is needed is to have a joint distribution of refugees in Europe. And that means that Denmark must take some of the refugees. Our asylum numbers are historically low, and integration is going well. That's why we can do this job.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224206	I do not think I need to comment further on the latter, because I think the rapporteur is aware that I disagree with that. But I still have to say: it is important for me, and it is important for the Left, that we focus on helping in the neighbourhood and that we focus on the reception centre that the government has promised for a long time to look at. And that is why the proposal for adoption that we have made together with DF says that we also expect the government to resolve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224230	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. There was room for a great deal of debate anyway. And welcome to Mrs. Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224238	Denmark should not receive more immigrants and asylum seekers. We need to stop the influx. We must have turned the rubber boats over Middelfart, no, of course the Mediterranean is not Middelfart; they will not get that far after all, but otherwise I also believe that the Danish People's Party is turning the boats there. We need to turn the rubber boats around. We need to stop the human smugglers' business model. And, of course, we should not give in to the sentimentalisation that the Left is now trying to persuade the Social Democrats, that is, because they have seen children on television who are suffering, they are going to Denmark. There are lots of children suffering all over the world. It is sad, but it does not mean that we have to increase immigration to Denmark, so that Danish children will also suffer; we actually have a great responsibility for these. So what we need to do is to help in the neighbourhood as well as we can now and then make it quite clear that we cannot have access to Europe and certainly not to Denmark as a spontaneous refugee. And we should not receive refugees redistributed via the EU system. So we have made the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Left read aloud earlier, and that says what I have just said in my short speech. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224418	Thank you very much, Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. In the meantime, I can tell you that we should at least now be on the way to having the following in print: motion for a resolution No. V 21 by Rosa Lund, Kristian Heegaard, Carl Valentin and Sikandar Siddique and proposals for adoption no. V 22 of Rasmus Stoklund. We'll probably also get one more round transmission for you before we stop the debate. At least three proposals have been submitted for adoption. If there were to be others, we would have to have them during the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224557	Thank you for the floor. 4,200 children are in acute distress in Moria, 2,000 of them are unaccompanied, not adults, not old, but children, children with a possible future, at least if we give them what children can play, children who can go to school, children who can grow up, instead of lying on the streets of Moria. Many of them do not have parents, they are all alone in a burnt-down refugee camp where there is no more, with limited food, far from a safe nursery as we know it. They don't have anyone to hold their hands when they have to sleep at night, but they can do that if we want to. Let us help the Prime Minister to be the prime minister of children for the most vulnerable children in Europe at the moment. They suffer on all parameters a harm that we should not tolerate, they live in obscene conditions without protection from adults, they suffer both physical and psychological harm, and the prospect of their asylum case being dealt with in Greece is irresponsibly long. That is why we need to find common solutions to the challenge of asylum seekers in Europe. It is not sustainable for border countries such as Greece to bear the full burden of meeting that challenge, especially in the current situation where covid-19 makes it imperative to spread people and houses them in safe and healthy conditions. This is the lack of solidarity, which is one of the main obstacles to getting the migration situation in the European Union under control and getting organized conditions. For so long as very few will reduce and ease the burden on Greece, for example, we will see an accumulation in poor and unworthy conditions, a lack of legal certainty for asylum seekers at the border and a poor integration of those who are legally resident, in other words violence on their own European values. And there will be a great risk of people leaking through irregular channels to the rest of Europe. Support in the form of money and personnel is one important way to show solidarity, relief in this way by having children for Denmark will be another way. For a sea of other EU countries have already decided that they will take some of the children to heart. If they can in the Norwegian centre-right government and in the German conservative government, we can also in Denmark help children in need, and we have seen that several municipalities are willing to make themselves available, including municipalities with social democratic mayors. It can't be fast enough, and even though Denmark is a small country, we can show a big mind. We can be the big ones and help the little ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201224947	There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Kristian Hegaard for the speech. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201225003	Thank you. If I were to start this speech quite traditionally, I would say something about the Moria camp being the symbol of Europe's failed immigration policy for years. It is the symbol of our inability to reform the asylum system and results in even more suffering than war and conflict already creates itself, and it is the symbol of how we fail the European Community by not helping our Greek friends when they are in need. And it is the symbol that by 2020 we are still unable to help some of the people who most need it. My whole speech could have been about it if I kept it old-fashioned. But if I were instead to cut the question that this debate is all about right into my head and cut away all these facts about Moria and the fire and the suffering, the question is actually quite simple: what is the argument that we cannot receive 300 children fleeing from war and conflict at a time when we are receiving a record low number of refugees? It is an incredibly simple question, and my guess is that none of the parties that refuse to receive refugee children from Moria will give a good answer today. There will be something about us not giving incentives to traffickers. I and the SF totally agree that we shouldn't. In fact, the SF would like to see a radical reform of the entire asylum system, which is currently the lifeline of smugglers. However, one must be creative in order to make a link between the reception of a few hundred refugee children and an industry of gangsters who put people in containers or in wobbly boats. The truth is that the opponents of helping children from Moria know that Denmark can easily lift our share of European responsibility here without affecting any incentive structures or anything else, and that the proposal to accept those children is a small drop in the ocean, which is about a fellow human responsibility, which is about doing something concrete for some people who are in need right now, while waiting for the reforms of the system that we all want. The opponents of helping these children also know that we have only received 200 quota refugees this year and that we have a record low level of asylum, so there are no integration-related arguments that can really be raised in this context either. The truth is probably rather that you want to avoid accepting refugees that you are not forced to accept. I think that's a shame. A new asylum system requires solidarity and cooperation across countries. The cooperation that many other European nations have now put into the sea to relieve Moria is what we need more of now. Several countries taking active responsibility are the only alternative to the current broken-down spontaneous asylum system. So if the rapporteurs who are taking the floor today and talking about reforms of the asylum system really mean it, then I think that, like the Socialist People's Party, they should support the quota refugee system and bilateral agreements between countries that are committed to resettlement when special circumstances arise which make it obvious necessary. With thoughts for the children from Moria: Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201225419	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments, and so we move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201225437	Thank you, sir. President. I am pleased that we are taking the debate on the difficult situation in the Moria camp here in the Folketing, because the debate highlights the important point of view that we Conservatives have and which I understand we share with all the blue parties and the Social Democrats, namely that we in Denmark must do what we can to help locally. We've done that before. This has been done by the present government, and the previous government has helped locally around the world. However, bringing migrants and asylum seekers here to Denmark will be something that makes the challenges we already have with integration in Denmark even harder, but it will also, as has been mentioned this evening, support the business model of people smugglers, who are trying to sail people to Europe and sell them the dream that if they just reach Europe's borders, they will be transported northwards to the North European welfare states. If you support that business model, yes, there is a risk that even more people will drown on their way across the Mediterranean. So we Conservatives support the intentions of the first text, the text that Rasmus Stoklund of Social Democracy has read out. It is one that has been discussed among different parties. This evening I understand that the Left and the Danish People's Party have found a different text, which I also think is very fine, but I have not been able to turn it around with my party by its very nature. We work 24 hours a day, but we don't have group meetings at night right now. I think that, with all due respect for the DF and the Left, is a bit of a bad style, because I would have liked to have been able to reverse that text with my group. Because when I read it, including the part about fulfilling the government's promises of an exit centre outside Europe, I think it is actually positive too. However, out of respect for my group, I would just like to have the opportunity to reverse both texts before I say which one we are voting for. However, as I have said, the text from the Social Democrats and the text from the Left and the DF is of immediate benefit to us. So that's our conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201225647	Thank you. There are no brief comments and I understand that there are no further proposals for adoption at this stage. Then I can announce that New Citizens have decided not to ask for the floor in this context. I want to know if anyone wants to represent the Liberal Alliance in this case. There isn't. Then we'll go to mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique, who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201225722	Thank you for the floor. The Lesbos camps and their inhuman conditions have long been criticised by the European Commission, the UNHCR and several recognised international NGOs as well as Danish Refugee Aid. In addition, Greek communities have demonstrated several times against the inhumane conditions of the camps. If nothing else is done to remedy the situation in a very short space of time, it will turn into a violent, violent humanitarian disaster which will have incalculable consequences, not only for the refugees of the camps and for Greece, but for all the governments and political leaders of the European Union, who will be held accountable by the citizens of the European Union for not doing enough and not preventing the ticking Greek tragedy. IOM states that 20 of the 50 Danish tents have arrived at Lesbos and that Danish carpets are distributed continuously. The rest of the aid hasn't come out yet. The Emergency Agency states that the small Danish camping tents were sufficient for accommodation at the time they were sent, but that they are no longer. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Danish Emergency Aid Agency have previously stated that the Danish emergency aid delivery is coordinated by the EU and in close coordination with the Greek authorities, who are responsible for distributing the relief aid to the camps. The EU has allocated a total of 2.7 billion to Greece. EUR to deal with migration. The Greek newspaper Philelephtheros Daily shows how relief funds have been misused by the Greek Ministry of Defence. The three journalists who wrote the report were later arrested by the Greek authorities. The EU Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, started an investigation into the case in 2017, but in April 2020 the Commission announced that the investigation had not yet been completed. Today it remains uncertain whether and how the whole of the exceptional Danish emergency aid has arrived. A Danish volunteer relief worker named Mette Nielsen collected DKK 210,000. to the children of the camp in 2 weeks. For that amount she bought 1,300 pairs of children's boots with wool, 300 pairs of socks and food for 300 people and toys. Imagine how many hot boots and how much clothes and food could be bought for a total of 44.8 million. kr., which Denmark has granted in emergency aid to the Greek authorities for the unaccompanied refugee and migrant children. Today there are 2,500 children in the new camps. There is little record of the children of the camps, so it is not known exactly how many are unaccompanied. Some have moved to the mainland, but their fate is uncertain and not necessarily better. There are many chronically ill children, autistic children, blind children, children with diabetes and asthma and infections they cannot keep clean. They are traumatized children who live in distress and need urgent help and a safe home. According to the EU's migration secretary, a total of 13 EU countries have joined forces to receive the unaccompanied children and evacuate them from Lesbos, including unaccompanied refugee children from the other camps in the other Greek islands, to be distributed among the EU countries. The Danish Government has surprisingly not wanted to participate in this cooperation. Despite the government's resolute no to help the children in need, 14 Danish municipalities have decided to help the children if they obtain asylum in Denmark, most recently the Social Democratic led Frederikshavn Municipality. Over 50 voluntary Danish foster families have volunteered to receive refugee children from Lesbos. In spite of the government's unwillingness, ordinary Danish families are ready to accept the children if they can obtain asylum in Denmark. There are among the many Danes who want to help the children, both house room and heart room, and the help is a completely voluntary offer. We are on the verge of a violent humanitarian disaster in our own European backyard, which we, one of the richest countries in the world, can no longer ignore: a man-made but inhuman chaos, to which we cannot afford to donate inappropriate and useless material and not make sure that the aid gets there properly. It is unworthy and is very distant from Denmark's long tradition of helping people in need. So, in the name of humanity, I therefore call on the government to join the European cooperation on the redistribution of the children of the camp, as 13 of our EU neighbouring countries have already done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230200	You're welcome, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no brief comments. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Development Cooperation, if he wishes. He doesn't, I see. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is then given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230225	I would like to start by thanking you for one, I think, good debate on an important and relevant subject. It's a little late at night, but I actually think there's been a spirit from start to finish, and that's the most important thing. I also think that there has been a sincere desire for Danish and European asylum policy to begin to move a little out of place; that the asylum system is basically dysfunctional, I actually find that there is a fairly broad recognition and consensus in the Folketing. That is one of the things I think we can derive from today's debate. I also believe that we can conclude that the fire in the Moria camp has led to the emergence of a very special and urgent situation in Greece, which has called for action on our part, and I also hear a fairly broad recognition that the two times more than 20 million. kr., Denmark has decided to contribute, has been a real decision. I also believe that, to some extent, we can agree, as I mentioned earlier, that the current European asylum system does not contain any viable solutions to prevent more situations such as the one we are currently experiencing in the Greek islands from arising in the future. If I listen a little bit to what the various rapporteurs have said, then I also think it can be concluded that when something does not work politically, that when some legislation we have does not work at Danish or European level, the Danish political parties are fortunately beginning to think in solutions fortunately. There is so little difference when one hears a little bit about in the Chamber. Enhedslisten says: We must have more refugees here to Denmark • It is part of the solution to the challenges we face. More people need family reunification, more money needs to be spent on development aid. The Left says: No, thank you, we still have major integration challenges and we should not receive more refugees, for example. through the quota refugee system, or redistribute asylum seekers from the Greek islands. The Danish People's Party says: It should not be possible to apply for spontaneous asylum in Denmark at all. SF says: yes, we need a thorough reform of the entire asylum system, but we cannot wait for that. Until then, Denmark should open its doors to unaccompanied minors seeking asylum, for example. from the Moria camp. Finally, Free Greens say: Well there are 14 municipalities and 50 foster families in Denmark who want to take on greater responsibility in the field of integration and who are ready if only the government decides to open the doors. In this way, I actually interpret today's debate as meaning that there is a broad recognition that the status quo is not sustainable, that there is a need for new ideas in the area of asylum. From the very beginning, the government's proposal has been that we should do everything we can to reorganise Danish asylum policy in a way in which it is not possible to deal with your asylum application while you are staying in Denmark, but that you should have your asylum application examined while you are outside Europe, precisely because it could discourage the use of traffickers. We would be able to ensure that those people who actually need protection are those on whom we are using resources and we would be able to go much further. We could have more humanism for the money, as the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned. We are fully aware that this is a very ambitious plan, but the more we think about it, the more we work on it, the more I think it is the only long-lasting solution to the challenges we face. If we do not really turn the asylum policy on our head, I fear that we will continue to engage in persistently fragmented discussions in this case about a specific Greek island. It might just as well have been a concrete discussion about the situation in Yemen or in Bangladesh or in Lebanon or in Ethiopia or in Rwanda or anywhere else where, unfortunately, millions of people need protection. Every year, the UN assesses how many refugees and internally displaced persons there are, and I think that the last figure I heard was 80 million. When I started as rapporteur for foreigners, it was 63 million, so unfortunately it is going quite fast in the wrong direction. I fully recognise that there are some people on the Greek islands who are in an extremely difficult and challenging situation, but I do not think the solution is that we zoom in on a single problem and then believe that we can solve it by starting to redistribute them to other European countries. I really believe that it is shooting oneself in the foot and a very short-term solution. That is why I am also glad that it seems that there is a fairly broad majority in the Danish Parliament that agrees with it, and I also interpret that as a support for us to continue to focus on the fact that the primary way to help refugees is not in the process of writing residence permits for Denmark. This is primarily by helping close to the conflicts. On the other hand, we must also improve on this, and it is also the Government's ambition that a greater share of development aid should be spent on helping refugees. We took the first step with the Finance Act applicable this year, namely 2020, and we have further ambitions to move a greater share of development aid towards aid for refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230839	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230846	Thank you for that and thank you for a good and real collection of the debate. But when we see that children are needy in burnt-down camps with poor access to food and without mother and father, what more is needed to ensure that the government thinks that some of these children, who are currently among the most vulnerable children in Europe, should be welcomed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201230919	If there were 300 children in the world who had great, great problems and needed a safe harbor, I am sure that in just a few seconds Europe would be able to find suitable foster families for them and could write a residence permit, find a school they could go to, get them started on their lives and provide them with the psychological help needed if they had been through some traumatic experiences. I'm absolutely sure of it. But there aren't 300 children. There aren't even 3,000 children. There's not even 30,000. There are more than 3 million children in this situation, and that is why, as politicians, we also have to consider that the solutions we are presenting must be objectively justified: why is it precisely the children who must have written a residence permit rather than everyone else? And if we take exactly the 300 children, what about the next time there is a question debate on 300 children in Rwanda, Bangladesh, Honduras or Ethiopia? Unfortunately, there are 300 children in many places, and that is why I believe that we also have a responsibility to just stop and consider with ourselves how to help as much as possible. Our assessment is: the restructuring of development policy, strict immigration policy and quota refugees. That is the way we think we can help most people. And I do not really think that such a debate as today reveals convincing arguments as to why more humanism can be achieved by setting it up in a different way, for example. by using the resettlement of people who do not even have a guaranteed need for protection as the focal point of our refugee policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231103	Fortunately, it is not millions of children we are talking about in Moria, but in the vicinity of 4,000. And I think it is rather striking that in today's debate there have been three excuses from the government and the Socialists for not helping and welcoming some of these children, and it has been what about, what about and what about. So, if we now started by saying that there are some very vulnerable people in Moria in Europe who are currently the most vulnerable, and with all the conditions described, what more does the Minister think these children should be exposed to, so that Denmark takes care of them and accepts some of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231146	Well, we don't think these kids should be exposed to anything. They are staying in an EU country that has joined all the international conventions that are relevant in this area. They have the opportunity to seek asylum, their asylum case will be dealt with and, to the extent that they need protection, they will be protected. We believe that the challenge is that there are 80 million refugees and displaced persons who are close to conflicts and who are in a very serious situation, and we must help as many as possible with the modest budgets we have in Denmark. That is our task. The more we resettle here, which we don't even know about having any protection needs, the fewer we can help out in the world. We are not interested in pursuing a policy in which we can help the fewest possible people; we are interested in pursuing a policy in which we can help as many people as possible. Every single person who goes to Denmark and seeks asylum costs thousands of kroner a lot of money. 1 year accommodation in the asylum system is DKK 300,000. They can then be used much better in all kinds of other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231252	First time you ask and answer, you have 1 minute, second time 1⁄2 minute. Now the night's almost gone, so it's more for another time. The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231304	Thank you. The minister says there's a consensus on changing the system. I think there is, too. I am not sure that we agree on what that system should look like, but we agree that it does not work as it is today. Something that is very clear to me, to use the Minister's own words, is that we do not get the most humanism for the money by letting 13 000 people live on the streets of Lesbos. We simply do not. And I do not believe that the children we have been discussing all evening here have time to wait for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and his EU colleagues to agree on a new asylum system. So it is not most humanism for the money, so I would like to ask the Minister: how long before this new system comes so that these children can get roofs over their heads?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231400	If these children seek asylum in Greece, it is the responsibility of the Greek authorities to examine the application for asylum, and if they need protection, it is the responsibility of the Greek authorities to ensure that they receive a residence permit and a life in Greece. It has nothing to do with Danish politics. After all, it is not a decision that has been made in this Chamber or by this government that means that there are children living on the streets of Greece. It would be equally relevant to say: why does the government not ensure that children do not live on the streets of Tanzania or Bolivia or in New York? I'm afraid there's kids on the street all over the world, but it's not this government's fault, it's not this Parliament's fault. Our task is to ensure: how can we help most of the resources we now have at our disposal to the best possible extent in the world? And there we just say: for every single person who lands at Kastrup airport and needs a residence permit in Denmark, for every single person who stands on the Danish-German border and says asylum, we can help fewer people out in the world. The fewer people we help here, the more people you can help in real life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231509	That is simply not correct, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It is not the case that because we have closed the borders in Denmark, we have raised development aid. It is true that it is not the fault of the Danish government that I would like to admit that the refugee camp at Lesbos has been burned. But what we can decide in this parliament hall, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, is to bring 300 children and their families to Denmark and grant them asylum. We can decide that in this floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231542	That's right. There is an economic link between how many people seek asylum in Denmark and how many we can help out in the world. The more asylum seekers here and the greater the proportion of development aid spent on asylum treatment in Denmark and accommodation in Denmark, the less we can help out in the real world. In fact, if you sit down and look at the economy in this, you can get a complete stomachache every time someone seeks asylum in Denmark. Because it means a drain of the money we can spend much better in the world. If you're going to put it a little square, I'm the worst refugee minister you can get. The best refugee minister you can get is down here. He can help many more in development policy than we can help in the asylum centre system and with subsequent residence permits. Humanism sits there, the terrible thing in refugee policy is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231632	I would remind the Minister that there is such a red, beating heart in front of the Minister, and when the figures are 0.00, there is no more speaking time. Sikandar Siddique wishes to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231648	We've been hearing all night that it doesn't really help if we do something for these 300 kids. It helps these 300 kids. And the argument for those parties that have not wanted to support our question today has often been that we need to create a system so that refugees can search the neighbourhoods. Well this is happening in our backyard; it's something we can fix with a fingertips with a fingertips but I can assure the Minister that the Free Greens, Enhedslisten, SF and Radical Left will continue to put pressure on the government so that we can get these children to safety. But quite specifically, I would like to ask one thing so that we can get something out of that question debate tonight for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund did not answer the question: will the government at least ensure that we get isolated housing containers for Lesbos so that people do not freeze to death in the winter? Can we actually agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231802	To conclude, I do not know what the Greek Government is actually spending the money on. But I'm quite sure that if mr. Sikandar Siddique asks a written question, either I, the Minister for Development or the Minister for Defence are very happy to follow it up. But our basic principle is: we do not arrive from Denmark with a lot of gifts that we think are right; it is the Greek Government that defines what they think is needed. And then we support them in dealing with the very difficult situation they face. I think we would feel the same way if we were in a difficult situation: that we would like to be allowed to define what is the task and the challenges ourselves. And then others must support it if they want it to be. But then I'll say to the first, sir. Sikandar Siddique says, whether it helps if you take 300 children: Yes, because the 300 children help it then; they will then have a better life in Brønderslev than they have in the Moria camp. I totally agree with that. What we have to deal with as a parliament is: can we look the Danes in the eye and say that we have helped as many refugees as possible for the money, when we know that a large part of these people have no need of protection at all? Can we do that? I do not think it is fair and politics is about justice. I think it would be unfair to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201231922	Then the Mayor of Social Democracy in Frederikshavn does not agree with the Minister for Integration of Social Democracy, because they want to help these children. I hear what the minister says. I'm going to ask written questions, and I'm going to pursue the case. Now I understand from the President that the Minister for Development is not coming up here, and that is why we cannot ask questions to the Minister for Development. However, I am going to ask specific questions about isolated residential containers so that we can ensure very quickly and easily that people and children do not freeze to death. So I say yes to the request and clarify written questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201232007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201232008	Thank you. And if a quick question is asked, we must, of course, do everything we can to get it answered quickly. Because I can also understand that there is an urgent time frame in relation to dealing with these issues. We'll do that. I would also like to say that, as I read the representations from the municipal councils which have dealt with this subject in the municipal council, they have a desire to help to the extent that there are refugees in need of protection. However, I would just like to appeal again to remember that the majority of people who come to Europe and seek asylum are refused when they seek asylum. The majority of the people you watch on television in the rubber boats are not refugees in a convention sense; they are migrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201232052	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I have received three proposals for adoption and, as I said, they will be put to the vote on Thursday, the next Thursday. And just to correct a misunderstanding: it is not the case that the President decides which of the ministers is going to come up. Both ministers have access to pick up the debate, and it is tradition that we therefore allow room for both ministers, but if a minister resigns, it is the Minister's choice. We also usually allow the rapporteur for the questions to round off and conclude the debate if requested, but it is now and from there. There's no wish for that. Since no one else has asked to speak either, the debate has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201201232143	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for the long day in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 2 December 2020 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
