ParlaMint-DK_20201110130018	The meeting is open. I would ask Members of this House to keep their distance. There's plenty of room for us to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130032	I shall begin by giving the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130042	Thank you. I hope, of course, that the party leaders will also be able to come forward. The Corona is seriously back, the infection rates at home are high, but relatively stable. 1.066 has been tested positive since yesterday. We are following the situation very closely. Right now, of course, our main concern is the mink situation. The government is acting on a very clear risk assessment from the health authorities, and we are doing everything we can to contain the mutated virus. Today I would like to thank the mink growers in particular for the incredibly responsible way in which you take this, and also a special thanks to the Northern Jutlanders who are currently undertaking a great task for the whole of Denmark. The killing of minks in the seven municipalities in North Jutland is fast. I would like to reiterate my great sympathy and that of the government for all of you and all of those who are in a difficult situation because, unfortunately, the animals have to be put to death. The whole of Denmark is sorry about the situation. At the same time, I regret the progress of the legislative process with regard to the Folketing and also with regard to the mink growers. The Minister for Food has done the same this morning. Although there is a lot of work to be done, it goes without saying that it must be absolutely clear what requires new legislation. It has not been, and I would like to regret that. And the Minister for Food will now give a thorough account of the progress made with the Danish Parliament. In the spring we taught Danes that health needs to be controlled so that the economy can also be controlled. We did well compared to the rest of the world. However, because of the fierce second wave we are seeing now in the area of covid-19, many countries are once again closing down and the European Union is now predicting that Europe's economic recovery will take longer than expected. And where the economic wise men back home a few weeks ago presented a relatively optimistic forecast for the Danish economy, the wise man now leans towards a more gloomy view of the economy. For Danish exports and the 800,000 Danish jobs linked to exports, it is also important that we continue to act decisively and quickly in Denmark. In addition, new initiatives are still needed in the economy, and that is why yesterday the government proposed a new export package and a strengthening of the housing job scheme, so that we again do more to stimulate the economy at home. In general, it is the government's main priority to keep the corona going and keep society going in a way that at the same time invests out of the crisis and transforms the economy, so that we make Denmark more green and ready for the future that awaits. We look forward to negotiating this with the Danish Parliament's parties. Today it is an extended Question Time with the North Atlantic mandates, and a special welcome to Magnus Rasmussen. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have for the time being kept the infection under control. That's impressive. Another encouraging news from the north came out last week when Greenland and Denmark entered into an agreement with the United States on the service contract at Thulebasen. Congratulations to Greenland, and of course also a special congratulations to my good colleague Kim Kielsen. In relation to the United States, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Joe Biden on his election as the next President of the United States. We in Denmark must continue to strengthen our cooperation with the United States in a number of important areas. This applies not least to security, but also to trade, the Arctic, climate and global efforts to combat the corona. I look forward to working with Joe Biden in the coming years. Finally, I would like to express my deep sympathy to France and Austria on top of the horrific terrorist attacks that have struck both countries. It is dark men who are making terrible attacks and thereby trying to undermine our values and our social model. But they won't succeed. The totalitarian and unfree will fall; enlightenment and freedom are stronger than darkness. We're gonna win, and we are gonna win. And I hope for the support of the whole parliament for these words: an attack on France and an attack on Austria is an attack on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130520	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed with questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130546	Thank you very much. We are open for business, but we are not for sale. So clearly the answer of the Greenland Government, Naala Suisut, was just over a year ago. There have now been elections in the United States and a new President has been elected, who will be joining us in the new year, and this gives many of us new hopes, particularly in relation to increased international cooperation on climate change. IA also wants Greenland to accede to the Paris Agreement, and it wants 63 per cent. of the people of Greenland as well. A new president also gives hope of low-voltage in the Arctic. It's all good tactics for us living in the Arctic. At this time, we are all concerned about the fight against corona and we are concerned about the developments that are taking place. We also share the concern in Greenland, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister, together with the governments of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, for leading the Kingdom community safely and safely through this global crisis so far. We also know that Greenland is a unique travel destination and actually comes more than 50 per cent. of all our tourists from Denmark, and for most it is an experience for life. Greenland has a unique nature, and tourists are greeted with a warmth and warmth in Greenland. The Greenlandic tourist industry, like the Danish one, is hit very hard by the corona crisis. Greenland's business makes an emergency call for a bleeding tourism, and increased tourism does not naturally come with the new airports, but we must create a breeding ground for that. The Growth Fund and Greenland Venture are looking at new and absolutely necessary investments in relation to new offers and a higher level of service compared to the tourism industry in Greenland. The Danish Government has with a billion grant and loan shares shares in the new airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat, and Denmark has thus contributed significantly to the infrastructure and an increase in tourism in Greenland Against this background, I should like to ask whether the Prime Minister is generally in favour of increased cooperation to increase tourism in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130759	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130800	Thank you for the question. It's actually a little bit hard to hear the questions being asked in here today because of the noise, so if we look a little strained towards each other, it's mostly because of a noise outside. I would like to thank you for your question and say that we have very, very close cooperation in dealing with the Covid-19 in and across the Kingdom community, and we are fully aware of the vulnerabilities that exist, not least in the outermost regions of the Kingdom community, and we need that cooperation to continue. But as I said before, it is simply impressive how talented you have been both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands to contain the infection. The tourism industry is also bleeding in the Kingdom community, and it is a very, very important part of Greenland's development to be able to have sources of income from various sources, including tourism. That is why it can hit particularly hard, and we would always like to be involved in even closer cooperation. I have no doubt that part of the tourism that will be sought after in the future is exactly what Greenland can deliver, namely access to nature and indeed some truly unique and magnificent experiences you cannot find anywhere else in the world. So I think Greenland has the time for tourism, but here and now there are some major challenges, and of course we must be in close dialogue with each other about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130923	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110130925	Thank you very much. Before corona tourism was globally the most growing industry; it is of course interesting. In Greenland we also have visions of expanding to full-year tourism and raising our skills. Visit Greenland has done a good job in strengthening the branding and marketing of Greenland, but this is an area that we need to be aware of in the near future, particularly in relation to airports. Preparation and branding are very important because we are going to be in a tough competition. When the world opens up after corona, it will take time to get tourism up to the same level as it was before corona. There will be a global competition for the attention of tourists, and the Nordic Region and the rest of the world are already preparing. Therefore, there is no doubt about the need to prepare a large-scale branding campaign by Greenland in order to have the full effect and currency in relation to the new runways, which are scheduled to be ready in Greenland in 2023. Is this something on which the government can envisage a very concrete cooperation with Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131033	As a starting point, we never reject cooperation in the Kingdom Community, and I think that what is at the root of the issue here is true, that the branding of future tourism is crucial, and I therefore believe that Greenland has a great many opportunities. For the combination of what many people are looking for, namely access to nature and the calm that is there, but also the fantastic number of opportunities there are, combined with being one of the countries in the world that has coped with the covid-19 alleral best, is really a fantastic start when tourism gets back on track. The question then is when that tourism will resume, because right now we are seeing an explosion in infection in large parts of the world, not least, unfortunately, on our own continent, where Europe is, after all, the epicenter of covid-19. So there's going to be a delay on this, but I definitely think it's interesting to have a talk across how we make sure we're ready in the Kingdom Community when the opportunity to travel again opens up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131137	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131138	Thank you very much for your answer. After all, the government has posted billions in aid packages. Same thing has Naala Suisut. I very much support the aid packages and the community that in reality lies in ensuring that there is also an industry after corona. In Greenland, we have more and more small entrepreneurs in tourism, all of whom are helping to strengthen tourism in Greenland. Many companies have also planned investments and expansions, but we know that they are really under pressure in these years. In the long run, tourism also really strengthens Greenland's economy, as the Prime Minister himself said, but right now we are experiencing a very challenging time, and together we believe that there is an interest in taking care of healthy businesses in the tourist industry, including in Greenland. So if there were to be a need for access to Danish aid packages, would that be something that would be met in Greenland with a kindness in relation to? Finally, I would like to thank you for your answers, and I wish you every success in the further handling of the Corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131240	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131241	Thank you for that, and good luck will be needed. Because although we in Denmark again seem to be ahead of the development of the restrictions that have been withdrawn at national level, we are currently seeing a stabilization of the levels of infection at home, unlike many other European countries. So, although we can do a lot with decisions, we are happy to accept good luck. We are in the middle of a global pandemic, and this is the biggest crisis in Denmark since World War II. As I said, we would very much like to discuss with Greenland whether we can help each other in relation to tourism. After all, Denmark has a very, very great interest in the whole Kingdom community getting through this and that some money is also being made on the other side of what we are in right now. So thank you for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131337	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Magnus Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131348	Thank you, President. This is the first time I have been in this position, and I am very happy to have that opportunity, and because I do not know if I will have it again, I will deal with various subjects today. I'd like to start with the Danish CPR number for cousins. I would like to congratulate and thank the government for the positive approach it has taken to assign the birther CPR number. It has been a strong wish of the Samband Party for many years, and therefore I am glad that at last there has been a goodwill to do so, both from Faroese and Danish sides, and that the bill was first dealt with on Friday last week. Thank you. This is a major step along the way, and it will make it considerably easier for, among others. students and Faroese patients who are going to stay in Denmark for a short or long time. However, for the CPR number to be really useful, it must be supplemented with a NemID, and here a challenge will arise the first time. After all, NemID will be replaced by MitID sometime during 2021, and as we all know from experience, new digital systems tend to be delayed. The comments to the bill under consideration state that NemID will not be handed over to the Faroese with the new CPR number until MitID has been implemented. This leaves a gap of about a year where the Faroese cannot actually use their Danish CPR number. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: is the government willing to find a solution to the problem for these forefathers who, during the transition phase from NemID to MitID, will fall between two chairs as it now seems?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131545	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131547	Thank you for that question. I would also like to sign for a really, really close and good cooperation in this area. When I last had the opportunity to be in the Faroe Islands, it was one of the subjects that the lagman took up, and I know how important it is to really, very many Faroeses. It will facilitate the arrival of travel activities to Denmark and also in relation to return, and it may apply to students, but also, as is said, be in connection with illness courses and other things. So it would be very good for the Kingdom community that we are soon in line with a solution here. In this context, we chose to have a group of our officials working together across the board in relation to the CPR number, because, in addition to politics, there is some technique and some internship on this issue. I am not quite aware of, I must be honest to say where we are right now in the cooperation on NemID, but I would like to go back and investigate that. I can say that what is in Denmark's interest in relation to the Kingdom Community is that we do it as well as possible and as easily as possible for our fellow citizens in the Kingdom Community in terms of being able to travel, and that the border barriers that may be left over in connection with covid-19, because it is like a case for itself being broken down. So I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131711	Sir. Magnus Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131713	Thank you for your goodwill. A year may mean a lot to those who need it, so I am glad that the government will look at it and make an attempt to solve that issue. I would like to move a little further into the world, namely to the North. The Faroe Islands have been a member of the Nordic Council since 1970 as a self-governing area and therefore not a full member. A unanimous Latting has agreed several times that the Faroe Islands should work on full membership, and therefore several in the national government have asked the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers to fulfil that wish. There is now an application on the table in the Council, which will hopefully be discussed next year. And let it be clear that, of course, all financial obligations arising from membership must be carried out by the Faroese Home Rule Government and not by Denmark. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister support the Faroese application for full membership of the Nordic Council, which will probably require a new interpretation or amendment of the Helsinki Agreement? And does the Prime Minister not agree with me that we must always try to find solutions within the framework of the Kingdom Community, including at the foreign policy level, for which the Nordic Council is an example?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131835	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131837	Yes, I agree with that, and that is what has happened to this government in relation to the continued development of the Kingdom community, namely that we have a constitution which is the premise and foundation of our Kingdom community and of our cooperation, and of course it must be respected, it must be respected in all its contexts. Then we have a community of kingdoms, which is not a static size, but which develops, and which, it must be said, over the years and not least the decades, also changes the character of the world, the nature of the Arctic, and the kingdom community must also be able to do so. So we are always willing to go as far as we can, also in terms of foreign policy, but within the framework of the constitution. The discussion on the Nordic Council dates back quite many years. We have just had a meeting in the Nordic Council, virtually because of the circumstances, and I know that it means a lot to the Faroe Islands because it is a Nordic framework that can be used for many different things. The precise position in the future is something that we have a dialogue on consecutively, but we recognise the importance of the Nordics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131954	Sir. Magnus Rasmussen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110131957	Thank you for your answer. I think it is important that, within the framework of the Kingdom Community, we find solutions that respond to the Faroese desire for a larger foreign policy elbow. From the Nordic countries we travel a little further into the world, namely to the EU, with which the Faroe Islands have a strong desire to conclude a new trade agreement. Here too, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his support and the government's support for the Faroese Home Rule Government's desire for renewed cooperation with the European Union. As the Prime Minister knows, the area of trade is a matter which is taken over, where competence lies in the Faroe Islands. So, in order to avoid any misunderstandings among the Faroese people, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she can confirm that when we reach a negotiating situation with the European Union, it is a Faroese delegation that is negotiating a new trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and the European Union, and therefore not a Danish delegation that is negotiating on behalf of the Faroe Islands. Denmark's role, on the other hand, will be to support and support the Faroese Government in the process itself. And can we make it clear once and for all that the Faroe Islands themselves have whom we trade and export our goods to, but that Denmark and the Faroe Islands together have some security policy concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132117	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132119	I repeat, it may actually be a little difficult to hear the questions because of the noise from outside. I hope I got all the words in it. It is quite true that there is a dialogue with the European Commission in relation to the continuing cooperation between the European Union and the Faroe Islands, and it is of course a work in which we are very much involved, and my experience is that we have a good working relationship between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. I would assume that it is the case that, when a result is, hopefully, negotiated, then there will subsequently be a legal assessment of how that agreement is to be anchored parliamentaryly and politically. So I think we should take it in the order that a result must now be negotiated first, and then there is the legal clarification afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132215	Thank you, sir. Magnus Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132221	Thank you. I'm gonna shoot a little dispersal, too. In order not always to wade in the same thing, I wrote out the other day on my facebook page and asked if anyone had any ideas about what to ask the Prime Minister. I had a lot of wishes, and some of the questions I have already raised, others of them I will take up in a different context, but one of them I will put here now. The question is from a young woman who writes to me that she wants to ask about equality. I can begin by saying that the premise for her question is certainly not wrong. I did a study the other day which showed that the lack of equality in the Faroe Islands is enormous. There is a very large difference between men and women in terms of power, influence and property. One comes to think of Plato's words that a state that only trains men up to being leaders is like an athlete who only trains his right arm, and that the Faroe Islands have an overly untrained left arm, I myself am reminded of every time I come into my office in this house, where I have pictures of all Faroese country and parliament members hanging there is one female face. But at least now there is a woman who, albeit indirectly, asks a question to the Prime Minister. It sounds like this: There are elections in the United States on Tuesday it was then last Tuesday when the Question Time was cancelled and it will probably result in the United States getting the first female vice president and perhaps later the first female president. The Prime Minister himself is a woman; she is one of several female party presidents in Denmark • in the Faroe Islands we are far from that situation. Can you not ask the Prime Minister how she will summarize the relatively good Danish experiences in terms of equality? Is this about legislation, social systems or cultural struggle? And what advice does she have for those who fight for greater equality in the Faroe Islands? The question has been passed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132414	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132416	Thank you for that question. The fight for equality goes across borders, because that is a way of thinking which should be able to permeate both our decisions, the legislation we have in the respective countries and the way we work together. At the same time, it is also important for me to say that a very, very large part of the area of equality is, after all, repatriated areas which are to be regarded as Faroese matters, and there we have a proud tradition in the Kingdom community that what we are working on is what we have to solve together, and we have the opposite respect for the fact that there can be differences between countries in a number of different areas. So I respect that division of labour in this context too. But for example... The elections in the United States, where you get the first female vice president of the world's most powerful and most important country on the security scene, will hopefully mean to all girls who grow up in these years that they can see that you can actually go all the way if you have the skills and the will.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132533	Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132533-2	Thank you. There is also an election today that is not as important as the American presidential election, because it is the local elections in the Faroe Islands, but now we have to see how it is going to play out. The Prime Minister spoke in his introduction about what happened in France, and that is deeply, deeply unhappy. But it is also frightening that there are also Islamists in Denmark, that there are also people in Denmark who are radicalised and who preach holy war in Denmark. That is why I believe that the government is fully entitled to do everything it can to combat the hatred and the desire for destruction that is being preached in mosques around, and that is why it has announced a law that will decide that all sermons in Denmark, which are not in Danish, should be translated into Danish. I don't know how much it will help, but of course I respect the government's right to do what it can. My problem is that one of the languages which is preached in Denmark and which is not Danish is Faroese. There are a number of Faroese churches and congregations that have worked in Denmark for decades. Can the Prime Minister promise that we will not end up in the quite grotesque situation, that Faroese congregations who have been here for decades will translate their sermons because they suspect terror?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132658	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132659	No, I cannot actually promise that, because although I have every respect and sympathy for preaching in Faroese in Denmark, I have never known any problems in this regard; there have not been problems in the past with religions coming from outside, even if other languages have been preached. Where we have the problem in Denmark now is Islamist terror, it is radicalised Islamism, which in turn is responsible for someone being killed on European soil. I am glad that that part of my speech is also being responded to, and I sincerely hope that in the Folketing there will also be a receipt for what I said in conclusion, namely that an attack on Austria and an attack on France are an attack on Denmark and on our common European values and way of life. We know that we have sometimes been preached with hate speech in mosques in Denmark, and we have to do everything we can to combat that, and that is why I cannot stand here today and give guarantees as to exactly where this effort ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132811	Sjúrður Skaale for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132814	If it is so that Faroese congregations and churches have to translate their sermons because they are under suspicion of something, then it is certainly a matter that I will pursue as long as I can. I think it's quite grotesque. The third question concerns the radar to be deployed in the Faroe Islands. Many people are nervous about this, for there have not been military installations in the Faroe Islands for many years. Many are afraid of being directly involved in a military conflict, and many remember the history of the Cold War, where the Faroese authorities became bypassed. Personally, I support the idea of setting up a radar on the Faroe Islands. We need to protect Western values these days, but we cannot defend Western values by ignoring Western values. The Faroese authorities must be fully involved in what has to happen if that is to happen. The final question is therefore: can the Prime Minister guarantee that the military installations which are now being set up in the Faroe Islands will not be installed until the democratic assembly of the Faroe Islands has approved them?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132915	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110132917	Of course, there is and must be a very close cooperation on defence and security policy in and around the Arctic and in and around the Kingdom community. That dialogue is already there and it has been there for a long time, and we are, in fact, strengthening it during this period. Then I would like to return to the second question. For me, we have never had problems in Denmark with the Catholic Church, with the French Church, with the Norwegian Church, with the Jewish minority or other minor religions that have come to Denmark from outside, and where one has used one's constitutional right to cultivate one's own god and religion while one is in Denmark, but we have a problem with extreme Islamism, and we also have that in Denmark. And some of the problems we are experiencing are linked and linked to some of what has happened in and around mosques. That is why it is a matter of attention. It was for the previous government, for the previous government, and it is for this government too. And that's why I can't give you an assurance today where we're gonna land exactly on this. For the fact that you stand on a Friday at a Friday prayer in Denmark and speak hatefully about Jews or homosexuals or against Denmark, we cannot and should not accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133029	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133036	Thank you for that, President. The Prime Minister is sorry. The Prime Minister regrets that the government, the Prime Minister, issued an illegal order. An illegal order that healthy mink crews in Denmark should be defeated. An order for which there was no legal basis, an order for which there was no compensation, an order which was not intended to replace the decision-making basis. I think it is quite appalling that we should be dealing with the Basic Law of the Danish Empire as laxly as is the case here. I find it appalling that there is no greater thoroughness when it comes to the work of human life. This is about families who get everything taken away. It's about families watching their world fall apart. We have seen them on television over the last few days: we have seen great strong men standing and crying on TV watching their life's work crumble, seeing that what they inherited from their parents and grandparents is now disappearing and that they themselves are going to help kill it. We have not seen the government answer what is actually behind it. The government didn't want to run, and the Prime Minister has to do that now, so thank you for that. There have been many different explanations of what the justification was for violating the Constitution. I think the Minister for Food has made a three or four different points in the last three or four days. And of course that is also very interesting, but we will probably not get a clearer answer from that. So what I really want a very clear answer to is: when did the Prime Minister know that the order given by the Prime Minister on Wednesday was illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133229	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133230	It is quite true that there has been an error in the decision taken by the government last week and the associated press conference. It has subsequently turned out that there is no legal basis for imposing the death of those minks who are not yet ill with covid-19. This will be brought to the attention of the Prime Minister's Office this weekend, and contact will then be made with the Danish Parliament's parties. It's I said at the beginning of the process about the covid-19 that we would make mistakes. It should then turn out that we made a mistake last week. We regret that. It does not change the substance of this: this is about health, and it is about public health, it is about the risk that we in Denmark may unfortunately undermine a future vaccine. And it is about seeing a mutated virus via mink, which has also infected, in my view, too many Danes, not least in North Jutland. The mistake has been made, we regret it, and now we hope that we can agree on what is to be agreed, namely that the legal basis will be put in place so that we can have what is necessary, namely that the mines are cut, that the industry is compensated, that the employees who are affected can move forward, and that we will thus make the necessary Danish contribution to continuing to control this epidemic at home and that we will not undermine a future vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133407	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133408	You made a mistake, you regret that, and it's human to fail. This premise that we have public health on the one hand and the rule of the people on the other is a false contradiction. The two things both can and must go hand in hand with a democracy and in this Chamber. Well, the thing about just saying, well, that was kind of just too bad isn't good enough. The Prime Minister gave an illegal order. The background to it, the content of it, is not relevant. The Prime Minister gave an illegal order. I simply do not have the imagination to believe that there is not a single person in the meeting room where this order has been discussed, which has pointed out that perhaps one should have a legal basis. The Prime Minister is a former Minister of Justice. It is quite incomprehensible, incomprehensible and unthinkable that the Prime Minister himself has not given it a thought along the way: perhaps we must have a legal basis before we kill an entire profession. I simply do not believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133516	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133517	There are two things to say about this. One is that the mistake has been made, and I am also in the Chamber today saying so. This is regrettable, but it does not change the substance or substance. We are not being made aware of the fact that there is no legal basis in the decisions we take. If we had been told, of course I would have said so at the next press conference held on Wednesday. And then I have to say that I do not agree with the President of the Left that the framework for this discussion is irrelevant. We're in the middle of a global pandemic. We face the huge challenge that part of the animals we have in Danish agriculture, namely the minks, are contagious people with covid-19, and that it may even be a mutated virus that can help undermine a future vaccine. It doesn't matter. Nor does it matter that the government makes a mistake. The government is sorry about that. But forward-looking, this doesn't change anything in terms of content and substance: unfortunately, we're going to have to knock down the mink so that the virus doesn't spread anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133626	Thank you. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133628	It was a very fine strawman that the Prime Minister presented there. I don't think anyone's claimed that this doesn't matter. However, I have just said that there is no contradiction between public health and the rule of the people, and I stand by that, and I really would like to keep the Prime Minister to that. But when a mistake has been made like the one that has been made here and the Prime Minister has issued an illegal order, does the Prime Minister agree with me that the Prime Minister is responsible for the illegal order given by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133703	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133705	There is no contradiction between popular government and public health, as we have shown in Denmark since March. The government was not aware that there was no legal basis for what was said in relation to healthy mink outside the risk zone. It is, of course, a mistake, and if we had known, we would have clearly communicated it on Wednesday. I would have held exactly the same press conference, but with an addition, namely that we would ask Parliament for urgent procedure. I have to ask: what interest should this government have in, if we were familiar with it, what we were not, keeping it hidden from the Folketing? It would come for a day in any case. What matters to this government is that we take care of the health and public health of the Danes, and that is why, unfortunately, we have to knock down the mink. That it then turns out that there is no legal basis for what is being communicated on Wednesday is a mistake, and the government must of course take that on board, but that does not change the content and substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133806	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110133814	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introductory remarks here. We stay on track, because we have to deal with the corona epidemic. It goes without saying, and there has been a lot of support from the whole parliament that we have done in recent months. However, the way we deal with such an epidemic is based on trust and cooperation, and the Danish Parliament has given the government historically great powers to deal with things, but it is also important for the Danish Parliament to know that it remains within the very large powers that have been given to it. And when you move outside those frames, it's crazy. And here we are talking about an area which also has something to do with the inviolability of ownership, which means that we are talking about provisions which are, after all, constitutionally established in our country. And it is clear that when you send out a letter, an e-mail, to all mink growers in Denmark, where you have written 31 times • as I think it has been mentioned that the figure was • you as a mink grower have no doubt that you have an obligation to follow what is written here. And you do so loyally; you start to kill your animals, including your breeding animals, so that you are about to quit your job. Then it is strange when you can read the Danish Minister for Food's written answer to several media on Sunday, where it says: "The government has estimated that in this serious situation we must act quickly. The government has therefore announced that all minks in the country must be killed for public health reasons. The government has decided that it was urgent, given the seriousness of the situation. That is why it has been estimated that new legislation could not be awaited before it was withdrawn. Then you have to know that you have lacked legislation, but you have thought that it was so urgent that you were willing to put it into effect with shell names 31 times to mink growers without having the legal basis in place. What's the PM's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134012	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134014	In our view, in relation to what has been communicated from the food authorities and from the Ministry of Food, it is quite natural that we initiate a statement so that the Danish Parliament and the rest of Denmark can know exactly what has happened. The government is not aware that there is no legal basis because we are making the decision last week. Of course, if we had been familiar with it, we would have said it quite openly and honestly. And it goes without saying that during a global epidemic there may be a need to make decisions quickly; it has been the lead of this government all the way through. The situation may arise again, and therefore there may also be a situation where there is no legal basis for what is necessary and where we will then start something, ask that people do something in a certain way, and then get the necessary legal basis. But that must of course be perfectly clear if that is the case. We have had similar situations where this is exactly how it happened. And just to stress it again: there is a mistake about the lack of legal basis that is a regrettable error. This does not alter the fact that we are in a situation where, unfortunately, Danish mink will have to be killed because there is a real and high risk not only of the Danes' health and public health at home, but also potentially of public health globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134144	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134146	The problem with what I'm reading here is that it's an admission it's a self-acknowledgment. Well, it's not even in connection with a question, and it's not said to a journalist it's a written answer that the Minister of Food gave to various media on Sunday to explain what this is all about. And you've been very careful about that, because we know that when you make a written answer instead of running for an interview, it's because you have to be absolutely sure what you're writing, and then you write: "Therefore, because of the urgency of the matter, you've estimated that you couldn't wait for new legislation before you reported it out. Then you've been aware when you announced that you didn't have the legislation in place. How can the Prime Minister have a minister sitting, who openly acknowledges that one has reacted without having the legal basis for doing something as intrusive as what we are talking about here? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134237	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134238	I am not aware of the reasons for the precise wording. What I can explain is what is known to the government when the government makes the decision. And it is not that there is no legal basis for all mink in Denmark to be killed. I also have to appeal to the fact that the mistake has been made that, hopefully, there is support in the Danish Parliament for the work that is necessary on the mink farms to be continued. Because this work is important and it is crucial, and I hardly have the imagination to imagine that parties in the Folketing can ignore the risk assessment underlying these decisions by the authorities. So there's been a mistake. It's regrettable to the government. But I would strongly appeal in the name of public health that work can continue out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134332	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134333	You can be in doubt about who the government really is. The Prime Minister uses the term that the government was not familiar with, but so, it was the Minister of Food. In relation to what I am reading here, he was aware that the legislation was not in place, but it was impossible to wait for new legislation before it was withdrawn. So on Fridays, you send this e-mail to all the minkkeepers, and I think the word should be mentioned, as I say, 31 times, among other things. also when it comes to mink farms outside the zones; it is where no infection has been detected; it is outside this safety radius of 7.8 km. When you get beyond it, the minks must also be knocked down, and it is quite clear: the killing of all minks (including breeding animals) must be over by 16 November 2020. This is a violation of private property, and if you don't have a legal basis for it, you can't do it. And if you even know that you don't have a legal basis for it, and that's what the Minister of Food openly acknowledges... then you're committing one of the major violations of law in Denmark. That is not allowed as a minister, and the Folketing cannot ignore that. I must appeal to the majority to be able to put this government in place. Now we have been discussing for months the willfulness of this government in the Corona situation, and this is going too far. I think it's time for the Danish Parliament to become a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134452	Then it's the PM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134454	I think we have to separate things, because it goes without saying that in a democracy and for every government the laws of the country must be respected. Here there has been an error in the fact that the necessary level of legal base was not present for the complete decision, and that is a regrettable error. That does not change the substance, and I have to appeal to all parties in the Folketing also to the situation we are in now. There is a real and serious risk to public health. That's why we're discussing mink. That's why, unfortunately, we're gonna have to put the mines down. That work will have to continue and the Folketing will have to be able to decide on the necessary compensation for the people affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134542	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134551	Thank you. It is my first questioning lesson as a political leader, and I had been looking forward to asking a lot of questions about everything I want to do, but fortunately, the world and reality do not care about that, and it should be. It is a serious day and a serious situation that we are in. I and the Radical Left, and fortunately I hear that too, the Prime Minister will say that she will always stand firm that law is law and that law must be kept. It is absolutely fundamental in a rule of law that the authorities cannot intervene in the lives and activities of the citizens without there being a legal basis for it, and we in the Radical Left believe so, whether or not the minister concerned sits on our mandates. And the greater the consequence of the intervention, the more crucial it is, of course, that the legal basis is clear and clear. I am not counting on the Prime Minister to look at that differently, and that is certainly not what I hear either. However, I still need to say this because there are many Danes who come along, not least these many mink growers who are losing their entire livelihood now. You also need to hear that we are all looking at it, and I hear that said very seriously, so that we will of course ensure that the law is followed when we ask them to make such a great sacrifice for the sake of global public health. If this does not seem to have happened, it is serious, and then we have to follow it to the end, so that we can have clarity about what has happened and where it has gone wrong so that conclusions can be drawn afterwards. And we think so, even though we support the idea and I would like to emphasise that we are making the recommendation and decision by the health authorities to reduce mink stocks in Denmark, because the health risk is too high and our global responsibility must be taken very seriously. So, like the government and the health authorities, and also the business community, we see a need for the legal basis to be put in place, even more quickly than usual. So my question is: does the Prime Minister agree that we need to get to the bottom of the matter, and what steps will the Prime Minister take to ensure that the public is given full clarity and insight into what has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134815	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110134816	Of course I am, because it is a mistake and a mistake must be investigated and it must be unveiled. I must be perfectly honest in saying that when I sit as Prime Minister and make a decision of this nature, I do not have the imagination to imagine that there is no legal basis for the decision that is taken, of course I do not. So, yes, I agree that a process of this nature, and I would like to think so, no matter what area we are talking about, must be investigated and unveiled, and we would be very happy to initiate this study, and of course we would also like to enter into dialogue with the parties of the Folketing on what it should contain and how it should be anchored. I should also like to welcome the question time to the new political leader of the Radical Left. I very, very much agree that this is about some mink farmers, whom we unfortunately are and it is so unhappy, and it is so heartbreaking, and I think we are all crying together with them, asking to make a huge sacrifice: to some extent renounce their life's work and kill their animals prematurely because of the global pandemic. It is very, very violent and it is also violent that we have had to shut down North Jutland for a period of time, moreover because of the same problem. So my clear hope is that, in addition to the discussion about the error made by the government and the handling of it, the Folketing will quickly negotiate the necessary compensation for the people we are talking about, and that we will be able to adopt this bill as soon as possible, because the conclusion has been written in my view, and that is the moment that the risk assessment by the health authorities hits us: unfortunately, the mines have to be killed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135014	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135014-2	Thank you. I am glad that the Prime Minister emphasizes that this must be investigated. But I still have to follow up: Can the Prime Minister explain how it is going to be possible for the FDA to send out this message that all mink should be killed without there being any legal basis for the authorities to demand it? Why didn't you make sure it was legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135046	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135046-2	I do not have the opportunity to explain what decisions are being taken in the individual authority, but I can say that what the government is clearly communicating last week, and it is me who is standing at the press conference, is that the minks in Denmark must be put down. That is the decision we are making and we are doing it because of public health. In my view, we cannot risk a spread of viruses in Denmark from mink to human beings, nor can we risk it because of mutation that we are potentially undermining a future vaccine. So that's the decision we make. But we are not aware of the fact that we are making the decision that there is no legal basis for making the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135130	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135130-2	Thank you. So just to conclude, because that is what it is going to centre on, and quite rightly, I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister agree that a possible illegal instruction should always be thoroughly investigated and that responsibility should be placed, regardless of who the Minister is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135152	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135152-2	Yes, of course. But I would like to stress again: what interest should this government have in the absence of a legal basis? So, our only interest in this case is to lead Denmark well through the global pandemic, even though it requires some extremely difficult decisions • relevant to the mink growers, which I deeply and sincerely regret, but nevertheless is necessary. So I was about to say that hopefully it goes without saying that if the government had been made aware that there was no legal basis for killing, the government would of course have communicated it at the press conference that has been held immediately after the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135234	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135241	First of all, I would like to say to the discussions about mink that there are those farmers who are knocking down their animals, and I think we should all understand how serious this is for them and that it is their life's work. I think we all in the Folketing have very much respect about that. And then I would say to the way things are handled legally that it is not possible to slop on such a piece of legislation. I think we are in agreement on this, and that is why we need to explain it to the full. I think that is a positive statement from the Prime Minister. As far as the SF is concerned, it does not matter which government is making such a mess about legislation; it must of course be investigated because it damages confidence in our elected representatives. And everyone can make mistakes, but this is a big one, so of course it has to be investigated. That's it. Having said that, I would like to say that corona is not just about mink, albeit serious. There are also major consequences for others in North Jutland: the vulnerable, the lonely, the elderly, the disabled, the poorest families, they also pay a high price for the restrictions they are under right now. When you look at Kristeligt Dagblad's front page today, it works among other things. About the elderly with dementia. Their disease has been aggravated by the shutdown. There's nothing to say about that. Social activity and meaningful activities are not just the best efforts towards dementia, but they are often the only ones. The other day I asked on Facebook if people would share their private experiences with how the restrictions have affected their older family members. Someone told me that her mother-in-law had suffered delirium, severe depression and lost weight, had shrunk. Another tells of a healthy and vibrant mother of 88 years of age who has managed everyday life herself, but that the bridge she went to and the gymnastics she was cultivating and the girlfriends she was chatting with were gone. The quality of life had disappeared. A third tells of a mother in rehabilitation, who can only be physically seen by one person, while the rest of the family must stand on the street shouting up to the first floor. She rarely understands what they're saying. Of course we should not just open up again, but can we not make a special effort for these people so that they do not get lost and suffer from the epidemic of loneliness instead of corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135500	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135501	Thank you. I would just like to go back to the decision we take as a government in relation to public health. On this question of legal bases, we are aware that there may be a lack of legal basis in relation to compensation for the mink industry, but not in relation to the killing of the minks. It is, of course, the killing of mines which, unfortunately, is a necessary decision to take because of the situation that arises after we have received a risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institute. I have to hold on to the fact that, despite the fact that it is of course necessary to clarify why this mistake has been made and it is the responsibility of the government that a mistake is made... this is about the health of the Danes, and it is about public health. That is why, in addition to the misfortune of having to kill the minks, we are now also in the unhappy situation that North Jutland will have to cut its activities drastically for a period of time, and we have strongly recommended that you stay at home in your own municipality. And yes, it has human costs. It had it in the spring, and it has now also, specifically in North Jutland, but of course also given elsewhere, because when the infection comes out of control, also in a local area, then we see several places that you shut down, for example for visitors to the elderly. This is a terribly difficult balancing exercise, because in other countries we have seen that control is not controlled and that, to put it bluntly, covid-19 has killed many people in individual care centres. We must not go there in Denmark. I am sensitive to any good idea of how we can maintain closeness and relations and care along the way in a global pandemic. Sometimes it is going to offend against our need to protect specifically against the infection that kills if it hits the wrong people. There are very many people at risk in Denmark, approx. 600,000 Danes, and these are the ones we're fighting to protect in this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135709	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135710	SF has always been prepared for us to be restrictive in relation to corona, to be seeking out, to do preventive work. This means, among other things, that we have recommended that in kindergartens, crèches and our schools there should be small groups; this also applies in the care of the elderly and in the health care system so that we can quickly track down and find out who has been infected and thus also protect other citizens. So we actually agree with the government to be restrictive. At the same time, I can be concerned about the second wave we can get from other diseases. Because it may be that you don't die of the corona, but then you can die of something else: loneliness, which is not a physical illness, but is actually something that sits in people. People who are older and who have very little time left to live need close contact. But it is not only the elderly who are affected by this epidemic of loneliness; so do the most vulnerable. KFUM says that the demand for their Christmas help has increased by 60%, and I think that if we ask all around, they will say the same thing. There is simply not enough Christmas aid this year and I think Christmas will be very different. Will the government look at making a special Christmas package for some of these vulnerable families, so that they too will have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas during this very special time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135823	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135825	Well, we have to be skinless honest with each other and say that it has a huge price to get through a global epidemic. The couples who have lost work in Tårnby, where he may have worked at the airport and she with catering, after 30-40 good years on the labour market may both be out of work now. The mink growers are under discussion at this time, and that deeply affects us. There are plenty of people employed in the mink industry, about mink production itself, in rural areas. This has huge consequences. We can't be together across our families and in other relationships as we used to be. It is going to have and has already had consequences in relation to loneliness. And if we do not manage the situation, the burden on health care will increase, and then there will be patients who will be put off their operations again. That's why it's alleraller's most important thing we can do, to have control over the epidemic... it's actually a little bit decreasing in Denmark right now, what's positive, so we'll get through this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135931	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110135933	What's important to SF is that there are also balances in this. We have a great deal of understanding and sympathy with the mink growers. Maybe we need to make a big compensation package. I think somebody's talking about two-digit billions. We have been prepared to hold hands under some of the unemployed by doing some of the things SF has really fought for, namely dead periods of unemployment benefit. We have been busy getting some of the unskilled to work again. A lot of things have to happen here. I'm just preoccupied with, for example. the 120 families in North Jutland, who are so vulnerable that they have to garbage. Those families have nowhere to go, and at the moment they cannot garbage, for that would simply be irresponsible. The 120 families are children's families for which we will be able to make an extra effort; we just have to remember them when we do this. At any rate, I think it is very difficult for them to understand that we are giving a two-digit billion to mink farmers, but that they do not have money, so that they, for example, do. can buy medicine or food next month, because they have a hard time doing that. Then I think the balance is crooked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140034	Well, I actually think that when you look over this course, which now extends back to March, we here in the Folketing have been able to give a helping hand to very many different people in very many different situations of life. And seven-nine-tright, knocking under the table, very much still suggests that Denmark is one of the countries that comes relatively well through the pandemic when you look at what a huge crisis we have been in and are still in. So I'm gonna sign for the goodwill there is to have an eye on many different parts of this community. We're getting close to Christmas. I am also concerned about how we get through it in a way that makes room for the warmth of heart and the cohesion and association that characterizes most people's Christmas. Here, of course, we need to have a special attention point, because it is also a period that can hurt extra if you cannot be allowed to be with those you used to be with, or maybe have no one to be with. So I would like to say yes to a common point of attention there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140132	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140143	Thank you. Something really has gone wrong with the handling of this mutated mink virus cluster-5 in the process. There is a great deal of evidence to suggest that warnings were overheard, possibly that the Minister for Food for too long also allowed sick mink to survive despite warnings. Then we have the discussion on the lack of a legal basis, which has also been up today. There has been a mess with what has been recommendations and what has been shell and not shell. When has the Minister deliberately or unconsciously acted without a legal basis? And it must be quite clear that the authorities and ministers should not do anything that is not legal. This cannot be ignored either, as a minister, because something needs to be done quickly. Then you can ask for urgent treatment, but the law has to always be there. That is why, of course, we cannot say that this must now be forced through with a healthy mink, because that legal basis must be put in place before we can continue with it. It is quite, quite serious; I think so. Then there is no doubt, from the point of view of Enhedslisten, that that legal basis must be in place. I think it is irresponsible to discuss a political process which is very serious, it is the hostage into a health discussion. And that is why the Enhedslisten very clearly supports the government in that if we could, we should have dealt with the proposal as a matter of urgency, which would ensure a legal basis, and we will be supporting the government in it. But I would also just like to make very, very clear to the Prime Minister and it may not be so much an issue as it is a message, I know it's a little out of the category that it's our basic view in the Enhedslisten that ministers, red as blue, have to live up to their responsibilities and they have to keep the legislation. It is so important that we get that stressed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140359	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140401	I fully and completely agree with this, and normally in Denmark, as I know, we would almost never find ourselves in a situation where political initiatives would be communicated at all unless there was already legislation adopted. This is already changing back in March, because we had to take a number of initiatives without any provision being made for them. We said that explicitly. The Danish Parliament has helped to deal urgently with legislation on several occasions so that the necessary effort to contain covid-19 could find a place. So I am fundamentally in agreement with the analysis and therefore I am also saying that, as we make the decision in the government and then communicate about it, we are not aware that there is no legal basis for us to make the decision that we communicate. I would have held the same press conference with the same message on Wednesday if I were aware that there was no legal basis, but would of course have added: Parliament, this requires urgent procedure, so that we get the legal basis in place, and we will ask for that to be done as soon as possible. There are a number of things that remain: a mistake has been made here in relation to the necessary legal basis for killings. But it also says that we are at risk of a delay now in relation to the unfortunately getting rid of the animals that we have to put to death.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140518	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140523	I have heard that, and it is, in fact, a good first answer and a good step on the way to discovering what has happened. I would like to point out that I believe there are at least two things that have gone wrong. One is the lack of a legal home, and the other is that something suggests that in the Ministry of Food, or at least in the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority, you have been warned about this risk without acting on it and have allowed sick mink to survive despite a warning about the risk of a mutated virus. I think that is quite, quite serious, and therefore thank you for the first answer we have heard, but it is also a message that we in the Enhedslisten do not think it is enough. We have called for consultation, for we need to get the timelines straight: Who knew when? Why is there no connection between what the Minister of Food says one day and the other day? It must be fully unveiled. This is a very serious matter, and I think the Prime Minister has understood that, but it has now been emphasized from this point of view. That is why, of course, I also hope that the Prime Minister will ensure that he communicates to his Minister for Food, that it would be very good that we could have the consultation that has been called for very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140624	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140626	It is clear, and as I said to some of my colleagues before, that a course such as this must of course be properly examined, and at all events what the Folketing wants to examine must be examined. This should be the case under every government in every matter. I've always thought so, and that doesn't change because I'm Prime Minister. Then I would just like to welcome the responsibility that also lies in the comment here, because this is a health crisis we are facing. It is a health crisis and there is now a serious risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institute and from the health authorities, and I do not think that this can be ignored.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140709	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140711	Thank you. I fully agree with that, and therefore I must also say that just as worried I am about the process that has preceded this, I am equally disappointed that we have a right wing who will take health hostage in this discussion. I think that is simply unworthy. Even if we have to ensure that law is law and that it must be observed, and we have to find those responsible, that legislation should simply be rushed through so that we could get the legal basis in place and we could ensure health not only in Denmark but also globally. My last question, which I really want to ask, is also about the Northern Jutlanders, as much of this does these days. They are subject to very severe decommissioning, and this also applies to the unemployed up there, as the employment effort is virtually shut down. Well, no one in his wildest fantasy thinks you can find a job up there right now. Would the Prime Minister please say that, in connection with the aid packages we are sending, there must also be a so-called death period for the benefit recipients and the sickness benefit recipients who are in North Jutland and who do not have an earthly chance of finding work right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140813	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140815	At any rate, I do not think that in any way sounds unreasonable, and we have been working on this way of thinking in the other aid packages when there have been general closures. So we are very, very open to discussing this, and it is not certain that this is the last time we in Denmark see a regional decommissioning due to some specific challenges, nor is it certain that we avoid further restrictions at national level. We are in a situation right now where we have a fall in the number of infected people, and that is, I say, quite wild, because the situation in virtually the rest of Europe, or at least in really, very many countries, is the opposite: an epidemic in which there is a very, very violent development of infection and where the epidemic in some places is actually out of control where you are standing right now. So how we help those who have already lost their jobs, in North Jutland well through this, and how we then do everything we can to ensure that the companies that are closed down now get started quickly, we are very, very happy to engage in a discussion of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140916	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110140923	The government has broken the law; it seems everyone is aware of this by now. Through lies, silences and explanations, Minister for Food, Mogens Jensen, has tried to cover up his own crime. So the State Minster has a minister in his government who breaks the law and lies about it. In recent days, Minister for Food, Mogens Jensen, has contradicted himself several times. This can't all be right. Logically, half must be at least untrue and thus a lie. What are the consequences of this? Will the Minister be replaced? Will the government resign? Or will the Prime Minister protect himself and his government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141015	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141017	There has been an error in the fact that it turned out that there was no legal basis for the decision taken by the government last week. I would like to repeat, and I would like to emphasise, that I believe this was a correct decision and we are in favour of it. When there is a risk assessment of the nature of the Statens Serum Institute and of the health authorities, I do not believe that any government, and I do not have to add any responsible party, can ignore it either. Public health must be the most important thing. Quite a lot of the Northern Jutlanders infected with covid-19 are infected because of mink, and due to mutation there is a risk compared to a future vaccine. So I believe that the substance and content remain the same. Then there has been an error in relation to the lack of legal basis for the decision. It's a mistake. It is also a regrettable mistake and, as other colleagues have said here today, I am also of the opinion that this course of action must of course be examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141116	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141118	So the Prime Minister stands here in the Assembly Hall today, acquiescing himself and the government. Crime is called error, and lies are called vague communication. I find it appalling and I think it is violent, extremely damaging to the people's rule and to democracy. I think it should stop here; let us put an end to all forms of abuse of power, even if it is felt that public health is obviously more important. I and New Citizens will put a motion of censure to the vote in Parliament, and if the Prime Minister himself will not draw the consequences of the violations and lies that have been made, then I hope that democracy, the rule of the people, will do so. I imagine the Prime Minister hopes that the government will be protected by the left, but I do not think so. Fortunately, there are also decent and upright people on the left, for whom the difference between lie and truth, wrong and right matters. Does the PM really think the case ends here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141227	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141229	I don't think it should. Because, of course, when a mistake is made, it has to be discovered what is at the root of it. So I don't think so, and I don't think so either. After all, I am of the fundamental conviction that we must be able to examine, and this applies to all governments, and moreover, that studies which have been decided upon by others must be able to continue when we take up office as a government. So the answer to that is no. I have to attack the issue of abuse of power. The government has had a single interest in this matter, and it is public health, which unfortunately now requires the Danish mink to be put down, what is unhappy and a heavy decision. This has nothing to do with abuse of power, but because of a regrettable error there has been no legal basis for the decision taken. And as soon as the government gets to know about this, a message will also pass to the Folketing, and we will of course have to get that legal home in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141340	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141342	A minister shall be penalised if he, intentionally or through gross negligence, fails to fulfil the obligations incumbent upon him under the Constitution or the law, in any other way or according to the nature of his post. That is what the law of ministerial responsibility says, and a minister with thousands of highly paid DJs in his back cannot just say: I really did not know that. Apologies for ignorance do not apply to ministers. A restaurateur gets a fine from the Minister of Food for forgetting to put a tick in a schedule, traders are expected to know and manage a jumble of laws and rules, and there falls firewood if they overlook just one paragraph. So should ministers be able to exonerate themselves from lying and lawbreaking? Does the PM really mean that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141434	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141436	There are two things: since we are making the very difficult decision we are making last week about the killing of Danish mink, there is a legal issue in relation to the compensation part, but not in relation to the killing part, and that is a mistake, and it must of course be investigated. I would say that the right way to do things, including in this case, is that when a mistake is made, it must be detected and investigated, and I have already given a commitment to initiate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141512	The question is over. I would like to say that words mean something and that they can seem very strong in this Chamber. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141525	Thank you. Wednesday the Prime Minister convenes a press conference in which the Prime Minister gives the instruction, the order, that all mink in Denmark should be killed. It is probably the most far-reaching political decision in recent Danish history. The instruction, the order, turns out to be illegal. Friday, 48 hours later, you send out a letter to all the minkkeepers telling them to put their animals to death. They even get a bonus to make it quick. Sunday or Saturday, but probably Sunday, the Prime Minister realizes that the instructions and orders given by the Prime Minister on Wednesday are illegal, and it is then that it is beginning to become interesting in relation to what the Prime Minister's reaction is after the Prime Minister finds out it is illegal. The Minister for Food goes out and says: we don't give a shit about that, we were supposed to do this, even if we knew it was illegal. We'll find out that's not true. What the Minister of Food says is simply untrue. But the Prime Minister chooses not to rebuke the Minister of Food. On the contrary, the illegal instruction is still being executed in the real world, and although the Prime Minister knows it is illegal, the Prime Minister does nothing. I was out visiting a mink farm yesterday, and before I leave the mink farm, some of the defenses come by wearing uniforms, military vests and everything to check that they are now also killing the healthy mink. In other words, the 48 hours following the Prime Minister's finding out that what is going on is illegal are marked by inaction and by the fact that you do not correct your Minister for Food when he speaks untruely that you do not do a whistling bullshit before Tuesday morning. What is it that goes through the PM's head for the 48 hours after you find out that what you're doing is illegal when you don't do anything about it? In short, what on earth is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141722	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141723	What has happened is that Monday in the government we receive a risk assessment from the health authorities in terms of mink in Denmark. In that there is a very clear risk assessment, one must say, which we believe we cannot ignore. We will immediately decide that the minks will unfortunately have to be killed on Tuesday, and we will convene a press conference on Wednesday. I would have carried out the same press conference on Wednesday with the same message if I had been told in our discussion of this, but with an addition that I would have asked the Danish Parliament for urgent procedure. It then turns out that there was not the legal basis on which I, of course, based the decision. This is being brought to our attention in the Prime Minister's Office during the weekend, and it is being responded to by the fact that it must of course be described and transmitted to the Folketing. I think that is the right way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141837	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141839	I'm sorry, I think it's completely crazy to make one of the most far-reaching decisions on Tuesday at all in the history of Danish politics to kill all minks, including the healthy minks, and there's not one in the room who asks: do we even have the authority to do that? Do we even have the authority to take people's private property from them? Well, there is something that has gone completely wrong already at that stage. But you do execute anyway, and then you find out it's illegal, and then it's that the Prime Minister doesn't do anything about the fact that the Minister of Food speaks untrue, that the Minister of Food claims that it has always been known that you don't care about it, and nothing does about the fact that in the next 48 hours you still execute an illegal instruction. Why is it that the Prime Minister waits 48 hours to take responsibility for what turned out to be an illegal order? Why don't you take responsibility for it already on Sunday? It's the Prime Minister who says on Wednesday that every mink must be put to death. Then you find out over the weekend that it's illegal, and then you don't do anything until Tuesday. I simply do not understand why. What's happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110141944	I think we have to stick to the fact that there are so many aspects to this. There is one aspect that concerns the poor minkers who unfortunately have their life's work ruined because of a global pandemic, and in relation to the handling of them and their conditions I continue to hope for a broad political agreement so that we can help those people on their way and have them compensated for the accident that has hit them. Since we are making the decision in the government, there are many other considerations to take in addition to what specifically concerns mink growers. In fact, there is a consideration to be given to North Jutland; that work begins. And in this whole decision there are potentially large interests, Danish interests, at stake in this, and therefore speed of course means something. But if we had been aware that there was no legal basis for what I still believe is the necessary decision, namely that the minks should be put to death, it should of course have been said already on Wednesday; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142042	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142044	My last question is the same as the last two times, because I have still not received an answer to it. And so, we have to consult on the matter if it is that we cannot get an answer to it. What I miss an answer to is: why is it that you do not withdraw the illegal order until today, when you have known it for the last 48 hours? That is actually a rather trivial question. I fully agree with everything that precedes finding out that it is illegal, fair enough, mistakes happen. I still can't make it happen in my head that such a big mistake happens, but what I'm interested in is why it's that the Prime Minister hasn't responded to it in the last 48 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142117	So, with regard to the administration's handling of this matter in concrete terms, I have to refer to the Minister for Food. But, of course, I would like to repeat what has also been at the heart of today's debate: this is a serious situation we are in the midst of a global pandemic. We have a very, very important task in leading Denmark well through this crisis and taking care of the health of the Danes, which is why we are in a situation where, unfortunately, we have to put the mines to rest. That work should continue and I sincerely hope that we will get the legal basis in place as quickly as possible so that we do not risk human lives in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142200	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. The question is over. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142207	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are not superimpressed by the handling by the Minister of Food and Government of the decommissioning of these mink farms and the killing of the minks. But my question is also about these mink farmers and what will become of them and how we will help them further. After all, there are 1,139 mink farms that need to be shut down now, and in the alternative, we are concerned about how to help these people to the best of their ability to move on to new professions. Could one imagine here perhaps trying to help those people, perhaps through a green fund, further in terms of being able to continue as farmers, perhaps as farmers, perhaps even as organic farmers, and exploit the fact that there is really, really, really good sales in Danish organic products? What does the Prime Minister think about how we can help these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142309	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142311	First of all, I have to say that it is difficult to hear the questions because of the noise from outside. I hope that I got all the words in the question and understand it as follows: whether we can imagine that we actively support the fact that some of the people who have worked directly or indirectly with mink production can get into some industries in agricultural production, which can remind them of what they have done before, in one way or another. Of course, I think that is a very good idea. It escapes with some of the considerations that we ourselves have in relation to some conversion pool, both in relation to the part of the production apparatus which might be used for something else I do not know the extent of it, I must hurry to say but also in relation to the human competences. I believe that it is important here to have a very direct dialogue with the affected, both the mink growers, but also the employees out there, because there will be very different life situations and therefore very different needs. But the idea of helping to be converted to other forms of agricultural production seems to me to be basically good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142415	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142417	In our question there was, of course, the fact that we might be able to help these people into organic farming, organic food production. My second question is that the government created a party and joy at the green walk up here at Christiansborg, when you announced that there should be two meat-free days a week in the state institutions, but then the government backed it up again, and that is of course incomprehensible to us in the Alternative. We could take a long time to criticize that. We've spent some time on it, but it's hardly going to get the two meat-free days back. So instead, I want to know whether the Prime Minister will support a proposal from the Danish Vegetarian Association and the Alternative that everyone should have the right to a plant-based alternative in the public sector. It can, for example, be done. is about a person who has been a vegan for 30 years, who is in a hospital and who has been operated on and wakes up and needs to have some food, not to be burdened by a red steak, but is entitled to a plant-based alternative. The latest national survey from Coop shows that 44 per cent. of the Danes actually support the right to a plant-based alternative, while 4%. is against, and at the Regional Hospital Randers and Bispebjerg Hospital you have had that opportunity for a long time. What does the Prime Minister think about getting a plant-based alternative to catch up with some of the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142532	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142534	Well, I'm actually thinking that basically, I don't want us to be central in deciding which food is served in which canteen. The discussion that has taken place in relation to this meat-free day is, of course, due to the fact that we have a 70-percent target that has been adopted broadly and that will require some difficult decisions and also some sacrifices. And it can be said that this discussion shows that there are not so many easy decisions left from here. It comes with a price to want to reach the 70%, but my basic position is that we really should not interfere as much as possible in the decisions that can be taken locally. I'm gonna try not to be my clue here, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142615	Then that is the final question. Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142618	This is a question from one of our Members. We always let Members ask questions, and this is from Helle Wium, who praises the government's work on the Climate Act, but asks: how is it possible to achieve the major climate gas reduction with ongoing projects, such as the continued expansion of the motorway network, the Fehmarn connection and an Kattegat connection, which will generate a huge consumption of raw materials, which is otherwise lacking, and subsequently CO2 Our member has heard a figure of 30,000 cars per day on a possible Kattegat connection. How can we achieve the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142659	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142701	Fortunately, if we take the three projects, a decision has been taken on a Fehmarn connection, and many of us are happy that we will tie Europe even closer together, we will tie Denmark and Germany together. This means a great deal for jobs at Lolland and Falster and southern Zealand. Motorways we will have to deal with in connection with an infrastructure plan, hopefully also with public transport. That will certainly be our approach. After all, the Kattegat connection has not been decided on in concrete terms. We must ensure that we transport more and more green, but we must also ensure that people can actually transport themselves and get to work and have a day-to-day relationship, and we will have to deal with that balance in the future, whether it is a discussion about cars or it is a discussion about infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142751	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and thank the Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142800	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 76 (Proposal for a law amending the law on unemployment insurance, sickness benefits and the Act on active social policy). Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen): Bill No. L 77 (Proposal for a law on the killing and temporary ban of mink). Carl Valentin (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reception of children of refugees from Greece). Liselott Blixt (DF), Birgitte Bergman (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution requiring the Government not to introduce a right to a legal change of sex for children). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Mr. I have been informed by Edmund Joensen, who is on leave, that from 11 November 2020 onwards he will be able to meet again in the Chamber. Magnus Rasmussen's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Member of the Folketing Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution banning mink breeding. B 24). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142922	Member of the Folketing Morten Østergaard (RV) has applied for leave from 10 November 2020, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a).
ParlaMint-DK_20201110142950	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Radical Left in Østre Storkreds, Susan Kronborg, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 10 November 2020 on the occasion of Morten Østergaard's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143018	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143059	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143133	Thank you for the floor. I'm filling in today for the Legal Rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, sir. Jeppe Bruus, who is still in quarantine because he has had the corona virus. Right now, many Danish companies are struggling with the financial consequences of the covid-19 pandemic, and the spread of infection has affected many companies on earnings. Therefore, the need to help otherwise healthy businesses get back on their feet is greater than usual. If a company is insolvent, it has the possibility to apply for reconstruction. It allows to help a healthy business through a period of financial difficulties, without the company going bankrupt and owners and creditors losing money and their employees losing their jobs. The bill here is intended to improve the regulatory framework to apply for reconstruction. The proposals on which the bill is based come from the Board of Competitors and the recommendations they have made, and the bill will include: make reconstruction cheaper and more attractive to especially smaller businesses. At the same time, a failed reconstruction should not automatically result in bankruptcy. The draft law will also make it easier to make a transfer of business during reconstruction treatment so that others can carry on the business. This bill will hopefully make reconstruction an attractive offer for more, especially during the current pandemic, but also in the future it will hopefully mean that more will apply for reconstruction and get the company on course again, instead of companies with temporary problems going bankrupt. It is a joyful news for all, every time a bankruptcy is averted, and we hope that the bill here will give more of this kind of joyful news. At the same time, the draft law also provides for the amendment of the jurisdiction rules for debt relief, because the current rules are contrary to EU law. From now on, it will be the place where a citizen as a whole has the greatest connection, which will be decisive and not per year. definition of the residence of the citizen. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143346	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143357	I should like to begin by saying that, in addition to speaking on behalf of the Left, I am speaking on behalf of the new citizens who are engaged in another meeting at the moment. The proposal we are going to look at here is a proposal that changes the jurisdiction rules for debt relief, so that you live in Sweden, you can still be discharged from debt relief in Denmark. Of course, we can fully support this. It is, of course, nice to be repaid, but those who live abroad will be aware that the claims are therefore not piecemeal as far as foreign claims are concerned. That's what it is. In addition, the proposal contains some technical details which I shall not go into here, but, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, the most important thing is to equate reconstruction and bankruptcy with business transfer. It will therefore be the same rules that apply, especially in relation to the legal position of employees, when transferring a company during a restructuring period as when doing so from a bankrupt person. This is super fine, because there has apparently been a tendency that it was best or easiest to go bankrupt and then get handed over in that situation. Mr Summa summarum can the Left fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143519	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, and we move on quickly to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, who is from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143529	Thank you. Some might think that this bill might seem a little boring in its form and that there might be a risk of people falling asleep in the Parliamentary Chamber during the legislative procedure. Then, of course, it is good that we have some outside to stay awake with loud music and rabble by hitting on different pot lids etc., but we must then learn to handle that in a different way. The Minister for Justice has put forward the bill on 21 October and it is a proposal, as was also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, who addresses two different objectives. The first is to bring jurisdiction rules for debt relief into line with EU law, and it is, of course, fine that you go in and look at where people live and that you do not have a narrow discussion, in relation to whether you are resident in Denmark or not. For example, it is important that in this way we make it possible to come after those who owe money to the public. After all, it is important to clarify that the draft law put forward by the Minister of Justice does not change the conditions for debt relief. The second objective concerns the bankruptcy of companies with what are called temporary economic problems, for example in view of the very sad corona situation we have, where there are companies that may have major but hopefully transient economic problems. It is possible, in relation to the recommendations of the Competition Council, to make some additions which, at the same time, ensure that the legal position of the claimants is maintained and that, of course, one does not lose one's right to be in the front line for those who need to have money in the event of bankruptcy. Both are some things that the Danish People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143726	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143737	Thank you for the floor. The aim of the draft law here is first to bring the jurisdiction rules for debt relief into line with the rules of EU law on free movement. It is, of course, important that our rules are consistent with that in relation to the judgment delivered at the European Court of Justice, judgment of 11 July last year. The next thing that is also important with the draft law is that, in view of the sad covid-19 situation we are in, we improve the regulatory framework for companies that are viable but have current financial difficulties, which, in relation to the situation they are in, are considered to be temporary, can be continued instead of being declared bankrupt. We are very positive about this in the Radical Left, and it is also based on thorough consideration by the Competition Council. We are also willing to look at some of the inputs that have been through the consultation responses. There are, for example: some who point out that it may be a rather short time limit for creditors to point out their claims within 5 days. Is that supposed to be 10 days? There are a number of things in them that we are willing to look at. However, we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143916	Thank you for that, sir. Kristian Hegaard, and welcome to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110143926	Thank you for the floor. It's a decent mop boy for a bill to get through, and it contains a lot of things. I would say that, in the SF, we are in favour of the part of the bill which updates the jurisdiction rules for debt relief, so that they flee with EU law in this area and, at the same time, also improve the possibilities of avoiding bankruptcy for viable companies that have temporary financial difficulties. Unfortunately, this is a risk that some companies are looking into right now because of corona. It is also positive that, in future, the Employees' Guarantee Fund will have to make pay-back payments as early as the start of the employer's reconstruction treatment when it comes to a claim by employees who have been terminated and released before or during the reconstruction process. We note that the main trade union organization also thinks it is a good idea. We believe that the proposal may have some shortcomings that we are looking forward to discussing during the committee procedure. We have, for example. notes that a failed reconstruction following the proposal does not automatically end in the delivery of the bankruptcy decree. We would like to see the consequences assessed. And then there are the courts who believe that the proposal imposes an additional cost on them. Of course, we are concerned here about whether it is fully funded. We would like to commend the Minister for having omitted that part of the draft law of the Competit Council which excludes the debtor's employees from the persons to be notified of the termination of the reconstruction. It is not included in the draft law, and we think it is good in the SF. But on that basis, I would say that we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144118	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. And welcome to Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten... De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144125	Thank you. Perhaps some might have hoped that this would have been a lively debate on the benefits that can be gained from reservations about the European Union and what opportunities it creates, but it does not look like that. I would say that in the Enhedslisten we agree equally with the Bankruptcy Council's assessment of debt relief for residents abroad and have no objection to the Council's interpretation of the basic requirements that the centre of the main economic, political and social interest of debtors should be found where the debtor has filed a request and debt relief. Hosting rules for debt relief shall continue to assume that the cases are dealt with in the jurisdiction in which the case is most closely connected. In the Enhedslisten, we can also support the Bankruptcy Council's recommendations for changes that ease the costs of reconstruction proceedings, in the hope that it will lead more particularly small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses to take advantage of the opportunities so that closed-off but viable companies can continue instead of being declared bankrupt. In addition, we are satisfied with the Bankruptcy Council's assessment and the Ministry of Justice's proposals for changes in the rules, which enable employees to be covered by wage claims etc. prior to, during and after reconstruction therapy. That is why we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144253	You're welcome. And welcome to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144259	Thank you for the floor. I'm here instead of sir. Naser Khader I'm handling all Conservative cases today. This bill, as has also been said, is divided into two, if you can put it that way. The Government proposes first of all that the jurisdiction rules for debt relief be brought into line with EU law. In addition, it is proposed to improve the opportunities for viable companies with temporary financial problems in order to avoid bankruptcy. A judgment of the European Court of Justice in June 2019 shows that the residence requirements of the bankruptcy law in respect of debt relief cases are contrary to free movement. We must, of course, correct this, because Denmark must, of course, comply with the law in force for the European Union. For Conservatives, it goes without saying that Denmark must comply with the rules adopted by the community in which we have voluntarily joined. The second part of the draft law, which concerns the possibility for companies to continue despite temporary economic problems, is also welcome. Because at a time when our companies are so under pressure, we must take special care. And although we would like to commend the government for this proposal, we would also like to give the government a great deal on the road, especially now that it is the tax minister who is the substitute. Because if the government really wants to do something for our companies, it might be that you should also start looking at how to make it cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark. We have plenty of ideas in the Conservative People's Party about how to do it if the government needs anything. And apart from that, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144424	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving forward. Is there anyone here from New Citizen? There is not, and the Liberal Alliance has announced that they are not taking part in the first reading of this bill. That's why we've come to the acting Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144456	Thank you very much, President, and thank you for the very positive support that has been given to this proposal here today. As has also been said, the reality is that many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are currently experiencing economic difficulties as a result of the Coronapandemic. In addition to the many aid packages, it is important for the government to ensure that as many companies as possible avoid bankruptcy and can also be operated further. The aim of the legislative proposal we are debating today is, as I have said, to improve the possibilities for companies that are viable to continue instead of being declared bankrupt. This is good for companies, and it is also good for the many employees who are otherwise at risk of losing their jobs. The purpose of the draft law is also to bring the jurisdiction rules for debt relief into line with EU law. If we look first at the rules of reconstruction, they are intended, as I have said, to create the possibility of continuing companies which are viable, disregarding the current economic difficulties in which the company may find itself. Today, the rules of reconstruction are not very often applied. This may be due to the fact that the rules are costly and that, after a failed reconstruction, companies are automatically declared bankrupt. The draft law aims to improve the regulatory framework for the continuation of viable companies and their employees, while taking account of creditors. It is expected that the proposal will increase the incentive for companies to try to be reconstructed. This is because companies can no longer look forward to an automatic bankruptcy procedure if the reconstruction fails early in the process. This is also due to the fact that the liquidity burden of having to appoint an accounting expert shop steward and providing security for a later bankruptcy proceedings is lifted. As mentioned above, the second part of the draft law concerns jurisdiction rules for debt relief. It follows today from the bankruptcy law that an application for debt relief is dealt with by a Danish court if the debtor has returned home, i.e.: residence, in Denmark. However, in a judgment of 11 July 2019, the European Court of Justice found that the residence requirement of the bankruptcy law in debt relief cases is contrary to the free movement of workers. That judgment then means that the residence requirement of the bankruptcy law in debt relief cases must be changed so that in some cases people without residence in Denmark can also apply for debt relief in this country. Against this background, it is proposed that, in future, the application for debt relief be submitted to the law of the jurisdiction at the centre of the debtor's main interests. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your very positive support for the proposal. There were a few questions from the SF about additional costs and also about the automatic bankruptcy; we are trying to look at this in committee work. And then I would like to thank you for the positive comments on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144822	Thank you. There are no comments, so we thank the acting Minister for Justice. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144843	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110144904	Thank you, President. As in the previous draft law, I am filling in for our legal rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Bruus. The bill is about a new law on court fees, i.e. the money paid as a citizen or company for legal proceedings and other legal acts. Legal fees are an important source of income, which last year attracted the state almost 0.5 billion. kr., and at the same time the charges have a behavior-regulating effect, as this means that citizens and companies are less likely to take completely hopeless cases that take up the time of the courts. It releases time for the many other important tasks of the courts. The draft law here makes the legal fees more transparent. The current law on court fees has 50 years on the back and has been amended numerous times. With a new updated legislation, the court fees will be simplified, among other things. by making them a fixed amount rather than a percentage of the costs. At the same time, the law ensures that the judicial system remains accessible to the public. The legal fees are important for the state and for the work of the courts, but they must not, of course, be so high that they really close the door to the judicial system for citizens who need to take legal action in the courts. At the same time, it is important that cases concerning the powers of the authorities are essentially exempted from taxation. We believe that the draft law here will make the legal fees more up-to-date and transparent for the people, and on this basis the Social Democrats support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145040	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145050	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that, in addition to speaking on behalf of the Left, I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Pernille Vermund, who has been admitted elsewhere in this House by another meeting. I think I can say that in every law firm the most worn-out book is not the one on the right of civil servants, the one on the problems of the real estate trade or the one on company law, but it is the one on the tax law in the commented version. It is incredibly complex, as it is today, and it really is a study for both lawyers and for those judges who, in preparation, ensure that the right legal fee has been paid. That puts the proposal in place to simplify, and I think that is a very good idea: percentage-based taxes are replaced by fixed amounts where some go up and some go down. The only problem that I and we in the Left see in this case is that when you regulate up and down and out and in, yes, it ends with 15 million. kr. In addition, in an area where the problems of the ordinary citizen and of business are very great in terms of costs, it will be 15 million. kr. More expensive here. In fact, we regard this as a tax, and at a time when the opportunities for free process and legal aid for citizens, etc. As I have said, it is extremely unfortunate. But I have to say that if the 15 million... kr. We can regulate the rates that exist, so that it becomes a zero-sum game, then the Left can agree to the proposal, but if not, we see it as an extra tax for the citizens, even for the citizens who are so unfortunate to have to bring a trial, and then it becomes a no from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145241	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145251	I would like to say that I have exactly the same concern as the Left Legal Rapporteur. I can't actually figure out what the consequences are of adjusting up and down all these rates. I can only rely on the fact that the Board of Law has delivered something, and that is of course hard to contradict. I'm thinking that it's really important that we get an evaluation of this area, so will the Left back it up? It is just because the Ministry of Justice has actually already rejected it, and therefore it probably depends somewhat on the support of the Left for such an evaluation, i.e. whether it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145328	I can answer that very clearly. If Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, with the words 'evaluation of this area', means that the citizen's right to go to court, including the question of whether the cost of legal proceedings has become so high that many citizens stay out of the legal system, even though they have a matter which deserved to be settled there, is the answer: yes, the Left would very much like to go along with this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145356	The questioner? There are no more questions. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145408	The Minister for Justice has put forward a proposal for a new law on court fees, and the good thing is that at the same time another law is being repealed. It's so bad they're both called exactly the same thing. The current law on court fees is actually by an older vintage... it's all the way back from 1969... and it's actually the same year I was born. So you can just look at yourself, then you know that it's a half-old toad of a law that we now say goodbye to, and then there comes an updated, new law. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that we are having a fight with some of the things that have been rigged by precisely this administration of how to make calculations of the value of the trial in relation to the bill that you will get in relation to court fees. Now there comes a model which, at least after the assumptions made in the speeches that have been made, becomes a relatively easier and uncomplicated system, and that is something that roughly gives the same revenue to the state, i.e. around this 450 million. kr. I would therefore like to say that, of course, I also noted that the rapporteur of the Left was out to say that this is an increase of around 3%, and we can of course reflect on whether this is necessary now. If you look at the Minister for Justice's written submission of the bill on 21 October, there are, in fact, on page two examples that illustrate the simplifications that can be summarised from this new law on court fees. It is true that you can see that many legal charges are being abolished, that is to say, completely removed. There may be common sense in that. But there are also some places where we can, of course, look forward to an increase in the legal levy. Some of the places where an increase can be expected are, for example, the minimum tax, which has not been regulated since 1989, and that is for example. in relation to actions, in relation to proceedings, etc. It's fine. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have some of the charges removed, for example also the tax on applications of our own personal bankruptcy. Some might say that it is a little tragic if you go bankrupt, that you have to go down to say: Hello, I would like to ask for my own bankruptcy. And then you have to say to the bankrupt: Well, that's 750 kroner. There may already be some who think that it seems a know unsmart. There are a few places where the fees are removed, and we also think there is common sense in this, not least in relation to lay-offs in connection with estates and in relation to some of the cases that are running, about funeral costs, etc. So, overall, we think that is very sensible. And to advance any questions, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party can also support the fact that there will be an investigation into what, among other things, is happening. The SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, asked about. It is common sense that we evaluate the initiatives that are being launched so we can also support this in the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145727	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110145738	Thank you for the floor. It must be easy and straightforward to get its case before the courts, but at the same time it should not be so that it is the first remedy in a conflict. That is why there are several reasons for having legal fees. It may be for fiscal reasons, to counteract unjustified legal proceedings and to promote the possibility of resolving a matter in friendly dialogue. Court fees for, inter alia: Since 1989 there has been no regulation since, even though the consumer price index has risen by 70%. The bill here sets a number of court fees at 750 DKK. This means that some are rising from, for example. 400 kroner. for 750 kroner.; others may fall from 1,000 kroner. or a little more to 750 kroner. This also means that, in all cases, the value of a case does not have to be determined, which may be somewhat difficult in some cases, and the work on it is not in line with the legal fee that is subsequently payable. However, the legal charge for large cases is still somewhat higher and follows a fixed tariff table according to the value of the case. In addition, the legal charge is removed where it is exclusively for fiscal reasons. That is, for example, the case. legal fees for the defendant's application for bankruptcy or settlements, attachment to the longest surviving spouse and extradition to the unchanged estate. The hearings also look positive, although there is a little criticism of the legal fees that are increasing. But after all, it's only a few hundred kroner. That is why the Radical Left is in favour of the draft law, which is based on thorough consideration by the Court of Justice. Like those who have been on before and talked about it, we also believe that an evaluation should be carried out. It could, for example, be done. be after two years in order to gain the experience of the new legal fees, so as to make sure that it does not discourage citizens, at least for economic reasons, from bringing proceedings for the exercise of authority, for example, where appropriate, but which many may already refrain from. Therefore, I am listening to the fact that there is already support for it from the Left, from the Danish People's Party and from the SF, so it looks positive to get a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150033	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, and welcome to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150045	Thank you for the floor. We also support the SF's ambition to create simpler rules for legal fees so that it will be easier for both citizens and authorities to understand what it is that you have to pay. In fact, we also think it makes sense to review the area, because, as several have said, the minimum taxes applicable to, among others. lawsuits and jail cases were not regulated at all for many years. In fact, in the meantime, the consumer price index has risen by 70%, so it makes sense to look at this. As I said before, I must also say that I do not have the slightest knowledge of what this has to do with the desire and the opportunity to take a case. As the rapporteur rightly said, access to free process and legal aid has become increasingly limited in recent years, and de facto the most vulnerable citizens have more and more difficulty in gaining access to effective prosecution. That is also why I mentioned that we need a deeper evaluation of this, and it is very gratifying that there are several parties supporting it. Then I think it's gonna work. It is certainly important that these changes do not become a barrier to access to justice for any citizen. It is important to be wary of whether these new charges are going to work properly or whether there are indications that in practice they restrict access to justice. With those comments, I can say that the SF supports the proposal, and I should like to welcome Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area, and to say that so does Enhedslisten, and that they are also behind the request for an evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150237	Thank you very much, and welcome to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150246	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Here, too, I'm a substitute for Naser Khader. With this bill, the government is proposing to simplify the rules on court fees. It must be done through a new law to replace the current law of 1969. So maybe it's about time. In concrete terms, the Government proposes, inter alia, that the legal fees which are currently calculated as a percentage of the value of the case should be replaced by a flat-rate charge. This makes it easier for citizens, first and foremost, to understand the economic consequences. In addition, it will mean that we debureaucraticise the tax calculation. These are two good things that we Conservatives naturally support. Another part of the proposal here is that a number of the charges which today have no procedural purpose, but only to give the State revenue, should be abolished. We can only back that up. Because the purpose of our legal system is not to make money for the Treasury. On the other hand, it is clear that the charges aimed at avoiding legal proceedings at will continue to make good sense. It is also legal certainty. Although, overall, the draft law contains many positive elements, we also share some of the concerns that have been raised here by several parties. We in the Conservative People's Party welcome the proposal and we welcome and look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150357	You're welcome. Then there's only the Liberal Alliance left, but they're not here. Then we go to the acting Minister of Justice, who is also the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150419	Thank you for that, President. Once again, thank you very much for the very broad support for the bill here. As has also been said, legal fees play an important role, and this is an important source of revenue for the State of approx. 54 million kr. a year. They also serve a procedural purpose and help to ensure that citizens and businesses use the courts in a way that is appropriate for other citizens and businesses and, of course, for society as a whole. Everyone must have access to justice in the courts, but remember that in all cases there is also a counterpart, and before the court has spoken, we do not know which of the parties has the right on its side. The draft law continues good elements of the existing law on taxation, including a low level of taxation in legal proceedings involving lower values, and a much lower maximum level of legal fees in legal proceedings relating to the review of the exercise of authority than in legal proceedings relating to private law. The bill thus ensures that the courts remain financially accessible to citizens and businesses, both to resolve disputes against private parties and as the independent body to which citizens and businesses may go in a dispute against the authorities. At the same time, as has already been suggested, a number of simplifications are proposed to facilitate the application of the law both to citizens and businesses and their lawyers and to the courts which administer the calculation and collection of legal fees. With these comments and with the lost comments on the draft law, I would suggest that the issues that have been raised here should be taken up by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, of course, we should also discuss the wishes that have been expressed in connection with an evaluation of the scheme, following on from any questions that might arise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150620	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments and no one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150641	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150700	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are now considering is, of course, a change to the Archive Act, and it is a change to ensure the fundamental principle that everyone has the right of access to their own case and to information about themselves. That is why it is really also a question of freedom... that everyone should have the right to know their own story... and it is perhaps special for those who, as children, have been placed outside the home, have been in orphanages or the like. The fact that they now make the pieces gather their own history and gain insight into it is an important part of understanding where you come from and who you are. Surely no one is in doubt that we have dark spots in our Danish history when it comes to the conditions and conditions that we ordered planted children. Too many of the weakest were abandoned, and we are now in the process of writing that story together. The Danmarks Forsorgsmuseum in Svendborg is working on an explanation of the failures and abuses that placed and exposed children and young people were subjected to while they were in state institutions and should have been under state protection. After all, some of them have already received an apology from official Denmark. Just as we must bring all that story and those stories to light, we must also give the people it is about the right to know their own story. Of course, access to your own information must be free of charge, I guess. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party also believes that this right of access to own information should be free of charge and should not depend on permissions, types or age of archives. It must not be one's income that determines whether one has the right to access one's own data, and now especially not because we know that some of those who have been exposed as children and young people also have a low income in their adult lives. As it is today, the National Archives has the possibility to charge for the identification of archives when a citizen applies for permission to access not immediately available archives. Under the current Archive Act alone, the National Archives deals annually with about 1,900 cases where a citizen has applied for insight into a case concerning the citizen himself. With this bill, these cases will be both free of charge and based on a genuine right to information, rather than the citizen having to apply for a derogation from the rules. The same will apply to the archives of municipalities and regions which contain information about the citizen and which are already free of charge to the citizen, but where this bill also gives a real right to the information for insight into one's own case and in one's own history. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150942	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, and we shall therefore move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110150953	Thank you for that, President. This bill is basically about giving citizens a right of access to their own information. We are, of course, in favour of this in the Left, because it is part of the basis for living in a society that you have the right to know your own information, and that should, of course, apply everywhere. It is also the case that 98 per cent. Of all those who access these archives, it actually gets it, so the difference isn't going to be that great with this proposal either. But that is why we think it is a good idea anyway. We also think it is a good idea to look at places other than the state archives, which this is all about, and we have also called on the Minister to do so. We also think it is a good idea for it to be done for free. If you hear what people out there are saying, it's also free today for the vast majority of those who are looking for information, but it's nice to have the last of them included, so let's just get it written down in the legislation. That's really good. I think that is very sensible, and it is a new provision in the Archive Act, which should give citizens free and unhindered access to their own information which is at the National Archives. In the future, it will be the case that a person who wants to have insight into his own affairs should not apply for permission, but should have a right of access to his own information. The right to own information must be a cornerstone of a democratic society. The change will, for example, be: ensure that citizens who have been placed in an orphanage, as we also heard the Socialist rapporteur say, or have been in special care, have the right to see their own information in files. I and the Left can support that insight into own information is done free of charge. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151223	No one is challenging short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151236	Thank you, President. We in the Danish People's Party can also agree to the extended access to our own information, to which this new law gives access. In addition to such a purely substantive aspect, it is also a small example of how Danish folk rule works well, how one does not necessarily have to stand and hammer on copper pans at Slotsplads to get legislators to talk, but in fact by more civilised ways also has the opportunity to exert influence. A few weeks ago, we had a delegation in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which raised sensible and well-considered concerns about the draft law put forward by the Minister for Culture, which made everyone think twice and even made it clear that we were just discussing the matter among the rapporteurs and that we came up with a good way of taking note of and incorporating the concerns that had been raised in committee, both objectively and properly. It was beautiful and it was good and it is the way to do it in a democracy. That is why we welcome the fact that the Minister took the lead after the delegation, so that the bill we hope to adopt shortly will be a law that also takes into account all the considerations that need to be taken into account in the processing of citizens' data by a modern society and that citizens should, of course, have access to it free of charge. So, with those words, we in the Danish People's Party can endorse the proposal made by the Minister for Culture and with the subsequent commitments to keep an eye on it, which has also been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151435	You're welcome, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151443	I will be relatively brief. We also support the bill and would like to congratulate the government on having tabled the proposal. As far as I remember, it was the Prime Minister who, even shortly after his accession, launched this idea, and when you read the proposal today, you may wonder why it has not been this way in the past, so that of course you had the right to an insight into your own case and also an insight that does not require you to have money in your pocket. So we can support that and we would like to commend the government for bringing the proposal forward today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151527	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151538	Thank you. This bill has clearly come in the wake of the Prime Minister's apologies to the godhavn boys, and it was time for them to have that apology. Therefore, in the SF, we acknowledge the government's good intentions to make filing laws better so that we ensure that previously placed children have the right to gain insight into their own personal information without limitation in relation to payment, permissions or the age and type of archives. We owe it to children previously placed as good-port boys that when failure and abuse are committed in the state's custody, the citizens concerned must at least have the right to have full access to their case. It is said that time heals all wounds, but for the many previously placed children with a complex and problematic childhood behind them there are missing crucial pieces to the total puzzle in their lives: Why was I there? When was I there? Are my own memories compatible with the file? The traces of their childhood have sat on their minds forever, but the physical traces in terms of documents about their cause have often just been thrown out or disappeared at the same time, and that is obviously not right. We want to ensure that children placed in the past are aware of their own history, and that is why the draft law is also just a small step in a positive direction, in which we ensure, in principle, that everyone has access to their own information. The organisation Danske Archiver has described in their consultation answer how this bill will not necessarily make it easier for citizens to find archived information about themselves, and therefore it is important for me to say that, unfortunately, with this bill, we do not provide the information to previously placed, as we would like. We don't want to stick people in the eye. As I said, much material has already been discarded with or without legal basis in the current Archive Act, and furthermore, the Organisation of Danske Archives points out that there are many gaps in the current law in relation to both the obligation to deliver and the obligation to register, which means that citizens seeking access to their files are discriminated against in relation to the management of archives by the municipality concerned. If you have been placed in a self-serving institution, there is no obligation to preserve. In addition, there are major differences between the municipalities: 50 municipalities have created their own public archives, 16 municipalities hand over to the National Archives, while the last 32 municipalities do not register their archives • maybe they are located in cellars, maybe they are on ceilings. So there is a big difference between the registration of their data by the municipalities. And it is also for these reasons that there is a need for a thorough, but in fact also thoroughly revised, new Archive Act. The current Archive Act is 17 years old, and in the course of time it has become obsolete due, among other things, to the fact that: the increasing digitisation that is in society, and indeed also because of the Data Protection Act. That is why we are pleased that we have now agreed to launch the drafting of a mandate in order to get a more detailed discussion on a new law on archives. We owe it to these kids and young people so they can get smarter on their own as well. We look forward to that cooperation and work, and with these comments the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151914	Thank you very much to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. There are no brief comments. And so I welcome Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110151928	Now I have the difficult choice, whether to repeat everything that has been said or not to do so, I think I will not. We can also support the proposal. And we think it is a step in the right direction, as has been said following the debate on the goodport boys. However, it is only a small step in the right direction, and that is why I would like to vote in favour of what others have said, especially the last rapporteur, that we are very much looking forward to a fundamental review of archive legislation. And I hope that, in addition to the times she has said it, the Minister will also repeat it here from the Parliament's platform, in other words that it is something that the government will set out to do. Because this is something that takes a long time, in that it is also something that has to take into account the whole digital development that we have experienced. But the Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152026	Thank you. Welcome to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152032	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Here, too, I am a substitute, and I am a substitute for our cultural rapporteur, Birgitte Bergman. The main purpose of the law amending the Archive Act is to give citizens the right to access their own personal data, as several have mentioned, with emphasis on their own, when these appear from documents handed over to archives. Today, it is indeed necessary to apply for authorisation, but we are changing that now, and it is very good that we are now changing the law in relation to introducing a right for all citizens to have insight into their own personal cases. It is intended that the right of access under the Archive Act should apply to all types of cases where a person wants to know his own information. It will therefore cover not only children's and placement cases but, for example, children's and placement cases. Also divorce cases, paternity cases, medical records, etc. This applies to cases submitted to public archives and certain private archives. And then the court is made free of charge. Because it's important to know your own story. There have been too many cases of children who have not had the right to an insight into their own history. The tracks have ended without a trace. Unfortunately, they still do, because there are still challenges that are not included in this bill, among others. the right of access shall apply only to information submitted to public archives. There is no obligation to preserve the self-serving institutions. This means, for example, that it is quite random whether archives from the country's many self-serving 24-hour institutions have been preserved and even more so whether they have been handed over to public archives. State archives are subject to registration, but not to municipal archives. Only in municipalities that have voluntarily chosen to create both the municipal and the voluntary choice to make their archives searchable can citizens and researchers, for example. See what has been preserved, and thus what can be seen as a citizen or a researcher. In the wake of the GDPR, a committee was set up in 2018 to assess the need for the Archive Law Audit. The work was brought to a standstill because of parliamentary elections and change of government. We take a positive view of the draft law, but strongly recommend to the Minister that he resume his cooperation on the basis of the terms of reference with a view to further revising the draft law and that the Minister responds to the consensus that I understand there has been at a rapporteur's meeting that this draft law is not sufficient, but a step in the right direction so that citizens can get back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152243	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. I want to know whether anyone wants to be the rapporteur for the new citizens in this matter or for that matter the Liberal Alliance. That is not the case. Then the floor has been passed on to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152302	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their comments. I find myself in the same dilemma as Mr. Søren Søndergaard, but I believe that I will choose the opposite way and yet repeat, so that it is clear that the government's entry into this bill is very much in line with what has otherwise been put forward. For the overall purpose of the bill is, as I said, to give all citizens the right to see their own personal data when they are on archives. A right to own information is something that everyone should have. Today, as a citizen, you do not have a right to see your own information. We must apply for a derogation and, although in the vast majority of cases there is a derogation, I think it is wrong that we should apply for what concerns ourselves. It is particularly important that people who have been injured have been subjected to abuse or have simply been removed from the family which usually gives a story of where they come from, also guaranteeing a right of access to own personal data. But, of course, the court must apply to everyone. These citizens will not have to go through the extra effort and humiliation if they are refused by having to apply for dispensation. Unfortunately, the proposed right of access here will not be of benefit to everyone. In the past, the discarding of cases and the absence of files means that, unfortunately, many citizens will still be able to see that information and archives in their case are not in the archives at all. I would like to express my regret on behalf of the government, but unfortunately this is something that we cannot change. However, this does not change the fact that the citizens whose cases are actually in the archives still have the right to see their own information with this case. It will be free of charge to get the archives authorities to find the information. Today, the National Archives has a duty to guide citizens, but not to find cases for free. In the municipal archives, the service is already free of charge, but here we ensure that it can never be a payment wall that stands in the way of a citizen getting help, with the result that we prevent a distortion, relationship with who gets insight. The archives can also be located on a large number of archives handed over by private donors. Several private institutions and organisations have carried out tasks in the field of welfare, and information from these institutions is therefore also proposed to be covered by the right of access. A right of access should not be restricted in these cases, because there should be equal rights of access for citizens who have had cases with private institutions and citizens who have had cases with public institutions. Nowadays, a right of access already applies to the type of archives covered by the scope of the Data Protection Regulation. This provision is proposed together for a joint chapter with the new provision on the right of access. It is not intended to change the right of access to archives covered by the Data Protection Regulation, but the provision has been revised to ensure a clearer legal position. That was many words to say that with this amendment of law we guarantee a civil right, but that work on the Archive Act is far from complete. As many of the rapporteurs have mentioned, I would also like to confirm the consensus which I believe emerged at a rapporteur's meeting after the previous speech, which has also been mentioned, where it has just emerged that the Archive Act has not been revised since 2003. And it is quite generally made for a more analog world, which gives a very general need to conduct the Archive Act up to date in relation to both the technological developments, but also to look at what we can do with the many different archives that are around. There may be other issues in the law that need to be revisited, but, as I also said at the rapporteur's meeting, it will require detailed and thorough preparatory work in order for us to also hit the spot and do it properly so that we can have a modern archive law that fits into the digital world. I am aware of the fact that an archive committee has been set up in the past, which has also come to a conclusion, but I believe that this work is too narrow in relation to what we have been discussing. So, of course, as soon as Corona and everything else leave us time and effort, I will continue that dialogue with the rapporteurs, in other words, the discussion on how we can initiate a more comprehensive review of the Archive Act. This is essential because these archives are basically about us all as a society, but also as individuals. That is where we deserve transparency, just as we are striving for it in all our other public actions. With those comments, I look forward to the committee reading, and I hope that this legislative proposal can be a forerunner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152816	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152820	Comment and comment I would just like to thank the Minister for having given this assurance in this Chamber that, when we are over the worst coronat growing, work is being undertaken to have a mandate for a thorough review of the Archive Act. We are very pleased with that commitment, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152842	Well, thank you, and thank you for the good discussion. I look forward to working together on both the terms of reference, but also on the drafting of a new Archive Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152853	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for today's work. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152913	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Sea of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110152933	Thank you. The President has, of course, read out the title of the bill, so I would like to say what the purpose of the bill is, and that is to make a number of changes to the financial legislation aimed at increasing consumer protection and investor protection, as well as ensuring enhanced and targeted supervision, among other things. the sustainability, money laundering and payment area. Unfortunately, history has shown us that there is still a need to ensure that this legislation is up to date, because we are still seeing incidents where consumer protection and supervision of financial actors are inadequate. In addition to consumer protection and supervision in relation to money laundering and the payment area, the draft law provides for the possibility for investors to compare the sustainability of products and the corporate handling of this issue. This includes monitoring compliance by financial actors with information obligations on environmental, social and managerial issues related to investment and advisory processes. This task is to be carried out by the FSA. Not least in a transition phase to renewable energy, greener solutions and sustainability, it has to be said that these tools come in very conveniently. Whitewashing is a black chapter in the financial world and helps to undermine the economy. The new tools are to adjust the supervision of the Erhvervsstyrelsen (Erhvervsstyrelsen) and the Lawyers' Council so that the authorities will have better opportunities to cooperate with the supervisory authorities of the EU and EEA countries. In addition, a ban is introduced on the redemption of anonymous prepaid cards issued in third countries in order to ensure that the cards are not misused for, for example, terrorist financing. In the area of payments, the FSA is given the opportunity to monitor effectively the fees for cross-border payments in the EU. The aim here is to ensure that there are low charges for cross-border payments in the EU and that there is greater transparency for consumers in such charges. In addition, greater flexibility will be created to lay down detailed rules on charges for payment instruments covered by the so-called subscription model, i.e.: The dankort. This means, in practice, that many small businesses in the future will be able to receive the Dankort cheaper. All in all, we in the Socialist Group believe that this is a very good legislative proposal, which we hope will run quickly through the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110153226	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110153247	The draft law, which we are going to discuss today, contains many changes to financial legislation. This is a so-called single legislative proposal in the financial field, and it is mainly a series of directives that need to be implemented. The draft law contains 71 amendments to 10 different laws, which have only quite a peripheral relationship. This has also been criticised during the consultation phase. Such a large draft law increases the likelihood of overimplementation, and we in the Left are not in favour of that. That was also why, when we had government power, we set up an over-implementation committee with eight ministers to ensure that Denmark did not over-implement the laws of the European Union. The present government can learn a lot from this. Back to the substance of the bill. The aim of the changes in the financial sector is to increase consumer and investor protection and to ensure enhanced targeted supervision, inter alia. the sustainability, money laundering and payment areas. It's all good purpose, which it's hard to disagree with. I will confine myself to commenting on some of the amendments that are essential to the legislative proposal, as time does not in any way allow me to comment on them all, although I would like to. The term 'laundering' must be said to have filled a great deal in the debate over the last few years. Unfortunately, there have been far too many general examples of combating money laundering and terrorist financing of international tasks, often benefiting from cross-border cooperation. Therefore, it is important that the Laundering Act contains rules on the possibility of cooperating with foreign supervisory authorities. Today, the Laundry Act provides for the FSA and the Gambling Authority's ability to cooperate with other authorities in other EU and EEA countries. However, there are no similar rules for the Danish Business Administration or for the Council of Lawyers. The draft law will allow the Danish Business Authority and the Lawyers' Council to cooperate with the supervisory authorities in other countries with regard to the supervision of auditors, real estate agents, art dealers and lawyers under the Laundering Act. The Left backs the adjustment of the framework of the law on money laundering. In order to combat money laundering effectively, countries need to unite on a common front. We do not want and must not accept money laundering. The bill also ensures better conditions for consumers. The draft law allows the FSA to monitor effectively the charges for cross-border payments in the EU. The aim is to ensure that there are low charges for cross-border payments in the EU and that there is greater transparency in relation to charges for consumers. As the rapporteur for consumers in the Left, I am pleased that there will be greater transparency. Another key element is the introduction of a ban on the redemption of anonymous prepaid cards issued in so-called third countries. It is important to ensure that Denmark and the rest of the European Union are not involved in terrorist financing, for example. As a starting point, the Left can agree to the bill, but we have a few questions that we will have to ask in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110153614	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110153629	I would almost allow myself to say that I was just about to need my truck certificate when I had to carry all this bill down to the Parliamentary Chamber today. I think it is quite a crunch that the Minister of Industry has sent in here for discussion in the Danish Parliament today. It is impressive that you can get people to write 360 pages about the law on payments, the law on money laundering and the law on capital markets. We assume it's soaked. We assume the Minister is in charge of his officials. Otherwise, it will come to light in the process where, of course, before the third reading there is an opportunity to put some committee questions on it too. After all, the Danish People's Party agrees with the aims outlined by the government with the proposed bill, and they consist of making a number of changes to financial legislation, such as: can increase the legal position of consumers. It can also provide a higher level of investor protection for people who, for example, invest in international investment products. There will be a strengthening of supervision in the area of sustainability, money laundering and payment, and there the Danish People's Party will say that in particular the last two areas we consider to be important and sustaining. This isn't so much about sustainability compared to this. I would almost say that the size of the bill alone means that almost half a rain forest has been smoked. Sustainability is, of course, something that needs to be managed, but we must also remember to do so wisely. The draft law strengthens investors' ability to compare investment products, and the FSA will be better placed to monitor effectively that all actors comply with the information obligations relating to environmental, social and management issues. It is, of course, part of the EU directive on ESG factors and so on, and that is also what is taken into account in relation to the advisory and investment processes. So it is quite reasonable that we should get these things strengthened. In the area of money laundering, which is one of the most important issues in our financial legislation here in Denmark in recent years, the framework for supervision by the Danish Business Administration and the Council of Ministers will be adjusted so that the authorities will have better opportunities to cooperate with other countries' supervisory authorities in EEA countries and, of course, the EU. It is also one of the places where, in the view of the Danish People's Party, if we look back a little, we could have made better use of our international cooperation, for example with Estonian supervisory authorities in relation to foreign banks in Estonia etc. So there are some places where things can be done better. With this bill, we're gonna create a better opportunity to carry out these inspections, including cross-border ones. Then, as the rapporteur of the Left said, there is a ban on the redemption of anonymous prepaid cards issued in third countries, and this is one of the places where examples have been found of the possibility of financing terrorism and of transferring money from one country to another. It makes good sense for us to put an end to the possibility that has existed so far. Then there is the whole area of payment with the FSA, which will be able to monitor charges for cross-border payments within the framework of EU cooperation. After all, we know that consumer legislation in Denmark is always awake, I had almost said, and so is the Consumer Ombudsman and others, and we also keep abreast of how the fee structure works and how creative the various issuers are in relation to putting new fees and expenses on card holders, etc. Finally, I would like to say that I am a little puzzled about something when we have to find the hairs in the soup. This first reading has actually been postponed; I think it is a month since we should have had the first reading. Nevertheless, there is in fact a part of the legislative proposal that is still in the consultation phase, and that means that at first reading we are actually legalising some things that have not been completed in relation to having been in consultation. At least that is what the speech says. There we would like the Minister to briefly clarify whether some of the things are involved, I would have liked to say, in relation to having reservations and other things. However, the Danish People's Party is largely in favour of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154134	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154145	Thank you. I think we are many rapporteurs and probably also a minister in the Chamber today who is very busy these days, so I will try not to make it unnecessarily long. Thank you for the examination of the very, very many pages of legislation for the previous rapporteurs. It is very sensible for the FSA to have the opportunity to monitor cross-border payments more effectively in the EU, so that we also ensure that no unnecessarily high fees are paid. Then there is the issue of money laundering, which is very serious, where the challenge of prepaid debit cards from third countries is addressed, because examples have been found that it is a source of funding for terrorism. It is, of course, very, very sensible that it should be addressed. In addition, there is also the possibility of more effective supervision of the sustainability area by the FSA, which is also very good, so that we increase transparency there and so that we can navigate it. I want to stop here, but I want to say that it looks reasonable. Radicals support the bill, and I should also like to welcome it from the SF, which unfortunately did not have the opportunity to be in the Chamber, and to say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154314	Thank you. I would like to welcome Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten-De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154325	Thank you. It is, after all, a major legislative proposal that is in many directions, which, it has to be said, sometimes characterises the legislative proposals in the field of industry. You gotta keep your tongue straight in your mouth. So let's take it from the end. The price model we have today means that small firms with low average amounts pay a relatively high price for payments with the Dankort, whereas companies with high average amounts pay a relatively low price. I understand from the draft law that, in practice, the amendment of the law means that small businesses will be able to use the Dankort cheaper in future. This is good for both consumers and small businesses, and it is good for cheap payment solutions in general now that, if you have to be a little bold, the market for alternative, expensive and questionable payment models is rapidly evolving. The Enhedslisten welcomes this amendment to the law, and we welcome the money laundering component, where the bill aims to counteract the significant risk of money laundering and terrorist financing associated with anonymous prepaid cards issued in third countries. I understand from the draft law that there will be a ban on redemption, cash withdrawals and transactions for over EUR 50 with such payment instruments, but what I do not quite understand is why payment with these so-called anonymous prepaid cards is not completely banned, because that is what the directive does up to. The Enhedslisten also welcomes the last element of the bill, which is about strengthening investors' opportunities to compare the sustainability of products and companies' approach to sustainability. It is good that the FSA is given the power to monitor effectively whether, during the investment and advisory processes, it leaves its information obligations on social and environmental aspects. That is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154525	Thank you, and the next in line is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party, one of today's regular guests. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154545	Thank you for the floor. Yes, this is a proper round: a number of different changes, mainly technical, relating to financial legislation are simply brought together in L 12. A large part of the proposals that lie there are adjustments in relation to the implementation of both the fourth and fifth money laundering directives, and I have read in particular to identify possible alarm bells. Luckily, not so many of them called. I would just like to highlight a few of the things that I think are really important in this bill, because otherwise we will be here for a very long time, that is, if we are going to go through it all. Among other things: a new provision, Section 5a, in which redemption of payments made with anonymous prepaid cards from third countries and their redemption by cash withdrawals or payments via the Internet are prohibited in Denmark, is inserted. The use of anonymous prepaid cards from third countries is not very common in Denmark, fortunately. However, we are pleased that this will be a ban and that this is not a solution for the banks to administer. This was proposed in the first draft law, and fortunately it was amended in the context of the hearing. Article 64 extends the jurisdiction of the Lawyer's Board to also supervise lawyers established in another EU country who practise law in Denmark. And with the new section 64a, the Lawyer's Board's reactions in relation to supervision under the Laundering Act, including police reporting, must be published on the Lawyer's Board's website. It then requires, I would like to note, that the authorities intervene when there are such notifications. Unfortunately, we are sometimes asked that this does not happen. That said, Conservatives support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154727	Thank you. I would like to ask again whether anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the New Civil and Liberal Alliance? There isn't. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110154742	Thank you. I could, but I'm not sure they'd feel covered in with my speech. Thank you for your comments. It is good to know that there is at least one of the professional rapporteurs with a truck certificate. It may be useful if we have such a mop boy as the one we are discussing here on the agenda. Overall, it can be said that the aim of the draft law is to implement a number of measures which strengthen the supervision of, among other things, the payment area, the sustainable financing area and the money laundering area. At the same time, the draft law aims to support better consumer and investor protection in the financial field. With the bill, the FSA gets among other things: the possibility of making cross-border payments more effective in the EU. It must ensure low charges for cross-border payments and ensure that there is a high degree of transparency for consumers about such charges. The aim of the draft law is also to provide greater flexibility in relation to the possibility of laying down detailed rules on the charging of fees for providers of certain payment instruments. With the increased flexibility in relation to the fees paid by businesses, this will include: to be able to set a price model based on a percentage of the transaction amount, which will be of particular benefit to the many smaller shops. With the bill, we are also implementing a series of measures to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The redemption of anonymous prepaid cards issued in third countries shall be prohibited from being at the forefront of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing associated with the use of those cards. In addition, we strengthen the framework for the cooperation of the Danish Business Authority and the Lawyer Council with supervisory authorities in other EU countries, both in relation to money laundering inspections in Denmark and in relation to money laundering inspections abroad. The aim of this is to strengthen cross-border supervisory cooperation. Finally, some clarifications and adjustments have been found to the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. In the area of sustainability, the FSA will be able to monitor more effectively the compliance of financial undertakings with the so-called disclosure regulation. The Disclosure Regulation requires information on environmental, social and managerial conditions to be provided by financial undertakings in relation to investment and advisory processes. The aim is to increase transparency in the area of sustainable financing, making it easier to compare the sustainability of products and companies' approach to sustainability. This should help to promote the green transition by strengthening investors' ability to invest sustainably. Then I would just like to make one comment to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is asking whether there is still something in the hearing now that we are discussing here. Now the rapporteur himself said that it had been postponed a little, and I can only say that the hearing is over and a consultation note should also have been sent to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. That's what I've been enlightened just a few minutes ago. With those words, I would like to thank you for your positive reception. And I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110155105	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110155122	The debate is open. I want to know if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, rapporteur. There isn't. Then we postpone his contribution and move on to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, who is regionally located on Bornholm, from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110155202	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to say that I'm also talking to Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen's name. I may not be able to do that, but he would probably have talked warmly about rural areas, and of course we in the Left do that too. I would like to start by saying that I welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately, due to other meetings in this House, have no opportunity to take part in the debate on this statement. And thank you for your statement to the Minister. I think it is a statement in which we have come up very well. And I would like to congratulate the Minister for spending so much time in the statement on getting the definitions straight, because the different terms mean a lot, including this one, and they should at least be put in place. I take the view that of course the Minister of Business always speaks very warmly about our rural areas, and I very much agree with that, but I cannot say that this is the case all around the government. And since the government is a collective one, there is, of course, an obligation as Minister of Business to penetrate its colleagues. The statement also contains an excellent list of the initiatives that have helped to keep our rural areas under control during the pandemic. And there I am delighted, as one who is concerned with rural development, that the Folketing has collectively taken responsibility for ensuring that our rural areas have also got through fairly well. Thank you, everyone! But, of course, it may come later in the debate here I miss saying where you want to go. I remember that when the Minister was a private member of the Things here, the Minister was a very strong advocate of the Social Democratic bid for an infrastructure plan, so before the elections and since then we have heard nothing. And we all agreed before the elections that taximeter reform was one of the prerequisites for ensuring that we could maintain and expand our youth education in rural areas; nothing is happening here either. We agreed that transport and the services offered to citizens in the form of transport services were not sufficient either. There should have been an evaluation of our taxi law this autumn; it has been postponed indefinitely. And when we come around the country as a committee, we also hear that there is simply no coherence in our passenger transport in rural areas and in our islands. And in a moment, a large majority here in Things will probably make it even more expensive to drive your own car. It is therefore not something that will benefit our rural areas if you have nothing else to replace. But, of course, I also hope and expect that, in this Parliament, when a new agreement is drawn up on car taxes, account will be taken of the fact that there are some people in rural areas who are very dependent on being able to come from A to B. The choice has also been made in the financial bill to remove the broadband pool, which is completely incomprehensible since approx. 88,000 addresses still do not meet the conditions for the goal we have set together. There are a great many who have applied, and I can say that this year the pool was 100 million. kr., but there are actually applications for 220 million. kr. Both our colleges and our vocational schools have challenges filling the classes in our rural areas, and that is because the number of children is falling. And as the municipalities gather more and more pupils in fewer schools, the government actively chooses not to comply with the agreement on the couplement rate, as more money was added to the public schools earlier this year, despite the fact that many of the free schools are the closest and thus the most attractive basic school offer. The report also wonders why we are moving from country to city, but now that there is going to be too far to primary school and too far to high schools and vocational schools, and when public transport is not linked and the promised social democratic infrastructure plan is waiting for it, it is in fact the government that is helping to push a population into the larger cities, because people in rural areas also want quality of life. There is simply a need for an active policy to develop our rural areas so as to be better able to attract and make oneself attractive to settlements. The previous government has come a long way, and I had hoped that the glove would have been taken up, but that has simply not been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110155631	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. There are no brief remarks, and Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen made us the great honour of taking part in the debate. He is welcome on the platform now, and he comes from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110155649	Thank you, President. I'm sorry I didn't make it down here until now, but it went so fast in this Chamber that I didn't make it. I'd like to start with a story from real life. As some of you know and may also hear, I live on Lolland, down in the southeast corner, in the middle of the lovely nature with fields, forests and good neighbors. When my wife and I moved to Frejlev 36 years ago, we had a kindergarten, we had a leisure home, we had a primary school, community hall, sports hall, cooperative dairy, a grocery store and no less than two utility associations within 4 km's driving distance. It was a small well-functioning society with approx. 700 souls. Since then, much has changed. We still have the assembly house and sports hall, but almost everything else is closed and off. We have a private kindergarten, and until a year ago we also had a Bruges in Kettinge, but with a turnover of 12 million. kr. Coop didn't think it was profitable, and then they shut it down per year. November 1st last year. But we were locally very upset about this, and based on our city-slave, where I myself am on the board, a process started that ended with a collection of 1 million. kr. for the purchase of the old Bruges. The use was rebuilt for approx. 0,5 million kr., and pr. October 1st this year, a good month ago, opened a grocery store for big celebrations in the newly rebuilt premises. As I said, it was rebuilt for 0.5 million. kr. Since we had obtained the first million, we went with optimism to the bank to get a credit union loan for the conversion, but we got a no. We then tried in another institute, but with the same result: a blank no. Despite the fact that we as shareholders had taken on the risk of the outermost million, the answer was no. The local carpenter doesn't understand anything. He can borrow 5 million on his smooth face. kr. to renovate a house on Amager, but we get a no to borrow 0.5 million. kr. to a large well-run store in Kettinge on Lolland. The reaction is clear: we find out something ourselves, we can't count on the credit union, and we can't trust anyone but ourselves. I am sure that you who sit in this Chamber know similar stories from other parts of the country. It merely shows that we need to get the spoon in the other hand and start to create more real equality between the country and the city. As the report also shows, there are many areas that require political attention, care and action in our rural areas, because the trend of urbanisation continues. We continue to lump ourselves together in the cities, and the small villages are struggling with empty and sometimes disgusting homes. We're struggling with shop deaths the way we were close to where I live. Unemployment is increasing, and the hospital, the doctor and the educational institutions are getting longer and longer, and even the police can seem very far away. This is a tedious development and, moreover, a development that may be reinforced by the Corona crisis, but it is above all a development that is the consequence of municipal reform and decades of centralisation. Now we are really seeing what this means: that the small municipalities have been neglected over and over again and that more and more state jobs have been relocated into the cities and almost systematically closed down public institutions and education in the province. It's stuck structuralally. This has made it difficult to lure doctors to settle there, for example. Now we can feel it. But that does not mean that development cannot be reversed at all. But we have to get going now, and there are many challenges that need to be raised so that we can make the wheel turn in the right direction. One is the possibility of borrowing for a dwelling in the areas where there is longer for the neighbor. Families and businesses and others experience repeated refusal of housing loans if they wish to move to an outlying area. Entrepreneurship and residential dreams are punctured solely because of geography. This condition increases the inequality between the city and the country, contributes to the distortion of our country and delays the necessary growth and development in our rural areas, which we are all cheering for. I don't want it to be like that. The problem of very limited loan opportunities in the municipalities where the neighbour is a little longer is not a new one. We hear over and over again, among other things. from private individuals wishing to settle in rural areas, that loan opportunities are difficult, whether you want to buy new ones or build for them. We are also hearing it from the business community, which must recognise that lending opportunities are a brake on good, healthy and necessary business development and entrepreneurial dreams outside the round postal numbers. Indeed, previous governments have already set in motion studies to dig into the financial structures that are helping to create the distortions between the country and the city that are hampering development. The financial sector rejects the problem, but the reality is different. Stories of rejection and broken home dreams are many; we all know about them, but that is obviously not enough. And that is why I am pleased that the Minister for Industry has now set up a system so that we can have a comprehensive overview of the trend of a system where citizens and others can report on refusals so that we can get the experience together. It will help a good solution on the way, that we know the extent and that we know what the many refusals are due to and whether there is a pattern in the many refusals of a loan for housing and occupation. First, we need to understand the problem and then we can find a viable solution. For although I am proud of the community and the willingness to cooperate in my own village that has unfolded, among other things. When we went together to save money to borrow for a local store, we have to solve the general problem of loans. And that is why I am pleased that the Minister of Industry has put the initial exercises in the lake. However, the problem of loans is only part of the challenges facing rural areas. We also need to look at access to health, police, education and so on. The list is long, so yes, there are still a whole host of challenges we owe to finding solutions to in our rural areas. There's no such thing as a quick fix. However, as the report also shows, there are also several areas where progress is being made. Developments are there. This is progressing in rural areas, and I think this is also due to the good cooperation between the parties and the rapporteurs on rural areas. I see that we, as rapporteurs, are gathering together and constructively discussing rural areas and islands with each other and with the organisations representing rural areas and islands. I would like to sign for that, and I hope we can continue to do so, so that we can achieve even more together and get even more momentum in the development process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160455	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160458	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. Before the world went off, we all had an appointment on the calendar. It said that we should look at the revision of the law of plans. The Minister had called for some discussions. I think there were many of us who were looking forward to that very much. Of course, they've been shot here in the first place. But when the Minister calls a new meeting at some point where we have to set an agenda for this, is the Social Democrats ready to give our municipalities even greater powers over their own municipalities so that they can help set a development rather than sit and decide everything centrally in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160539	I think that this discussion on the law of plans will probably never be over. In fact, I am concerned that what we have already decided to relax the law on plans has actually given way out there in reality. That is why I think it is very good that we have looked through how the changes we have made have resulted, and I think we should look at that before we start thinking about new ones, so that we first clean up what we have done before we start new ones. However, I am always willing to discuss a basis for ensuring the development of municipalities and rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160614	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160614-2	Thank you. I consider that to be a half-pronged hand. Because we often hear out there, even when we come around as committees, whether it is the small islands or whether it is rural areas, that there are some key rules that stop both business development and settlement. And if we are to pull citizens out of the cities again and get them out into rural areas where there is a need for labour where there is a need to fill up our schools and day care centres, then there must also be something to move on to. If there are no jobs, if there are no attractive homes, then people will not come. Things are evolving and I am quite sure that each municipality has a greater overview of what it takes to get a better settlement in order to have a better business development than we will ever have in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160700	It is quite true that there are some issues. To take some islands: there are, after all, some islands that are not larger than they have beach protection lines virtually everywhere, so there is no chance that you can make a development that can ensure that people can live there. There are several examples of this, I believe, that the development that we want and some measures that we are really saying yes to are being slowed down by the fact that we have also taken some other decisions that slow down those things. There I think we need to discuss what should be the first course of action. Do we want people to live there and to live a life, or do we want there not to be a bench? That is something we must decide about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160735	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, and then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110160754	Thank you. I can only agree with what my Socialist colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has to say. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen said about the very good cooperation we have in the Rural Committee, fortunately, all the rapporteurs between and with the Minister, whom we also know is very fond of rural areas. And whether a government is red or blue, it is often the government that can hinder rural development. At least that is not something I have seen the individual rapporteurs have been involved in. As a citizen of a rural area, I am very keen to develop rural areas and islands and also to ensure that there are many more people who realise how great it is to live out there, where it is most beautiful, and to see everything that small communities can do that they cannot do in cities. We care a little more about each other, and we also associate with people with whom we feel very different from people we would never choose as friends ourselves, but with whom we need to have a good relationship, so that our society can be a nice little place. I remember the last time we had to discuss the government's rural statement. I remember how I and all the other talented rural rapporteurs had prepared our speeches and that we were ready to debate the rural statement in the Chamber, and then the then Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen went up and made choices just before we were about to debate our rural statement. This is not going to happen today, because our Prime Minister is more busy slaughtering mink and jobs in rural areas. On the one hand, the government acknowledges here in the rural statement that agriculture is an important industry in rural areas, but right now, on the other hand, the government is slaughtering not only a lot of mink but also a lot of jobs in rural areas. There are some 6 000 jobs in the industry, most of which are located in rural areas. These are people who have little chance of getting other jobs, because it may well be that you can give them a help package here and now, and it may well be that they can be converted, but frankly, if you are working on a mink farm on Læsø, it is possible that you can be retrained to something else, but what does it help when jobs are not on Læsø or elsewhere in rural areas? That is why we just need to pay close attention to the fact that what is happening right now is something that hits wildly hard in rural areas, so I hope that within a few hours the government will find a good solution to the problem we are currently facing here. I remember that at one point Realdania did a study that showed that 25%. of all Danes actually wanted to live closer to nature, but what prevented them was their work. They didn't want to get too far for work. Then came the coronapandemic, and it showed us that it was actually possible for a lot of people to work from home. People wandered to their summer houses. I remember talking to a user in a summer house area, and he said that since the closure in March, every week in March and April had generated more revenue in his use than the Easter holiday week, where everyone goes to their summer houses, does. That's amazing. That's great. In other words, we can live our lives far away from the major cities, and many of us can even work digitally. But it takes just one thing. There is, of course, one area in which we must not swing the knife of savings so that this can be done, and this is the area which, funny enough, is not mentioned in the statement: we must never save on the broadband pool. I also remember how the applications for the broadband pool turned out to be twice what the pool actually contained. This means that, logically, the broadband pool should be expanded as the need is there, but instead the government closed the broadband pool. As most people here know, the Danish People's Party has been fighting for years for the transport equality of the islands. It should not cost more to sail to an island than it costs to drive the same route on the road. By the way, it doesn't cost anything to ride a road. It doesn't cost anything to go on a road either. As part of the summer package, the government decided that there should be free transport to the islands for pedestrians and cyclists. We in the Danish People's Party will strongly appeal for it to be continued now, so it applies year-round, of course. Another thing is that the cottage rental also came to suffer very hard, since it feeds on many especially German tourists. That is why the government also decided in the summer package to have a base allowance of DKK 60 000. We want to make this permanent, so that even more people take holidays in Denmark in the future, and so that we can create even more life in our rural areas and in the professions associated with vacation rental. There are also several good initiatives here in the rural statement that we in the Danish People's Party look forward to working with the government on. This is among other things. the creation of eight tax centres around the country. We're appealing that these times should be a little further away from the Alpha Way than what we saw with the last relocation. Instead of lying in the larger provincial towns, it could actually be fantastic, because when you set up eight new tax centres that do not have personal customer contact, but more telephone and digital, there is no limit to where they can lie in the country, that is, unless it is one of those black holes that the government does not want to cover with the broadband pool. But otherwise it would be fantastic if those tax centres were far further away from the major provincial towns. We also look forward in the Danish People's Party to cooperate with the government on the 20 new local police units. And then I am really glad that we in the Danish People's Party were included in the agreement on the Landsbygningsfonden, that general housing should be built on the islands. We look forward to seeing the result of this. In the Danish People's Party we hope that we can also work with the government to ensure good digital infrastructure throughout the country as well as better access to the islands all year round, so there are even more people who want to live and live out there where it is most beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110161604	Thank you to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. And then it says, "Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen on my list of speakers, but I have been so many times in the Radical Left that I can see that it is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Zenia Stampe It's not me). I am absolutely convinced that Mrs Zenia Stampe will be able to make an excellent speech. Well, then we move on to the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110161652	Thank you for the floor. A lot of nice things have been said here today about our rural areas, and I also think we should do everything we can to talk them out so that people can understand that it is valuable to live in rural areas and want to do so. However, we will probably not avoid the fact that our rural areas are challenged, as the rural policy statement also shows, there are declining population numbers, declining numbers of jobs, lack of investment, training places, etc. We all know the challenges. For the SF there is a clear inequality agenda here, where the differences between city and country are growing, and it goes without saying that this is not something that we think is good for our country, and unfortunately there is a risk that this distortion will grow even more with the Corona crisis, which may end up eliminating jobs, destroying tourism and moving even more towards cities where job availability is greatest. But what can we do? Yes, in the SF we have some bids, it is not an exhaustive list, but we think that the first and most important thing is to sort out the borrowing situation in rural areas. When a teacher couple cannot be allowed to borrow for a house in Vorbasse and when we have examples of e.g. Eight companies that I have recently received from the mayor of Langeland, who cannot be allowed to borrow to expand their business on Langeland, will, of course, continue the distortion. Because if you cannot settle, if you cannot be allowed to create jobs, the areas close down and turn themselves off over time. In the SF, we have presented our proposals for solutions. We still want a special mortgage institution to ensure loan opportunities for companies and citizens who today find it difficult to borrow to move to or run rural businesses, because without businesses and without the circulation of housing there is no life. In Norway, a similar solution has been found, where the municipalities assess both the income ratio and the repayment ratio, so that loans can be secured, and if the Norwegians can, surely we can. Another place where I think we should do more is all the ghost houses we find in rural areas. After all, no one wants to live in an area where there are empty and eyeballs, and it is estimated that around the whole country there are more than 100,000 dilapidated houses that can be demolished with advantage. I myself have recently been to Læsø and seen how nice the island appears, and heard how, with funds from the village pool, you have made sure that you could tear down houses and create some green areas on the site. I think it's a shame that it's being set up to cut down on that pool. There is no doubt that you may have to balance supply and demand, and there is the demolition pool a very good thing. Thirdly, we must ensure that there is a proper Internet in rural areas. Without that, you cannot create home jobs, you cannot participate in distance learning, nor can you run a company, and from this point of view, I think it is incomprehensible that the government has killed the broadband pool in its draft budget. It is simply not true when the Minister of Finance says that the pool is no longer needed. 342 applications were received this year compared with 125 applications last year. So it shows that there's still a lot of need for that pool. 9,000 addresses have been searched and twice the size of the pot has been searched. This shows that it will be very, very important to secure in future financial law negotiations. Then I think that there is a place where we can do more and which is about education. SF has previously proposed a relocation plan for training, so that we achieve a better geographical balance in the training offer, but also because experience shows that if you train locally, you will also stay behind and find a job. When young people first move towards the major educational towns, yes, they do not return, because of course they find a job there, and they also have time to find a girlfriend in the time they read. It is not because I ignore that there are We have also got amazing, exciting experiences with cheap and free ferry tickets from the summer packages. I think this is important knowledge for the future, it certainly shows that price matters and that there may be every reason to go further with the road principle. We will probably also have a police agreement with several local police stations, but of course there is a good deal to do until we have restored the balance between country and city from the rough centralisation of recent years; it has moved jobs, settlements, closed shops and bus routes. But we are in the SF ready to take a turn, because we think it is important that we have viable and exciting and lovely rural areas in which you can settle, whether you are a citizen or a company. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110162238	Thanks to Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Then it's the Enhedslisten by sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110162302	Yes, as a very, very commentary on the opening of our debate here today, I would like to say that yesterday the DR happened to show the film "Uncle". I don't know how many people saw it when it went to the movies, but otherwise there's a chance to see it tomorrow. It is an excellent I would even venture to claim that it is one of the best that has been done in Danish film production for many decades. Yes, I am now, of course, on top of the tall nails, but it really shows that there is a bottom in people living in the country in this case South Jutland. I'd like to sign that. Well, that's not what this regional and rural policy statement is about. I have to say that it does not really reveal anything new, and in this way it can be said that it is a rather thin cup of tea, but it describes the development that has been and has been, and we know that the centralisation of our society has given rise to many problems, especially for rural areas. On page 7 of the statement it says: The demographic decline will continue. Boom, go ahead. So we still have the problem gone. So we continue to see a shift from rural areas towards cities, particularly among young people in the 20s. This is no wonder, because it is mainly due to the centralisation of education in the larger cities. It is not only bad for rural areas, as we see it in the report, but it is also bad for the cities that have to accept young people, because it puts additional pressure on the larger cities to ensure that the demand for housing for those seeking training can keep up. We therefore believe in the Enhedslisten that we should have looked at the decentralization of both youth education and higher education in one way or another. It is also good that we can see once again that there is a problem with centralisation. The answer was a transition, and that was just before, that was the only answer, and that was at least what we discussed a great deal about the relocation of state jobs. We have now established that it has not really moved anything. Many of the jobs that have moved from the capital have moved to a larger town in the province, and it doesn't benefit much when you get a little outside the major cities out in the province. It can also be said that the families who are moving, after all, still have children who will have to move into the larger cities if they want an education as it now stands. At the same time, it is also disastrous and we can see on page 27 that the number of primary schools is falling dramatically, because it does not make it easier to get anyone to move out at all, that is to say, to have families with children move to our outlying areas, to our rural areas. So relocation of state jobs can be a good idea, but it must be thought through. New state jobs are a completely different matter and it is really worth considering whether they cannot be placed in rural areas. But what this is all about is the relocation of education and the establishment of new training courses around our outermost regions and rural areas. We have also seen that the municipal centres, including the town hall and the community service, are getting longer, and this is really a major democratic problem, and this is a direct consequence of the municipal reform. This has also meant that power and decision-making have moved further away from the citizens, and we need to look at ways of giving more influence and decision-making power to the villages. Here, the Enhedslisten believes that we should give the villages more opportunity to oppose decisions by the city councils, for example. through referendums, quite clearly it could be about school closures, but also local councils, village guilds etc. will have their own economy, over which they sovereign. We have also had a discussion in the Rural Committee on this issue with free villages, there have been some proposals and such things, and it has been a little up and down, and the parties have first been a little reluctant and afterwards non-reserved, but it seems that there has been a little life in that discussion again, and this is something that Enhedslisten is delighted with enormously. From the very beginning, we have supported the fact that we should try to look at the opportunities that could be offered by the fire-souls who are very much driving the development around our villages and our islands, having some opportunities in relation to the barriers they run into, it may be legislation, it may be other provisions, etc. It is not just a tool that you can use, in the view of the Enhedslisten, because we also have reservations about some of the things, but we think it is worth examining whether we can move a little further along that path. On top of the centralisation of municipalities, hospitals, police and education, we also see a centralisation of the retail structure, and we see fewer and fewer grocery stores, and the shops that disappear are those in rural areas, which are then assembled in the larger towns in larger shops too. It is not, of course, a development that has come about on its own; it is a development that the changing majority behind the changes to the planning law, including the retail regulations of the planning law, has paved the way for, and so we need to tighten up the planning law in this respect and thus avoid the concentration of shops in few major cities and in very, very large shops. The Enhedslisten would also like to look at being able to support and strengthen the opportunities, including financially, for village residents to take over closure-threatening grocery stores, grocery stores, etc. We have seen some trends in this and some instances of it around us, and we want to help look at the opportunities for it also financially, as I said. When we look at the statement, we also see greater unemployment in rural areas in relation to the areas closer to the larger cities, and it is clear that there is a need to do something about job creation. It is therefore important for us that we have job creation in rural areas, which are not just relocated state jobs, and that is why we must also give greater support to small local entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in rural areas. And there is, of course, the problem of the obvious lack of attractiveness for financial institutions to grant loans to businessmen and potential home buyers in our rural areas. In other words, the market cannot do the job or will not do the job of ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to settle in rural areas or on islands or operate, in other words, anyone who has the opportunity to do so and wants to do so. In the view of Enhedslisten, it is so obvious that the state must then get on the ground in one way or another with the possibility of granting loans that the banks and mortgage banks are not willing to do. It could be in the form of a community bank. This is our ideal solution, but we are prepared to look at other solutions as well; it may be via KommuneKredit, or it may be, as the SF's rapporteur said, through looking at Norwegian conditions etc. etc. Another important parameter for economic operators and, moreover, for settlement is the possibility of fast broadband. It is clear that the problem that we saw just a few years ago has become much smaller, but we have to go all the way, and that is why we should still set aside funds for a broadband pool that will ensure that everyone comes along. According to the report, the problem is especially in the Region of Zealand and it is not satisfactory in our view that the government will not continue the broadband pool of 100 million. kr. There were 342 applications which have been brought to the attention of this year's pool, 9,000 addresses, 90 per cent. in rural areas, but over 110,000 to 140,000 homes and businesses still do not have access to fast broadband. So we believe there is a continuing need. It will, of course, fall in the years to come, but we believe that there is a continuing need and we think that everyone should be involved. The report also deals with rural mobility, and this section is, to put it mildly, inadequate. After all, we have become a nation of commuters, as the explanation rightly points out, the need to move is increasing, but there is no explanation for the lack of public transport coverage, which we consider to be a major barrier for many people living outside the major cities, and that is a major problem. It is also a problem that is linked to the other issues that arise from centralisation, i.e. when the functions to be performed in your daily life, shops, schools, municipalities, doctors, hospitals etc. If we go further and further away, then, of course, the need for fast and inexpensive transport will increase. And here we think the ball is really lost. We cannot keep moving things further apart and at the same time make transport more expensive and worse. That is what has happened in public transport. In a different direction, transport must be better and cheaper, and the politicians who have helped to centralise Denmark have a very special responsibility for this. May I refer here to, for example: what is happening in North Jutland, where we have worked so hard to establish a link between modes of transport with their plus trips, their focal point strategy, etc. etc. Allow me, then, to flag Enhedslisten's proposal to Finance Law 2021 on cycling, where we have proposed that the state, in the form of the Road Directorate, establish a number of cycle paths around the state road network, for they are missing. These are projects which are already ready and which can be launched on that day tomorrow also as part of stimuli packages. Many other things could be mentioned here, but there is no time for that, so it must remain with those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110163318	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested, and then we go straight to the Minister, as there are no representatives from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110163331	Thank you for that and thank you for some very good speeches, and that is what it looks like: a green statement on the development of our rural areas, green of course, because hope and the future are green, and there is enough to address if we are also to create a hopeful and positive future in our rural areas. Thank you for the good speeches and the good debate, and it is good to hear, as I am used to, that there is a great deal of agreement in the rural group, and it is very clear that rural policy is of great concern to us all. This year's regional and rural policy report shows that most of Denmark, including the municipalities further away from the major cities, has actually made progress in employment, economic growth and population figures up to the corona crisis. Unfortunately, the explanation also shows that there is a distortion between country and city, and that Denmark is being divided into an A and B team, where the large cities have higher growth and more movers, while the areas further away from the big cities lag after the general development of the rest of the country. We must change that, because it must not be the postal number that determines whether there is equal opportunities in Denmark. Since the financial crisis, economic growth has been unevenly distributed. While bnp per. The population has increased by 14 per cent. In the larger urban municipalities, it has only increased by 10%. in the remaining municipalities. Employment has been increasing in recent years, but here too we see that the curve is steeper and therefore more positive for the larger cities. Rural areas further away from the largest cities have had a population decline of approx. 5% Since 2010. The real estate market outside the large cities is characterised by a distorted relationship between supply and demand, while there are Danes who have problems borrowing to the house they would like to buy if it is located in a rural district, as both the Social Democratic and SF's rapporteur have also mentioned during the debate. Uninhabited and dilapidated housing not only affects the attractiveness of an area in relation to settlement, but also, of course, in relation to tourism, and then it gives residential speculators the opportunity to rent poor housing to vulnerable citizens, and that cannot be done. Retail trade is developing, where shops are also centralized in the larger cities and where the network trade attracts a large proportion of customers. The development means that the classic city centre, as we knew it from the medium-sized provincial towns with live pedestrian streets and street areas, is becoming smaller and smaller. Centralisation is one of the main reasons for the distortion in the 00s that we have seen, a wave of centralisation that has washed over Denmark and which has pushed rural areas into a siding. In the area of primary education, the small municipalities have combined or closed the most schools since 2014. This is often done on the basis of a desire to improve efficiency, but at the same time it creates a greater distance from the nearest primary school. The regions are building new super hospitals in these years, and of course we are doing so in order to offer special treatment, but at the same time it also means that in some areas of Denmark there will be too long for health care. The statement shows that a total of 20 hospitals are closed from 2007 to 2019. Centralisation contributes to the concentration of citizens and businesses in the larger cities and to the fact that the citizens who stay in rural areas are given more time for the welfare services that must apply to all of us. Of course, that's not gonna work. We need to get back close and secure a Denmark that does not break over, and the government has already taken a number of initiatives to create a Denmark that does not break over. One example, which was also highlighted earlier in the debate, is the reform of the municipal equalisation system, which establishes a special subsidy for vulnerable island and peripheral municipalities of 1.5 billion. kr., and which at the same time means that approx. 1.4 billion kr. moved to the country's 30 outlying municipalities. With a new multi-year agreement for the police, the government wants to end the centralisation of recent years and create a present and visible police force close to citizens with 20 new police units and more resources for 300 operational officers for the civilian police work. We have also set up a new partnership for living urban centres, which will bring together all the best experiences and make recommendations for interventions so that we can maintain and create more life in the city centres out in our outermost regions. The Corona crisis hits Danish tourism very hard. That is why we adopted together, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, the summer package, which contains initiatives for 700 million. kr., and which was a great success in rural areas. We deposed, among other things. 186,5 million DKK, which gave the Danes half price for admission tickets for selected cultural and association experiences, and it was made free for all pedestrians and cyclists to sail with the Danish domestic ferries throughout July 2020. Earlier this year, I made an agreement with the Danish Business Promotion Board on a new strategy for business promotion in Denmark that ensures a close cooperation on business development throughout our country. The aim is to develop local lighthouse projects which will strengthen business development in a whole part of the country. An example of a successful lighthouse project, which I think many know, is the conversion of the now closed shipyard on Lindø to the successful Lindø Industrial Park. When the shipyard closed in 2009, many people in the local area were left in unemployment, but through cooperation between local companies and authorities, it was possible to create new jobs and business models for the benefit of the entire area around Lindø. Another important priority for the government is to support local initiatives and the flourishing local commitment to rural areas. Therefore, the government has decided to roll back the previous government's savings on the LAG scheme for 2020 and 2021, so that in those years the LAG is allocated 93 million. kr. LAG funding helps to create better conditions for settlement, for jobs and for rural development, which is why the funding is very important for rural areas and it is essential that the LAG is also given priority in the future. In the spring round of the rural pool, the focus has been on green projects, projects that promote the green transition in rural areas. Next year there will be next to the regular pool of 24 million. kr. be additional two pools. Nearly 10 million have been set aside. kr. Annually from 2021 to 2024 to a compensation pool for communities with many wind turbines in the vicinity. And then approx. 4 million kr. in 2021 to a new pool targeting local voluntary actors in rural areas. All these are examples of what the government has already done to strengthen rural areas. And the good news is that hope is bright green and that we are far from done with the work. The government will work to address the challenges of funding problems, which have also been raised in today's debate, in our rural areas. It is an unsustainable situation that active Danes cannot start business or cannot buy their dream house just because it is in the wrong postal code or in the wrong rural district. We in the government are looking at possible solutions to the problem of access to loans in the country. We also need to get an even clearer sense of the scale and nature of the problem, which is why I have in the second context and I would also like to do so here today • urged citizens and companies to write in with their stories. All rural rapporteurs have met them, and I have met them. Everyone who travels around our rural areas meets the debate on loan challenges and knows the stories about the couples who cannot borrow for their accommodation. At the same time, we hear how money and mortgage institutions cannot recognise the problem and tell us that loans are being made throughout the country. It's hard to believe that both can be right at the same time. That is why, as politicians, we need to create an alliance with the citizens of our rural areas, and that is why we are asking you to write in with your specific experiences of refusing housing loans. We call this mailbox a loan in the country, and the address is therefore lpl@em.dk. Many have already written in, but the more people share their history, the better. And it's not because we need information about exactly which institute is involved, or you have to feel like you're hanging out your bank advisor. That is not what it is about; it is about sharing its experience so that we create the common alliance that allows us to draw the right picture of the true extent of the problems. It is the Government's ambition that all parts of Denmark should recover from the corona crisis, and we should not make the mistakes of the past after the financial crisis, where the bill for the crisis was hanging longest in our outermost regions. It is our ambition that there should be equal opportunities to live, work and live everywhere in Denmark. And we will therefore continue to make proposals on rural areas, including new initiatives to strengthen education opportunities, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also pointed out, outside the large cities. And then we will come up with a joint initiative for rural areas later in the parliamentary term. Finally, as a small promotional feature, I would like to encourage everyone who is committed to the rural agenda to watch as we digitally stream our rural conference on 16 November in a corona-friendly format. And with those words and in the hope of seeing many of the participants digitally in the online universe, I would like to thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164529	Thank you. There are four who have signed up so far and the first is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164536	I really have two questions for the Minister. Last time we had the discussion on loans in rural areas, the Minister said that a solution was soon to be found or that he expected something to happen soon. I am listening to the fact that it may not be so soon, but perhaps the Minister has an estimate of when we will land. The second point is: now I could understand that the Minister, like the Minister for Finance, says that there is no need for the broadband pool, but does the Minister not agree that when the number of applications is more than doubled, a broadband pool is actually needed? What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164616	Well, that's right. I think that, last time we had the debate, we were between the first and the second wave of corona, so I remember, at least, where we had such a little prospect that we could actually work on other important political issues than exactly corona, and now we are in the middle of the second wave. I cannot tell you exactly when we will be ready with the solution to the loan challenge. However, I can say that it is our ambition to present a solution. I know the SF's proposal for a solution, because it has been presented many times, and I do not know if it is the right way, but I will not reject anything, because if we are going to solve this, we need to have an open mind on it. And that is what we want, and we will also try, as well as we can, to be quick to present a solution, but I also believe that everyone understands that corona takes up almost every hour of political work, at least in the Ministry of Industry, right now. In relation to the broadband pool, I would say that we need broadband throughout Denmark, and a pool can be one way to go. I believe that the market can lift a lot, and when I look at the local and regional energy companies, I am confident that the effort is on the right track out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164725	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164727	I can just see that applications have been received for twice the value of the pool, ergo we could at least run 1 more year with the broadband pool. So I would just like to ask the Minister whether he believes that the market is going to solve the problems of broadband for all Danish homes, which is of course an important prerequisite for being able to operate, have homework or participate in distance learning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164755	I have to say that I generally believe that the market can lift more than it gets when there is a pool, because a pool also has to pull that energy out of the market. But I am not supposed to be able to say on the basis of that whether it can do everything on its own. I believe that market forces are strong. I myself know about the local and regional energy companies, which are taking on a very high level of social responsibility in order to cover entire municipalities with broadband, and I think we need to see much more of this sort of thing, which is why a broadband pool should not in principle be so crucial. Now we have to negotiate a financial law, and then we have to see where it is going, but I believe that the market can lift more than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164839	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164842	One could also turn it around and say that the pool is necessary because the market is not exactly I agree that the market has solved large parts of the task of rolling out broadband, but there are, of course, some that remain, as both the SF's rapporteur and I myself have pointed out. I also think that it should be maintained in this context that the Danish Energy Agency has assessed the pool to be a really positive enterprise which, if I may say so, has given good value for the money. And when the projection to 2023 says that there will be only between 20,000 and 90,000... that's quite a slip... then I don't think it doesn't matter if there's 20,000 left or 90,000 by then. And if the objective is to be achieved and it has always been that everyone should be involved, then I still think that a broadband pool is needed, and that is why I think it is a pity that we are now about to have that fight between the government and the support parties. Last year it ended with what to say that the government bowed down, and we got it, and I hope that will happen this year, of course, but the minister could contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164952	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110164954	I would very much hope that there will be a fruitful and good budget negotiation process between the government and the parties participating there. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the Danish Energy Agency, and I think this is part of the debate here, that when the Danish Energy Agency looks at the massive roll-out of broadband which is currently underway and when they produce until the middle of the decade we are in now, that is to say in a few years' time, you are down to the fact that it is 1-2 per cent that you expect not to be covered so there is a market development going on out there. In any case, I think that is worth taking note of in the debate. It should not exempt the parties from the different views of a broadband pool, but it is just a nuance in the debate that comes with it. And then we can also see that Thy-Mor's Energy, Norly's and other energy companies have ambitious plans in this field, and I think that is a big part of the way forward in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165055	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165057	Yeah, yeah, but let's see. So far, there's a need. So far, there are between 110,000 and 140,000 that are not covered. Let us continue a little longer and then let us see whether we can bring it down to zero or whether it comes down to zero, including through the help of market forces. All right with us, but so far, at least, we find that there is a need. The Corona crisis has shown, of course, that there is a huge need for home jobs and such things. It's good for the climate, by the way. This is very good for combating all the commuting, which the report also draws attention to. We've become a nation of commuters. It's really good that we get it established, but then it should also be possible allerallerangest out there in Nørre Vorupør, or where there might be bad coverage • I don't know. But there must be an opportunity so that everyone can also participate in that development.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165151	Well, I don't disagree with the political ambition. I think we share it. I think it is more a question of how we can get there. And then I should say that in Nørre Vorupør there is actually quite reasonable broadband coverage, and we have good entrepreneurial environments in what is probably called Silicon VØ for Vorupør. This testifies to the fact that Thy, when a certain bandwidth is required, can actually deliver here too. However, as I say, there are also good energy companies that help with the coverage there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165224	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165226	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, Minister. I also have a few questions. First question: in the Left, we are also very concerned that there is an opportunity to finance it when buying houses or in relation to businesses in our rural areas. See, I'm so old in the yard now that I remember when we regulated on the back of the financial crisis. That is where we tightened the requirements of the financial sector very much. And that was in order, and that, of course, is good too. Could it be that some of the things we did with good intentions back on the back of the financial crisis are one of the things that keep the financial sector from being a little more risky in our rural areas? And could one imagine some form of differentiated guarantee provision for the financial sector, in other words, in relation to the cities, where one can relatively quickly convert an apartment or a dwelling and then out in rural areas where it takes a little longer? I do not think that the legislation makes any distinction, but of course the Minister knows that, because he is also the head of the financial sector, at least when it comes to legislation. That is one question. The second question is: would the Minister himself have talked so much about making our rural areas attractive to acquire a property, a house, out in a rural area where there were no fiber networks where there was no network coverage?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165343	First of all, on the issue of financial markets and their regulation, I would like to say that this may well be a place to look. I will not deny that. I go to the need to solve the loan problem with eagerness and a very open mind. That is why I am not going to reject anything yet. There is at least one point in what the rapporteur says: there is no differentiation in this way today. Even if that is the right solution, I think it is too early to conclude yet, but I also hope that with the active participation of the Left we can find a solution. Because now we've talked about it. I am not as old as the rapporteur on the farm as I think it was the expression that the rapporteur himself used in relation to this agenda, but I have been following the area since I entered Parliament as a politician. From the first day this has been the subject of debate and the problem has not been resolved yet. I think we should have an ambition to be the assembly that does this. In relation to housing: Of course you will then go for a place with broadband, unless it was really such a quiet coup you had bought yourself to be able to relax a lot, but if it is to be a fixed dwelling, then broadband counts a lot. So I do not disagree with the objective, but I just ask the question whether the means should be a pool or whether the market can lift more than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165456	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165457	Thank you, and thank you for the answers. I deliberately didn't use the word old, because then I'd feel taken. I used the word experienced, because then I had a little in advance in relation to the Minister. I think, Minister, that we should look there, because we may have regulated just as much as we have. We need to get the financial sector under control, we agree on that, but perhaps it should be in such a way that we equate things. It is easier to convert housing into a city than it is in a rural area, and it may be some of the things that keep the financial sector from going a little further on the ice. But, of course, the store needs to be in control. When I come up with that idea, it's because the Minister wanted good ideas and input for this. I would just like us to end up with a solution where we do not make it more expensive to borrow in rural areas, otherwise we are going to get rural areas off the ground so badly. So we must not land on that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165552	Then it is up to the middle-aged President to give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165555	I thought you were gonna say it was for the young minister, but okay. I am very sorry if I have come to call the rapporteur old. That was not my intention. I just wanted to re-use the expression I thought I heard the rapporteur use, but that is not always what is being said. Thanks for the input. I'm thinking we just have to keep digging into it. There is, of course, a risk to it if, for example, you do. I would like to see a differentiated rate of contribution or otherwise differentiate what it costs, and that is why there may be a problem with that proposal. However, I am not opposed to looking at financial regulation. It is of course important that we take care of our Danish mortgage model when we do so, but I think we share that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165633	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165636	Thank you. We therefore have a situation where there is a lot of housing in rural areas that is without broadband coverage. And then it may be that the minister says: Well, the market will do most of it over the next five years. But then it means that the next five years are the other places unsellable. And to say that the market takes 97-98 percent, is it so to say that then the fuck can take the last, or what? We have to find a solution to what we do in those places where houses are simply too scattered for it to be profitable to do for the market. How do we solve this? After all, we simply have to find a solution to this, and we should not just wait five years. After all, we need to find a solution now, because we can probably already predict which places on the map it is that it will not be profitable to be covered by the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165733	I think we should have the ambition that there should be broadband in Denmark and that it should be completely spread out, of course. And I don't want anything to do with it now I'm trying to recycle the term if I heard it right that the hell should take the last ones, of course not. But there is at the same time the logic inherent in it that if you spend money on a pool now that the market is drawing a lot and the projections show that we are getting very far, that money will not in principle be used to cover the last ones, if that is what you want, because you go in and spend money on something else the market would do. I don't really think we look at it that differently. I think that's how we get there, we're discussing right now. We look at that differently, and that is fair enough. And then, of course, there must be a debate now, when finance law is being negotiated and where more people have raised it, and then we must see where it ends up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165828	I would just like to say that this is how we do not call on the name of God in the Assembly, and I do not think we should call on the name of the other Lord. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165839	That has been noted. I'll try not to. The problem, of course, is that here and now we have houses which, on that basis, are unsellable, even as Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen is here. Of course, nobody wants to buy a property where there is no broadband coverage. That is the challenge we have to solve here and now. For most people, it is probably not the hardest thing to guess which areas are going to be really difficult for the market to cover, and there you could, for example. start with the pot. Another thing, if I can make it fast, is in relation to the tax centres. When setting up tax centres on a decentralised basis, will the Minister work to ensure that it is also outside the major provincial towns, so that we really can really help rural areas in this very good approach, by the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110165940	It is an interesting proposal from the Danish People's Party to target the pool, and that is something that can be taken further in the discussions. I think a lot of people bought anyway. We see a year in which we have a record turnover of summer houses, and I believe that there will also be challenges with broadband in several places. And then we try to weigh up a consideration around the tax centres and get out in a decentralised manner. We are a government that wants decentralisation, but of course we must also be able to recruit the staff needed for effective tax management in Denmark. So there are many considerations involved, and that work is safe in the hands of the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170022	No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. We thank the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170029	The debate is open and I shall give the floor to the Minister for the Environment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170102	Thank you. Today we have to deal with a proposal which focuses on nature • an area which is also a priority of the government. We are in the midst of a corona crisis, but we are also in the midst of a climate crisis and, above all, a biodiversity crisis. We see species extinct at unprecedented speed; one million species are threatened with extinction; Denmark's reporting on the state of nature to the EU in 2019 also showed that nature in Denmark has not improved since 2013. We need to improve the natural state in Denmark. I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. Action is needed to help our cramped nature, and the government has acted. We have already decided to extend at least 6,000 more hectares to untouched forest. We have decided to stop the commercial chainsaw immediately in 32 state-owned forests that the previous government had designated for untouched forest, but which for economic reasons would only be completely free of felling in 2066. It provides more untouched forest with hooked trees and hollow trunks, which can provide space for the birds and insects, which benefit many endangered species. And recently we started the preparation of Denmark's first two national parks on Fussingø near Randers, and one in Gribskov in North Zealand. These must now be areas where there is room and space for nature to be allowed to be more wild and to develop more on its own terms. These are areas where we put biodiversity at the centre. We have also allocated money to stone reefs and to protect particularly vulnerable nature. We have decided that in future protected meadows should not be ploughed, fertilised and sprayed. The ban will mean that there will be more flowering plants in the meadows and with them also more locust butterflies and other insects. The initiative will affect approx. 37,000 hectares of protected nature, i.e. a total area corresponding to Mother's. We have set aside 2 billion. kr. to extract more agricultural land up to 2030 and 100 million. kr. to a Climate Forest Fund. But, of course, we are not finished or in the end, although we have launched all these initiatives, and that is why, at a time of Corona and major challenges, we have priority to allocate 200 million. kr. to nature on the financial bill for next year over the next four years, so that we can ensure that we can also take new steps with the forthcoming Finance Act to take better care of our common nature. We have proposed that the money should be targeted at national parks and untouched forests. Over the past many years it hasn't been short on big words about our nature. Nevertheless, reports after reports show that things are going the wrong way. That is why action is needed, and that is precisely what we have focused our energies on. Even before the elections, the Social Democratic Party announced that we wanted more untouched forests and new wild nature parks. So our ambitions are high, but our approach is different from that of the proposers. The government cannot support an approach which, as in the motion for a resolution, sets out a number of very far-reaching objectives and thus calculates a bill of billions without also indicating where the money is to come from. I will not go into all the elements of the motion for a resolution, but the bill will at least amount to a large two-digit billion. Our approach is concrete action where we find funding, as we have already done in a large number of areas. I must therefore also reject the proposal on behalf of the government. I have recently negotiated with the government's support parties about precisely the efforts for the Danish nature and also discussed with all other parties, and those negotiations are still under way. So we continue the good work that has been set in motion, precisely to ensure concrete changes for the Danish nature. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170523	Thank you. For the time being, a single comment has been made by Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170531	Thank you. And thank you for, at least in words, the positive approach to nature, because I really have no doubt that we both parties want nature. I think that the question is about speed, and it is a good thing that natural and national parks are being set up, that is a total of 1 900 hectares, so that is not all in relation to the government's promises before the election of 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. Therefore, I would like to hear what the Minister's ambition is, in terms of how much nature we should actually have when we reach 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170614	Thank you for the question, and thank you also for recognizing that we are on a very green mandate from the Danes in general and therefore also a clear desire to act on the natural crisis that we see. Then we can have different approaches to how to do it, but that doesn't change the fact that for the government this is a priority area. Then the rapporteur asks about our ambitions. Our ambitions are the same as we announced before the elections, namely that we will act on the natural crisis, on more coherent natural areas. When you ask the researchers, what they say is missing to the wild nature, space, and that is also why that is what we have focused on, on the one hand, with the Finance Act that was concluded last year, and on the other hand with the Financial Bill that we have put forward. And then there are currently negotiations on nature and biodiversity, as I also mentioned in my speech, and we are not finished with those discussions yet, and that is just the Danish effort. In addition, all the work that is under way within the European Union, including towards 2030, comes with the biodiversity strategy that we adopted at the Council meeting here very recently, which must now be unfolded and help to ensure that there is both more protected nature in Europe, but also that we have a nature recovery plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170735	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170738	Thank you. Compared to the EU's plan that we should have 30%. Nature, of which 10% I would like to ask: is this a plan that the Minister intends to support so that we can reach it by 2030? Secondly, I would like to know whether the Minister is thinking of a sub-target, so we have a goal, in relation to how far we should be in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170803	In relation to the EU strategy, Denmark has actively supported the objective of protecting 30%. on land and at sea, 10% of which. strictly protected on land and at sea within the EU by 2030. So we've seen that fully backed up. In order to ensure that there is also a momentum, there is, of course, in that strategy a road map for a number of initiatives which must help to ensure that we also achieve objectives, and this is something that we are doing, among other things. on this nature recovery plan, which will also come from the Commission, that stocks will be taken in the European Union in 2023, looking at whether the Member States have actually moved forward, on which we have committed each other now, and then it should also be a basis for the negotiating position with which the European Union is going to the United Nations, with the new global objectives, which will hopefully be adopted next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170858	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170901	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to ask a little about the ambitions of the government for the next few years in the field of nature, because I fully agree with the Minister that nature is in a huge crisis and that this is something that we must act on politically. That's why I was like a lot of other people, I think, happy when I saw both the Social Democracy and the SF and the Social Democrats playing out even before the elections. And in the project called Denmark must again be a green power, it says that we must have 75,000 hectares of untouched forest in Denmark and 15 national parks. I think most of us read the proposal as if it were something that was quite natural to happen during this parliamentary term, but with the answers that come from the Minister, I have become in doubt. Does the government still believe that this should happen during the parliamentary term we are in now, or is it just something that has to happen sometime far out in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110170958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171000	First of all, I should like to welcome the fact that Enhedslisten is reading the Social Democratic election document, which can only be welcomed. We are fully at the mark of the ambitions that we had in that presentation, too, with the emphasis on untouched forests, on natural parks, on some of the wild nature that we are also working with Enhedslisten to ensure becomes reality. So thank you for your cooperation on that. In terms of how we should proceed to that task, we have agreed in our understanding paper that we should also have a package of nature and biodiversity. And that is where we must also be involved in defining the effort, and hence also the pace and timetable of how quickly we have to achieve it. So in the presentation from which Mrs Mai Villadsen quotes, that is to say Denmark must once again be a green power, we have not set a date for when to achieve it, but we are working very hard to deliver on the promises we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171058	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171100	Well, I will take that as an indication that when we negotiate nature and biodiversity packages, the government's proposal will be at least 15 national parks and 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. I have a clear expectation of that. I would just like to touch on what this proposal is about, namely a biodiversity law, because there are a great many of us in the Danish Parliament who believe that there should be a biodiversity law in Denmark. I would like to hear: is the government completely opposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171131	To the first part first: It's nice with high expectations. I also have high expectations that we can achieve real progress for Denmark's nature together. In relation to the second part, the issue of a biodiversity law, it has not been one of the proposals put forward by the Social Democrats. After all, we have gone to the task of promoting the nature we have in this country in a way different from that which is in the proposal for the biodiversity law. But that is one of the things that has come in among all the many proposals that have been made for a package of nature and biodiversity. I am also looking at some environmental rapporteurs, for whom it also means a great deal, and who have also said so in the debates that are there. So it is on the table as one of the wishes that are from among others. Enhedslisten and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171216	Sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171218	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. My question follows on from what Mrs Mai Villadsen has said. I understand that the Minister is also referring to those negotiations, and it is quite fair that you have them with your support parties. I can take a look over at Mr. Simpson's. René Christensen; I think we had that in our time with our support party, so there is no evil in it. But is this a proposal made by the government, and if so, can you see it somewhere? Has it been published, or can we see it in any other way? I really want to ask you a very sincere question, because I would like to see if we could offer something and how far we can go in those contexts. Or is this the issue to which Mrs Mai Villadsen also refers, that is to say, the issue that the Social Democrats made before the elections, which is also on the table now that you are a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171303	Well, it's nice to have a curious rapporteur from the Left, who, after all, is also quite routine in terms of how negotiations are running. However, I would like to say that, in this way, I only welcome the fact that there is a general desire in the Danish Parliament to deliver good ideas, including in relation to this agenda, and I would also like to listen very much to what the Left has to say. For the same reason, I have just had a discussion with all the parties in the Folketing about this. In relation to the process, there is at least no doubt in this room that the process that had been put together with the Nature Summit this spring and with the examination of all the proposals that came up with a package of nature and biodiversity in this regard was the way we would have liked to have gone to it and that, in this way, corona has also played a major role in the timetable that has been laid down. But that does not change the fact that we are now engaged in the negotiations, and that is also where we have had some discussions with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171401	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171403	That is quite fair, and I can easily understand this with the timetable and the corona, and that there have been many practical challenges in every way, including here. But it was more because Mrs Mai Villadsen asked if, when we are going to negotiate biodiversity and nature packages, we could expect this to be part of the government's initiative. Then I just had a little doubt as to whether there is actually a proposal from the government or whether, in these negotiations, we are starting from what the Social Democratic Party, before the parliamentary elections, put forward as its natural play.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171433	The ambitions that we set out before the elections remain with the government, and I tried to make that as clear as I could before. That is also why, when we have had to focus our efforts and say what is most important to us here and now, it has been getting started with the work of planting more untouched forests, where we know that many of the endangered species are, but also getting Denmark's first two national parks of nature started. So we have both the ambitions we stand on, we have taken concrete action, and then we are in the process of negotiations, including now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171507	Then no one else has signed up to brief remarks to the Minister, which is why I shall now give the floor to Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171523	Thank you. I am simply fortunate that I live in a place where there is room for a small flower meadow with native species, which I have spent some of the extra time I had at home in the coronate, to enjoy. There have been insects, bees and, of course, flowers. I've gotten to know the blue mosaic goldsmith I can say that it can be a little aggressive; you don't think so, but it actually can. The sum that I've experienced in this flower bed, which is now taken over by the mushrooms, the toads are about to be gone, the frogs are about to be gone; now there are mushrooms, and the snails are so small on their way in winter hibernation I would like everyone else to be allowed the pleasure of. The problem is that in Denmark we are in a natural crisis. It is a natural crisis in which we know that when we go out into the woods there are no species. They're dead, they don't have room to live as nature now looks. Therefore, we have to go far to become more green in Denmark. We need more nature, and I think it was said very clearly by the Minister for the Environment before: we are very ambitious in the green area. The motion for a resolution that we have before us today is, after all, about requiring the government to put forward a bill on a biodiversity law with an incredible number of demands and demands, which may well cost 10, 50 or 100 billion. kr.; we don't know. It's amazing, but it's violent. I would say that I can see that this is a resolution that is full of wonderful green dreams, but no matter how wonderful dreams are, they will never come true unless you can show how to pay for them. Unfortunately, the authors of the motion for a resolution cannot do so, which is why we in the Socialist Group must reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171804	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171807	I like dreams, and I think they are a prerequisite for us to make a difference in reality. That's what we want in the Free Greens. Now I can hear from the Minister that the level of ambition that the European Union is setting out is a biodiversity strategy in which we have 30%. of our water area, sea area, as biodiversity area and 10%. as a total area of biodiversity. How is it, then, that the rapporteur thinks that we can achieve that objective when these tools we are pointing to cannot be used?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171842	I would like to say that I am not saying that these tools cannot be used. I am just saying that when you make a proposal here in the Folketing, you also have to be able to tell us what it costs and how you want to pay it. And to me, this looks very incalculable. After all, the European Union's objective is ours. That's what we're agreed on. That is what we are working with the other countries for; there is a common EU objective. At the same time, we are also engaged in negotiations with parties at home about making more green bets. So I think we're on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171919	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171921	I think it sounds really nice that the visions are the 30%. Then I wonder whether you could make a biodiversity law which complies with the 30% and which, with some other methods, is perhaps 60 or 70 per cent. in 2025, so we're sure we're actually gonna get there. Could this be a proposal to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110171947	Is the rapporteur for the proposers supposed to ask me questions? I have to ask: how much does it cost? We cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to a proposal before. However, we agree with the joint EU ambition on the 30%.; we are in complete agreement on that, so that is no problem. We want more nature, but we just want to make sure that it is nature in hand and not on the roof: it has to be funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172020	We thank the rapporteur. Then we're going to sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172031	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward the proposal we are debating here. From the point of view of the Left, we agree with the ambition I also heard from Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party earlier, so I can perhaps actually put myself in the slippery stream of it, understood in the sense that we also think something should happen. We can see that there is a challenge, we can see that nature is in crisis, and this is translated into the list of red-list species and the other well-known measuring instruments which show that nature is under pressure. That is why I believe that everyone in this Parliament shares the ambition that we must do something. The question then is just how we do it best and most effectively, including with regard to what Mrs Gjerskov also mentioned, about funding and the economy. There we have the approach that we have in many areas • probably most but which we at least also have in the field of the environment and nature, namely that we also have to make sure that we have the most impact on the money we now choose to prioritise. There are many different priorities, but priority must also be given to the natural area, and that is why we would also like to be sure that with the efforts we then give priority to the toolbox, there will certainly be different tools in the toolbox, so that we also have the best possible effect in terms of protecting and also developing on our nature and therefore also biodiversity. That is what we have as a starting point. Then, with regard to the specific proposal, we are sceptical about the fact that, as has already been said, it is very concrete and deadlocked. And not an evil word about trying to be concrete, but it also means that I will at least find it difficult to say at this stage whether it is the right tools, what it really is for a size we are dealing with, what this will cost, what consequences there will be, what the alternatives will be, and how we could do it here in the context of all the different options that may now be within the economy that we in this Chamber can have a majority for or perhaps even agree on in a broad agreement. That's why we just say that we acknowledge that it's an ambition... it used to be called a dream... that goes in the right direction. We also recognise that there is the challenge that is also described in the proposal, but we are concerned and sceptical about the fact that it is very locked and very concrete, without at least being able to see whether it is the right tools to be used and, incidentally, what the size of the tools to be used is. So we will also be able to say that we cannot support what is happening here. But now that we are talking about the economy, I would also like to say that it is also a fundamental idea in the whole talk of nature and biodiversity • that I also believe that we should look at this as biodiversity is the new currency, as some have said. In other words, the fact that you have a thriving nature, both on land and in the sea, because we should not forget that we can also throw away currency by means of tourism or other measures, which means that we can see that revenue is collected in other ways too, so that it is not only expenditure that protects our nature and its environment and therefore biodiversity, but also that it is also a good thing to give Denmark a green mark in general, also in relation to tourism and other activities, which are, of course, some of the things we, especially in the less populated regions of the country, live on. So in those words, we in the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172419	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172421	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now we've started with dreams, so now I think we should try to play games. We can play that we will have a third of our nature on land and on water as space that is targeted nature to a greater or lesser extent. Then we throw away the tools, and then we find common ways of achieving the dreams of one third of the land area or 30%. or 34 per cent.; it's a little dependent on where we work. Could it be imagined that the Left would be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172502	With all due respect for us throwing the tools away and trying to play it can have a purpose in itself, but this is really serious enough, so it's not just a game I'll find it hard to say, both what it has to do with the economy and what the alternatives will be to achieve the goal that I also sense there is broad support for, and which I sense we share. I was not able to say this before I think the rapporteur for the proposers mentioned it, but we can actually see ourselves in making a biodiversity law. It depends, of course, on what you put into it; it is clear. It is easy to say that you want to make a biodiversity law. Well, that depends on what's in it. But we would actually like to do it, also to make some goals that would be binding on the Folketing. There is nothing more binding than the fact that a majority can always change it, but a little inspired by our climate legislation, where we also go in and say that this is what we want to go for, and then we tie ourselves to it, and then we find the tools along the way. That's how far I'd like to stretch in relation to the game of goose eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172606	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172608	Thank you. I think that sounds good, and I think that if you set those specific objectives and milestones for nature, these are the ones we have to work towards, and then we have to find out how we are working towards them. There we have a lot of science, and we have lots of scientists around, biologists who know something about what it takes. There has to be room for that, we have been told, and I think we are all ready for that, that is, that is what this is all about. But some space has more value than other space. Some space can actually both accommodate nature and so what does the minister think about doing a project, an arrangement or a course where we get the scientists in and along with them find out how we achieve those goals of a third of our land and water areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172700	I do not know what the Minister thinks it is the Minister himself who can explain it, but I think that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion was the rapporteur, that is to say the rapporteur for the Left. I think it is important that we look at, as the rapporteur rightly says, the science, the various stakeholders working on these things. I'm a layman in this. I also enjoy nature, as Mrs Mette Gjerskov described so beautifully before and as we all do. But I would also like there to be, it might be said, a connection in the things we do. Because there are quite a lot of suggestions about what needs to be done, and this is also the process which I understood the Minister has also described and which has been a little complicated because of corona. There are so many who are involved, but I just want to see things in a context instead of taking the first one the best tool. I want to have the most impact on the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172742	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172746	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now, after this resolution, we are going to debate the rapporteur's own resolution, but I will be so curious when I hear it here, because it is fantastic to see the Left in a new role when it comes to nature, after four years of desert migration. That is why I am a little curious to hear what is being said because everything that is being said is very open: with this new natural impairment that has happened in the Left, what considerations have been made about what objectives you want to set yourself? Well, how much nature should we have, whatever it is measured in percentages or acres? Where do you want to go? Because I think it's kind of floating and seems like you want a whole lot: we didn't do so much ourselves when we were in government, but now we want something; we just don't know what.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172832	Well, it's quite fair to ask that. I mean, what I'm just arguing for is that I also need to know, according to my answer to Mrs Susanne Zimmer before what we get out of it. I can set myself a target, for example, that it should not go back on red-list species over the next 10 years. I can also set myself the goal of having a certain number of hectares of untouched forest; we can also discuss that, but it is one of the tools we want to use ourselves. We have a desire for more forest at all. These are a lot of the tools that I see before me, but I would like to see it in a context to know where it is that we will have the most impact on money when we talk about protecting our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172913	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172915	It is worthwhile, but I also think it is important that we start to be concrete, because the natural crisis has been screaming for attention for so many years, rather than continuing to point out that we need to look at something and see what is best. There's one thing nature screams at, and that's space. And I really think it would be nice if we were to start being concrete about how much space we are going to put off now and here, perhaps next year, and what we are going to play in with. I think we owe it to each other to start to be much more concrete for the sake of nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110172950	But I do not think it is an end in itself to have, for example, a certain number of hectares with more space. I agree with the SF rapporteur that it is an end in itself to create more space, but that is not just the space in itself, but also the space in itself. Where is it that we can see that biodiversity can simply take shape that is stronger than if one chose another area? So there is a very, very big difference between whether you choose, let's say 1,000 ha in one place or 1,000 ha in another place, which might be very fragmented, rather than doing so in a context. So that's just like why I'm arguing that a number in itself doesn't do it, because that's where and how to use these tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173029	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we should welcome is the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173042	Thank you for that, President. Biodiversity law: Biodiversity takes up a great deal. It has not been so long since we had another word, and it was a circular economy, and when we talk about the environment and climate, there are some things that come up, and that is what we are talking about. What I think is most important is that we do something about it. That is why I would also like to acknowledge the proposal put forward here by Members outside the parliamentary groups. Because there is no doubt that biodiversity is under pressure out there. I also noticed the Minister's speech and I think we should be careful that we do not think it will be easy. This isn't 20 years of non-focus we're gonna fix. This is a focus that hasn't been there for many, many generations that we need to fix. We must be careful not to think that we can do this by finding some quick money and making something untouched forest, that then we are home safe, and then we can find a new word that we can stand down here in the Parliament hall with, and that is the new thing that we are working with. As far as the proposal is concerned, I also agree with the previous rapporteurs. This is, of course, a challenge because it requires that we take some country out and there must also be some funding for it. Of course there is. But what I think is the most important thing and I would also like to sign for that in relation to what the Minister said is that we will have some agreements on where we want to go. It is not enough for us to stop developments. We must also move forward and therefore have better biodiversity. We also have a proposal on it from the Left in a few moments, which shows that it is broad in this Chamber that biodiversity is on the agenda. I would say that we cannot vote in favour of this proposal. That's because it's too unconcrected when there's no money in it, and that's the way it is. However, I do not think the proposal is a bad proposal, and it also pushes on the agenda that there are from several parties. I also really hope that the Minister will carry out the broad and powerful green mandate, as the Minister said there is. I have also asked the Minister in the past how much money the Minister has. I have now put it in writing. The Minister has not replied yet, and that is not because the Minister has not replied within the time limit. But that's what it's gonna be about. For what are some low-level soils we can take out? What kind of combination are we gonna do? And let us not forget that it is not just about biodiversity. It is also about nitrogen and phosphorus. It's about a lot of other things. It is about how we make climate adaptation, how we use the nature we have at our disposal, with all the agendas that there are, in relation to that we humans should also be here and preferably in harmony with nature and the environment. So we cannot support the proposal, but it is definitely a proposal that we are taking down positively and also something that we are going to work on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173326	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment from Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173330	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I agree that this costs something. It has also done so to deal with the corona crisis, where we have found money, a lot of money. If we now look at those things that are playing together, then the rapporteur mentions exactly low-level soils, and this is an example of how we can do something really good for biodiversity, we can do something for nitrogen emissions, and we can do something for the climate. But what is the rapporteur's and DF's position on how much nature we should actually have when we reach 2025 and 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173411	René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173414	But I do believe that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution says so himself. We are in a situation where a great deal of money is being spent, and that also has to be done in the situation we are facing. But we also need to get an overview of where we are going. And we have to move, both in relation to corona and other things, also in relation to biodiversity and also in relation to climate • in relation to many agendas. That's why we have to be careful. Now we have made a law on a 70-percent reduction in climate change. There are great challenges in achieving this, and we must be careful not to become such a parliamentary assembly, which just promises each other that we will move very much towards 2030, and then some others will have to solve it for us. No, we also need to make some decisions so that we also move during the parliamentary period in which we are sitting here. That is why I really hope that the Minister will also call for broad negotiations, and I hope that we will be able to reach broad compromises where we will also have a look at how to move nature and the environment in a positive direction. And yes, it costs some money, and there we have to do it in reverse order: how much money can we find? I think we can find that mandate too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173512	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173514	Thank you. I was not fully aware of whether the rapporteur said anything about what the level of ambition was for DF, in terms of how much space nature should have. Are there any objectives for hectares or percentages of our country that DF and the rapporteur think are important to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173537	We think this is the backward approach to it. We think we should turn it around and look at what we have of opportunities and what kind of framework we can work within. Then it is also important for us to ask: How do we use these low - bottom soils? After all, we ourselves have put forward a proposal that low-level soils may also be used in other places where we get some phosphorus and nitrogen use out of it. For example, if you could put on solar cells and look at how we tax it, could we take out even more land? And then you have to say that it is not just taking out land, because it is also the right land that needs to be taken out. We would rather start at the other end, i.e. find the funding and then find out how much we can take out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173610	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110173625	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for this, I think, very good and constructive cooperation we have in this area. I think, in fact, that I have the experience that the government and, at least, the parliamentary basis, and perhaps the rest of the Folketing too, are very serious about the natural crisis, and I also think that we are taking small steps in the right direction, also faster than we have done in the past. This agenda didn't have the same impact at all if we just go back five years. I do not even remember talking about biodiversity five years ago. Yes, perhaps the most nerdly, but it was not in the same way a folk case and a case for all parties as it is today. So a lot has happened. But when it is not good enough, it is also because it is not a normal area and because we have actually got everything going, too late. Everything, far too late, we have realized that this crisis is almost as serious as the climate crisis. That is where we are too late, but we have been talking about the crisis for almost 20 years now. Now something is happening, but with regard to the biodiversity crisis, I would say that there has not been a debate as wide and wide as there is now. And I also think I can say that it has not been a priority which has been as high as it is now in the Folketing and in fact in a wide range of parties. That is why we are impatient because we have now understood how serious the situation is and because we have now understood that we stand almost two minutes to twelve and can save something, but that in reality there is a lot that has already been lost. Well, the last status showed that 4,500 species in Denmark are under threat. Around the world, it's up to 1,000,000. What I think really gave me something to think about was when, some time ago, but still not ten years ago, I found out that this was a very special time in human history, because we have never seen in our history, in the history of mankind, that species die so quickly around us, and that, moreover, it is our own fault. We have to go all the way back to the death of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago to find an equally rapid mass death among the species of the earth. This is insanely serious. We can therefore be glad that there is a common perception of the problem, that we are moving forward with small steps and that it is also going faster than it is in so many other areas, but given the seriousness of the matter, it is still not good enough. That is why we also believe that we should have a biodiversity law. We would actually like to start with the concrete initiatives first, i.e. a biodiversity package. We will be discussing this in a moment, because that is what is in the Left's proposal. It may be only the geeks who can tell the difference between the two proposals, but one is about the package and the other is about the law. After all, the package is about very specific initiatives. That's some of the things we've been talking about lately. They are national parks, they are untouched forests, and they are also things other than that where the law may be more thought of as such a kind of mechanism a little like in the climate area, where we set ourselves some goals and then work towards them. We are in favour of both. I would actually like us to have sat down and made the big biodiversity package this year, where we found out how to achieve the objectives of natural parks, untouched forests and so on in a short number of years. And once we had found the money and set it in motion, I think we should also have this biodiversity law, which goes even further. Denmark's Conservation Association has sent us a draft of the percentages. I think I might be asked that too, so I can already anticipate it now and say that one third, 30%. of Denmark, must be nature. The 20%. out of the 30%. must be strictly protected by nature. I think that sounds perfectly reasonable and reasonable. We ourselves played out a few years ago with a goal that we would take out a third of the farmland. This corresponds to approx. 20% of Denmark's area, so it is really a goal that escapes with what the Danish Nature Conservation Association has put forward. And that is why it is also what we imagine should be in such a biodiversity law. When we are not going to vote for it today, it is because we are engaged in some negotiations. But I also have to be honest and say that I hope so, but that I think it will be difficult to reach the goal of the big package now. That is why we have been tempted to see if we could reverse the order and say yes to the law first and then take the package afterwards. And the rest I think I'm gonna have to answer on the basis of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174140	There are a few questions. There's only one for Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174144	Thank you very much for a fine speech, even though it may have been shorted off here in the end. I'm just so curious. I'm sorry, but I am, because I really want to know what you're talking about. I understand that this is not the big package. That's how I understood Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Perhaps Mrs Zenia Stampe, as the one, could try to unveil what elements are on the table. Secondly, I am very pleased that Mrs Zenia Stampe signs up for the fact that the rest of us are now trying to offer ourselves with different proposals and ambitions; nature is, of course, all ours. How does Mrs Zenia Stampe view the possibility of being able to reach a broader agreement? I am not sitting here saying that we can make an agreement, because that depends, of course, on the substance. But can we just give it a chance? I have every respect for the fact that the Minister chooses to call the support parties alone, but would Mrs Zenia Stampe have a problem with the fact that the rest of us came to the table and could at least hear what was said about, so that perhaps we could also come up with some proposals that could do so in a purely political way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174243	I would like to say that my favourite scenario was, in fact, that a broad majority in the Folketing agreed on a large, ambitious biodiversity package, in which we found funding at the same time, so that all of us who want the green would like to find the money too. That is, in fact, the problem with regard to the financial law negotiations: that at present about 1.5 billion is being negotiated. kr., and with this biodiversity package, we're almost the same amount. So I do not think that one should be a professor to say this or that one will say something that one should not say out loud by saying that it is probably not entirely realistic that we are getting this whole package through now. I don't think I can see my watch. I'd like to say more, but I don't think I have any more time. Perhaps I can catch up with that in the next answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174336	Thank you. Sir. I give Jacob Jensen the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174340	I had the same problem myself before. I don't know if it's the technique that's teasing. But that's fine, thanks for the answer. I am thinking that it is also a question of getting those tools in use that give the best effect. I do not expect, either, and I fully agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe, that we will just, whether we go along with it or not, land the big package to what I know, several billions. kr. I do not think that is the time for all the other costs we have for corona, climate, etc. However, some of these things are linked, for example. to take out some soil, low bottom soil, and irrigate with water. That gives some CO2 how does Mrs Zenia Stampe see those connections? 'Cause there's a lot of balls in the air. Can we not think about it more than running it in a very isolated way in the course of negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174420	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174422	I think you have to take it for some rounds here. Because it is true that low bottoms are very much about climate, i.e. the removal of farmland and especially these low bottom soils. But that does not have much to do with securing the acutely endangered species, because it is not right on low bottom areas that they are right now. They may be in 100 or 200 years' time, when they have been allowed to turn into nature. I think that is part of the long-term plan for creating more nature in Denmark. But in the short run, when it comes to endangered species, it is forest that must be left untouched, it is natural parks, etc. So it's kind of a different bet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174501	Thank you. We need to know whether the President is standing. We are trying to misjudge that the clock has gone out over here with the rapporteurs. The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174514	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, it was nice to hear it. I hear that the rapporteur really wants a biodiversity law first and then a biodiversity package afterwards, but is ready to change the order. Then I think: what is it like in relation to each other? Was it not best to have a vision of what we are actually going to achieve, so we have a law that would frame the work under which the biodiversity package is to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174546	No, well, I really wanted the package first, because it is the urgent effort that you might call such a kind of emergency aid. Well, first we send emergency aid packages and then we come with development. For emergency aid is untouched forests and national parks, that is what can save those species that are threatened with acute danger right now, whereas the law is about how we actually move around our country, that is how we give nature more space, among other things. by extracting low bottom soil. It's not quite as urgent as it is, because it's a new nature. It is not because we are saving some endangered species right now by taking some land out of production, but that is what enables us to give nature more space in the long term. But the urgent action is the one that lies in the package, and that was the one that I would prefer to see as a broad majority in the Folketing that we had put together and agreed on efforts and also funding for, because it is, in fact, the funding that stands in the way now. That is why it is the funding that has taken a great deal of interest to me, because it is the one that is lacking. We quite agree on what needs to be done urgently. We don't have the money, but we could have it if we really wanted to and sat down together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174651	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174653	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that something is urgent, and that is quite right, because the animals are dying in front of us right now, and those who are extinct are not coming back. 42 per cent. of the animals threatened live only in the forests. That is why I fully agree that one of the things that is really important to get hold of is to have forests converted into untouched forests. I could hear the visions in relation to 2030, but what are the visions in relation to untouched forest in 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174726	Thank you. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174728	We haven't figured that out yet. In other words, what we have taken as a starting point is what the Social Democrats and the SF announced at the time. My own party had no objective in relation to untouched forest, but we should have had that, because it is very sensible to have. That is why we have set ourselves on the target they announced at the time, which was these 75,000 hectares. But the phase-in depends on money, and that's why I most certainly saw that we could meet and find the money and get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174802	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to point out that the clock is starting here, but it also stops, and we have to keep a close eye on it when the President gets up. I know it's a little annoying that you can't see how much time you have left. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110174825	Thank you. For too long, the alarm bells of the biodiversity crisis have been ringing, and for far too long nature has been screaming for attention and space. All too long it has not been acted upon, and that is why we are now in an acute crisis. We do not just do that in Denmark, we do so worldwide. And it just takes us all to pull on the work clothes and get started. What it is about is being concrete, going out and creating the space that nature needs and looking at where it is doing in the right places so that we get as much biodiversity as possible right away. And it is also a question of getting ourselves into concrete shape, in that when we say that something is protected nature, it is really protected. Today we call all sorts of things. But what is real protection? That's some of the really important stuff. That is, for example, the case. important when we stand and say that we have some areas at sea, which are Natura 2000 sites, that we then do not have bottom trawls running through and smashing the seabed, because it destroys the nature we have. What we are really concerned about from the SF is that we get started in a number of areas right away. That is why, before the elections, we put forward a plan that was very concrete, together with the social democracy around untouched forests and around national parks. That is why, yes, both myself and SF have been fighting for a biodiversity law for a long time, even back to 2016, when a proposal was put forward here in the Folketing. And what this is all about for us is not just saying that we need a biodiversity law because it is now a buzzword because we have got a good climate law. No, it is essentially about setting a direction and a goal and finding out what it is like to protect our nature, what it is like to ensure that we get the work on biodiversity and secure space. At the same time, we are concerned that we are making it concrete, that we can go out and say that we must have a plan for 75,000 hectares of untouched forest and 15 national parks, and that we will find the money for it, so that we get started now and here. It's also part of what we want. And at the same time, it is again about this very real protection: how do we ensure that in our legislation we do not just talk about nature and that there is room for nature, but that it is also legally protected? That is why we are also pleased that negotiations have begun with the government and with a number of other parties, the Alternative, the Enhedslisten and Radicals, both about the concrete action, that is to say, what we are going to do about the areas that need to be addressed, and at the same time also have a framework and objectives negotiated, because the two things go hand in hand. At the same time, as Mrs Zenia Stampe mentioned, there is the money, which, of course, also includes it, which is why this is also an integral part of the financial law negotiations that have started and in which we have pointed out that a proper sum of money will be set aside as early as next year for untouched forests and national parks. In our proposal we have also set aside money for a biodiversity council, which is also in the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution and which can give us advice. We also set aside money to create more nature at sea, etc. So we are actually acting in all three areas. That is what we are fighting for now in the negotiating room with the Minister, and I do not think that the Minister necessarily thinks that we are too compassionate all the time, because we actually mean this very, very seriously, and that is why we are going to continue to fight for it in the negotiations we are currently holding. That is why we cannot support this proposal either, as it is right now and here at first reading, but we are, of course, fighting further for our policy. We do that in the negotiating rooms. We do that all the way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175249	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175253	Thanks for the speech. I just need to ask briefly whether SF would have any problem sharing the negotiating room with the rest of us. I mean, it's not about us binding each other on reaching an agreement, because that depends, of course, on those negotiations. But could the SF see and have no problem with us getting involved in those negotiations as well? And then you have to see what you could get a majority for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175316	I was just about to be a little psyched in the line and say that this depends on the level of ambition with which we are going to enter the negotiating room. It is clear that I do not think I would like to share the negotiating room with those who are drawing down the ambitions, which we have unfortunately seen that the action has been so far by the Left. But no, we think it makes sense to negotiate widely on these matters. This is also just an integral part of the financial law negotiations that are also going on right now, because of course it is also about money. Things are linked, and that is why the negotiations are not just over quickly. We've had some preliminary rounds, and now we're going to talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175346	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175348	Thank you very much for that answer. In fact, I am genuinely pleased about that and I fully agree that things are precisely linked. Respect for the fact that it is an integral part of some financial law negotiations, but there may well be sub-agreements where some are involved, at least before the end of the negotiations and, of course, the big framework will eventually be created with the support parties that are normally involved. So that possibility is there, and I can already tell you here that, if we do not come up with our financial bill, there will also be a source of funding specifically for this purpose, so we agree that the economy must, of course, keep up with it. That is also a little why it was my appeal in relation to the specific proposal that this was not the case. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175426	That's nice to hear. I am, of course, looking forward to seeing that proposal, and again I would like to say that I am sincerely pleased with the natural deterioration which has also occurred in the Left. Because it's so important that we fight for this together. Nature out there is screaming at our attention... also the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175444	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175447	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for that fine speech. I would like to hear in concrete terms what SF's ambitions are in terms of giving nature more space. What is the level of ambition in 2025, and what is the level of ambition in 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175507	We went to elections on a plan called 15 national parks and 75,000 hectares of untouched forest, and we think that is something that should be rolled out, in other words, for which a plan has to be drawn up, during this parliamentary term. Whether it has been rolled out by 2025 or not, I cannot answer, but at least that is what needs to be done during this parliamentary term. In addition, we warmly support the EU biodiversity strategy and, of course, it applies to all countries; it applies not only to the others. And that is also why I made a great deal of comment about the oceans, because I think it is important that we do not forget that our seas also need that attention and that nature at sea also has it. It is not only about nature on land; it is also about the nature in our garden, and that is what we are also very concerned about. So that is the ambition: we, together with the rest of the European Union, of course, have the work on the biodiversity strategy, which is about 30%. nature and 10%. special protection. And, of course, we must also work towards new targets after 2030; it has not been done there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175609	Thank you. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175612	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions Natura 2000 areas in the seas, and it is the case that nine out of ten of the approx. 100 areas we have are not actually protected. 2% of our marine area is protected, so it's very poor. And some of what is happening is demersal trawling. Will the SF help to ensure that we are banned from bottom trawling in Natura 2000 sites?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175639	I think that's kind of unambitious. SF's policy is to phase out bottom trawling in Danish waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175647	Thank you for your answer. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110175657	Thank you. We are in a very serious biodiversity crisis, and fortunately everyone here recognises that. And the biodiversity crisis is often called the silent or silent killer. It may sound dramatic, but it is just called it because it is roaring away with very little attention. Just in my own lifetime, I've felt what it's like when you drive the road out there. There's just not as many bugs coming up on the window. You can see that nature becomes poorer and poorer. In fact, it has never been worse for species, and several species are threatened. Are we then in Denmark a pioneering country? No, I certainly don't think so. In fact, we are scratching the floor in relation to nature conservation in the European Union. That's because we use almost every square metre of our country. I therefore believe that we will leave our land poorer for future generations if we do not act now on the biodiversity crisis. Unfortunately, it is not as clear as the climate crisis. We do not see the great protests, the great movement that we are making when it comes to climate, and we must have changed that. There may be a biodiversity law some of what actually helps a way out of the natural crisis. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we of course also believe that one should have one, and we have meant that for a long time. Fortunately, the solutions to the natural crisis are easier than those of the climate crisis. The solutions are straight to the right leg, and they're pretty simple. They're called space. And we in the Enhedslisten would like to give that to nature. We entered the Enhedslisten a few years ago with a nature and biodiversity plan, where we suggested that 25% should be charged. of both land and sea areas are areas where nature has the first right. That is why I think we should also make a biodiversity law in Denmark, which, of course, means that we live up to international obligations, and that we are actually setting ourselves more stringent targets here at home, and that we also set up a biodiversity council, something that we have also worked for, among other things. in last year's financial law negotiations, which unfortunately did not succeed. However, we are still working this year and I hope and believe that we can actually have a biodiversity council. They would be able to do what the Climate Council is doing in the climate area today: advise the government and keep the Folketing in the ears in order to meet the objectives that already exist and that we do not meet. This will provide solid professional recommendations and at the same time ensure that we also provide solutions to the natural and climate crisis, which, unfortunately, risks going against each other occasionally. That is why I would also like to say about the proposal today that we are very much in favour of the intention and that it is a very good idea to have a biodiversity law. But we do not entirely agree with the underlying policy. We do not think that just 11.1%. the sea area must be a natural zone. As I said, we think it should be 25%. This is among other things. Therefore, that we in the Enhedslisten do not support the proposal at present. This is also due to the fact that we are currently negotiating with the government in a financial bill debate, where we are actually proposing, together with other parties fortunately, that there should be a biodiversity law in Denmark and that we should negotiate it here in the Danish Parliament. That is why we are not supporting the proposal at the moment, but I would like to open a door and say that if we do not manage to make a biodiversity law in the current financial legislative negotiations, we will, of course, seek the majority in the Folketing that might be able to make one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180111	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180115	Thank you. And thank you for the thoughts that are with Enhedslisten in terms of doing nature something good. I would say that we in the Free Greens will always agree to raise the level of ambition, including for the marine environment. So Mrs Mai Villadsen mentions the ambitions of Enhedslisten from earlier • How are the ambitions now in terms of giving nature space, both at land and at sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180144	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180146	Well, we work hard both in the financial law negotiations, but also in the climate negotiations that are, to ensure more room for nature. I hope, of course, that within the next month, or at least before New Year, we will have a financial law in place, in which a great deal of agricultural land will be taken out, which will also be given to nature, and that we will have natural parks. In the Enhedslisten we want to get 35 in total until 2030. I hope that we can get a budget and we have submitted funding for 15 over the next three years; I hope that will be possible in this budget debate. So these are some of the ambitions we have here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180230	Thank you. There is no further request for a brief comment, so I will give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180236	Thanks for a nice speech. I just have a short question. Now the Enhedslisten rapporteur mentions this with a biodiversity law, and one thing is that you make a law, but the important thing is, of course, like what is in the law, you can say. How does Enhedslisten view making a law where you also have binding targets, in other words a little like what we have done in the climate area? Then, of course, you can ask what the objectives are, and that is of course worth a discussion, but the fact that we are making it binding will, after all, mean that what we agree on in some form of majority, hopefully a broad one, can also be said if some form of change of government should take place. How does Enhedslisten view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180318	After all, I believe that what we have done together, a large majority in the Danish Parliament, in relation to the Climate Act, is quite exemplary and something we need to copy in the field of nature and biodiversity. I believe, of course, that we should have a biodiversity law. It does not need someone to copy the Climate Act, but of course it must have binding targets because then it will ensure that the current government has obligations to live up to and to prevent the natural crisis that we are facing right now or in fact in the middle of. So we fully agree that there should be binding targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180354	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to Mrs Mai Villadsen. Then we welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180406	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. I am a substitute for our environmental rapporteur, who was also a substitute for Mette Abildgaard. As a child on Saturday night, when you have been under the table and seen Jacques Cousteau and have been on the board of the World Wildlife Fund, it is a pleasure to be allowed to be a substitute today. We would very much like to support biodiversity in Denmark and on our planet. That is not the direction in which we will disagree, but only the objectives, means and pace of action. While the world is getting warmer, living conditions for animals and plants are changing at an ever - increasing rate. It pushes a number of species, and with the latest inventory of biodiversity status in Denmark it has become clear that Denmark is low in international measurements, among others. because of our status as an effective agricultural country and the lack of extensive natural areas. It is therefore time to take action to preserve our nature and safeguard some of the vulnerable natural areas. That too has been fought for several times here. It is important that we do the right thing. We can't do everything for all species. We must choose what we want to prioritise and how best to ensure the ecosystems that make the best sense to protect. Here we still lack knowledge. As an example, we have still not identified the unique conservation areas that exist in private forests. It is obvious that there are areas here that we can and must ensure better than today. If European action to increase biodiversity is to make sense, it is essential that overall planning ensures migration corridors for species that are forced to migrate, for example. Because of global warming. That is why there is a need for coherent nature and for the conservation of forests and land, for example. through nature parks, planning the exploitation of our agricultural land and the identification of ecosystems worthy of conservation are being considered together. The key words are to think it together. It is only through a substantial co-thinking of various nature initiatives that we can make a meaningful effort to improve biodiversity in Denmark. The resolution we are working on here binds the government to submit a biodiversity bill by the end of this year, which will put in place efforts to ensure our biodiversity by 2030. We believe that this requires knowledge and a level of planning that is not yet in place. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180612	Thanks to the Conservative substitute. She did great. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180623	Thank you for the floor. Biodiversity is the diversity of life on earth in all its forms. Healthy ecosystems contribute many necessary things that we take for granted. Biodiversity gives us clean air, fresh water, healthy soil, pollination of crops, diversity in nature allows us to thrive. New citizens, of course, want to safeguard the country's common resources, including nutrient-rich land, clean groundwater and fishing coastal waters. We welcome national parks and cross-municipal nature parks when they are established according to local wishes in conjunction with agriculture. Nature parks can also help to preserve the peculiar Danish nature. We are dealing with a resolution after what we are dealing with now, which is also about biodiversity. Here, negotiations on a package of nature and biodiversity will be launched. The present motion for a resolution provides for a specific law. We think it would be right to have a debate on the content. New citizens cannot therefore support motion for a resolution No. B 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, of course, that just came one here on the slippery slope. Here you go, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180752	Thank you. Specifically, I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about natural parks. Is this something that you can see a future in getting more of compared to national parks where there is less protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180810	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180811	We are in favour of national parks and, of course, we will enter into a specific discussion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180822	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110180833	Thank you for the floor. I live in the middle of the biodiversity in Ribe, on the edge of the marsh, and it is an incredible joy when I am there and do not have to do my job in the Folketing. And when I look at the enormous flow of people who come and visit us, I can see how many others that is also a joy for. So biodiversity is something that we should be happy about, it is something that we must cherish, and it is something that we must work for. In my party, however, we are also sorry that the centre has disappeared on a whole range of issues relating to nature and the environment, and we would like to see some kind of political centre come back. There we think that the next proposal we are going to deal with will probably go further towards creating a more broad consensus than chasing through a law by the end of the year, as the resolution says. It is 10 November today and I simply do not think that anything very good will come of taking it seriously and chasing through a law so quickly. So, yes to biodiversity, but as the proposal here is designed and with the tough deadlines, that is not something we can support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181010	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment to be made: the rapporteur must stay here. Here you go, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181015	Thank you. It takes some time to get such a biodiversity law sent in and to deal with it. If we now said that the demand for submission was postponed until the summer of 2021, what would the rapporteur say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181034	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181035	I still think that there is too little room for a political debate and a political priority, because the proposal is designed in such a way that objectives from the United Nations must be implemented in a relatively slavish way, and so what are called scientific objectives. Now I am also both the health rapporteur and the food rapporteur and have had a great deal to do with the corona epidemic, and I just have to say that some politicians have to get into such situations. This is how to implement recommendations from e.g. The UN thinks I'm a dangerous way to go. I am therefore more in favour of sitting down and negotiating on something, including funding and priorities, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we have to put the alternative rapporteur on the platform, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181139	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we were very pleased that S and SF went to the polls that we should have a biodiversity package. Denmark really needs that. Then the government only set 50 million. kr. Of course, we were just as disappointed as all the green organisations were in the budget legislation of this year. But when it was announced that we were going to negotiate the biodiversity package anyway, we were happy again. But when we came up with our big catalogs, three big catalogs with targets for wild nature and the development of marine national parks and wild forest and natural national parks and stone reefs and all, we found out that it was just about translating these 50 million. kr., and then our mood fell somewhat. What we have then done is that we are simply trying to lift the negotiations. We are fighting to lift the negotiations to a level that is a little similar to what we did in the climate area, where, in the alternative, we succeeded in bringing together the parties around the major climate target that we had proposed ourselves. What we would like to see is that we simply make a goal, that we make a biodiversity law with a target of 10%. Strictly protected nature by 2030, and then we work up there year by year, provide funding and achieve that goal. So what we are negotiating right now is actually one of the things Susanne Zimmer is proposing as a fresh kick in for the idea catalogue. You then use the words dream and play about it, and that is not quite how we negotiate. Well, we're negotiating pretty seriously at the Ministry of the Environment at the moment. I can remind Susanne Zimmer that less than 1%. of the Danish nature is strictly protected today, and probably less than 2%. At sea. So we really, really need to get up. All of these protection categories have been totally messed up. There are all sorts of different types of protection categories, and when we register for the UN, 17 per cent. of the Danish nature is protected, it is also golf courses and all sorts of places, which at least in our optics are not protected nature. We need to clean that up. We need to find out what is protected, we need to have proper protection categories, and then we simply need to have a percentage of strictly protected nature per year. At sea, of course, we must ensure that for example. The Øresund is completely protected and becomes a marine national park, for it is a fantastic breeding area for especially cod angel in the huge eelgrass belts. We had the pleasure of seeing a tuna of 300 kg jump out of the water when we were out there with the Committee on the Environment, and I think that it is on all of our retina as the image of an animal, almost as big as a car that has come back to the Sound and can be seen out there if you are lucky. We saw that day. There are also hundreds of guinea pigs we saw only a few. But the Øresund is a unique gem in Danish nature because you haven't had to use bottom trawls since, I think it's 1926, and that's the way we're going in Danish waters. Much of it can be restored and become really, really nice and fine nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181512	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to remind you that we are directing each other with Mr. and Mrs., and that is Mrs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181523	Thank you. I should just like to make sure that I understood what the rapporteur said correctly in relation to the percentage of strictly protected nature we must have. 10% I understand, but is that it, or is there a number next to it? In other words, we should not comply with the EU's targets in terms of biodiversity of 30%. in 2030, or where does the alternative stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181548	I would like to draw the attention of the Greens to the fact that the 30% of this is the case. It does not apply to really protected nature. Well, I don't think Mrs. Susanne Zimmer should hang her hat on those. It's all messed up with those protection categories. We are telling the United Nations at the moment that we have 17 per cent. protected nature, and when you look for it is much more than strictly protected nature; it is barely protected nature. It can, for example, be done. be golf courses, farmland or things that are not particularly protected. So we're having a little trouble taking those 30 percent. Seriously. We think we should be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181622	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181624	I can only agree with Mr. Torsten Gejl in that it's hard to take those numbers seriously. And these are not the people we work with in the Free Greens either. Well, we work with protected nature. Two thirds of the one third that must be protected by land must be strictly protected. And we're not talking about fields or golf courses. But I also thought I heard the figure of 50 million. kr., and that number is working the alternative to get up to get some of this through. How much does it need to get up for the alternative to go with?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181659	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181701	Well, in the long run, we're talking about billions. And the resolution tabled by Mrs Susanne Zimmer here also needs funding of perhaps 50 billion. kr. or 100 billion. kr., if you really had to comply with it. What we need at the moment is to ensure some long-term objectives. I just think that what we call the biodiversity package will be approaching 1 billion. kr., and there I would like us to make some long-term goals and say: 'Those are the ones we have to achieve'. Then we don't have to fund 1 billion. kr. in this round, but we simply have to come up with that in ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181738	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110181756	The free, wild nature and biodiversity are under threat, ecosystems are collapsing, species are dying out and disappearing at an extremely high rate. It is estimated that the earth has lost half of its wild wildlife in the last 40 years. Several reports show that since the extinction of the dinosaurs, as many species of animals have disappeared as quickly as they are today. Worldwide, one million species are currently threatened with extinction. In Denmark, one in four mammals is threatened, and 42 per cent. of the species registered are under threat and in decline. How can we afford to eradicate animal species, destroy natural habitats and destroy the livelihoods of those who live on nature in other countries? We humans are part of nature, but many of us have unfortunately lost contact with nature and feel very much no longer as part of it. We overlook the fact that we need nature, both physically and mentally. We have made ourselves rulers of it and destroyed it without thinking about the costs it entails in the long run. Our next generations will have a poorer world to live in if we do not change course now. In the time of corona, many people have experienced the joy of nature. Many more have been out in the wild; people have met with each other, walked and been together in new ways with less risk of infection. Nature also gives us mental vitamins. We walk in nature; we may hear a branch crack, it cracks, or that there is a bird rattling in the bush. And all the while, the system that sorts information in everyday life gets a break," says Ulrika Stigsdotter, professor at the University of Copenhagen. We have a busy everyday life, so we need decoupling, and that is why we need to protect nature, but we also need to protect nature for nature's own sake, for our own sake, but also for our future generations. We are one of the countries in Europe that has the poorest nature protection and, together with Bangladesh, we are the most cultivated country in the world. Both clearly have tangible consequences for nature and biodiversity. For example, 11 day butterflies have disappeared from Danish nature in the last 50 years, the population of vibes and song larks has fallen by 76 per cent respectively. 65 per cent and 65 per cent. Since 1976, 50 of our 287 wild bee species have not been seen since 1974. In addition, the latest NOVANA report, the Danish Nature Agency's programme for monitoring the Danish nature, shows that the Danish forests are miserable. We have, for example. only 6,1 m3 dead at pr. hectares where we had to have between 30 and 50 m3 in order to be able to support biodiversity roughly and 130 m3 if we had untouched forest. As many food chains start in death by, among other things. Bugs, it has great consequences for our wildlife, for birds and for life at all. And 62%. of our species are endangered species, 44 of which live only in forests. Natura 2000 areas in the sea account for 18%. of our marine waters. These are areas that are special habitat types or where there are wild animal and plant species, but only in fact 10%. protected. This means that nine out of ten of the areas are not protected, either portrait, fish or mammals. According to the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the World Nature Fund, Denmark fulfils one of the UN's Aichimål, one is on its way, seven are in decline, and one of them is about nature conservation. This is despite the fact that those targets were set in 2010. However, they were not complied with, and this was extended until 2020, which means that things are still very bad. That is why the Free Greens want a biodiversity law that sets national targets and milestones that will ensure that many years of decline can be turned into progress. The Biodiversity Act must include concrete objectives for Danish natural policy towards 2030, and it must ensure a rich, diverse and wild nature. The objectives must include targets for natural areas, for the quality of nature and for the protection of species and habitats. Furthermore, the law must ensure that natural policy is designed in accordance with scientific recommendations and ensure compliance with the EU biodiversity strategy and the UN Global Biodiversity Goals. Free Greens believe that serious responses to the natural and biodiversity crisis are urgently needed, and all researchers, like you in this Chamber, say that more space is needed. More space is essential for nature • for all the life, animal and plant life that we share the planet with. And that applies both on land and on water. That is why we are specifically proposing the introduction of a real biodiversity law in Denmark, inspired by the Climate Act. The law must include at least one third of our land as protected nature by 2030 at the latest. Of these, two thirds must be turned into natural zones where biodiversity is the first priority, which means that there must be no commercial operation, neither agriculture nor forestry. We must also have one third of our marine areas as protected nature by 2030, and at least one third must be protected from all forms of exploitation and serve as a scientific reference area. We need areas where portrait is allowed to develop freely and where we have measuring points as a basis for how we handle the rest of the sea. By 2030 at the latest, we want all state forest, i.e. 110,000 hectares, laid out for untouched forest, of which 75,000 hectares are to be laid out for untouched forest in 2025. In addition, 50,000 hectares of private forest must be classified as untouched forest by 2030 at the latest. And in private forests, there are already large, fine biodiversity areas that we must preserve. At present, national parks in no way meet international standards, and a large part of our national parks are agricultural land and cities. Free Greens want us to have a requirement in the National Park Act by 2025 to comply with the international nature protection organisation IUCN category II, which means that it must be either clean or almost clean natural areas. By 2050 at the latest, all natural habitats shall, where physically possible, have favourable conservation status and conservation status. This means that we must ensure that protected areas are actually protected. For example: one third of Natura 2000 areas are genuine agriculture. In Natura 2000 areas of the sea, too, bottom trawls are fishing, as we know are damaging the marine environment. The Biodiversity Act must ensure real protection. The law must be able to require the authorities to monitor species and habitat types in order to obtain reliable information on the state of species and habitat types. Without a real picture of how developments are in nature, we cannot take the measures and make the legislation that is needed. The Biodiversity Act must be able to oblige the authorities to review, identify and remove rules and incentives that weaken biodiversity. The Act aims to ensure that state and municipal natural and forest land is primarily managed with biodiversity in mind, and thus the Danish Nature Agency's agricultural practices are immediately increased. And the law must provide the legal basis for the construction of national natural parks, both on land and at sea. The law must oblige Denmark to comply with the international standards and objectives that we have acceded to in the United Nations and the European Union. Free Greens want a biodiversity law that ensures a permanent and independent research-based biodiversity council, according to the model of the Economic Council or the Climate Council. The Biodiversity Council shall be able to address issues and themes of its own motion and shall be equipped with a professionally relevant secretariat. The Council shall regularly make a professional assessment of whether the government currently in office is carrying out nature efforts in accordance with the objectives of the Biodiversity Act and Denmark's international obligations. In order to ensure an ambitious effort and to demonstrate whether the current action meets the objectives of the Biodiversity Act, the Biodiversity Act should be endowed with concrete objectives that support the necessary momentum in the work. It is proposed that the Biodiversity Council evaluate the Government's efforts on an ongoing basis and make concrete recommendations for future action. As rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on the adoption of a biodiversity law, and I refer to the comments accompanying the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110182814	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110182900	The debate is open. Here you go, the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110182904	Thank you. After all, we have already started the debate that not only are we in the midst of a corona crisis as a country, but that we are also in a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. And a number of the challenges it brings, namely that it is a burning platform in terms of losing thousands of species at home that are at risk; that our own reports about Denmark's nature show that nature has not improved; that we have lost 3 million birds over the past 40 years, says clearly that there is a need to act. Therefore, despite the corona crisis we are in the middle of, the government has also given priority to putting aside these 200 million. kr. extra over the next four years, so that we can ensure that we can also take new steps with the financial law that is now being adopted here to take better care of our common nature. And, as I said, we have set out to focus money on national parks and untouched forests, because we know that many of the species that are in danger of disappearing completely at home live there. In addition to the efforts already made by the government, it is nice to have thoughtful thought from the Left in relation to the whole of the green area. However, some of what we did not talk about very much in the discussion of the previous resolution is, of course, all the measures that have been taken to clean up the situation in relation to where we took over. Just to mention a few specific examples, last autumn the government concluded an agreement with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to triple the effort in targeted nitrogen regulation in 2020 compared to 2019 precisely to ensure that we also tightened up the nitrogen regulation that was needed. In June, we followed it up with a series of new measures which, with the phasing-in from this year, will also help to further strengthen nitrogen regulation. Another example is: To take better care of our aquatic environment, we also announced that we do not want more or larger marine farms in Denmark. We are currently also discussing this bill in this Chamber. Thirdly, we must say that with a certain amount of discussion we adopted what we had said we wanted before the elections, namely that in Denmark, i.e. in section 3 areas, we no longer have to plow, fertilise or spray. And the ban is going to have an important impact on many of the common species, for example. the wings, that is, some of the birds we have lost in the open country. There we had a really, really big discussion with the blue parties here in the Folketing, who ended up voting against it. So it's nice to see that there's this interest in nature. In addition to cleaning up the last resolution, I have already mentioned many of the steps taken by the government, together with our parliamentary basis, to ensure a better nature: more untouched forests; stop the commercial chainsaw in the forests that were otherwise designated to be untouched forests, but where the chainsaw could continue as far as 2066; Denmark's first two national parks of nature, where we put out the large grassers, which the researchers also want to see, and which we have long wanted to have done in Denmark; money for stone reefs; protection of particularly vulnerable nature; several billions for the removal of low bottom soils, which are both good for the climate, but also for our nature and the aquatic environment; and then there is the Climate Forest Fund, which will start here from 1 January next year, where there are the first 100 million. kr. to build on here too. So, as with the previous proposal, I support the wish that we take better care of our nature. To that there is just to say that the government is already in the process of negotiating new initiatives in the field of nature. In that process I have also spoken to all the parties of the Folketing, and those negotiations are not over yet, and we are very happy to listen to the concrete proposals that the Left also has in this area. So also a receipt for all the parties that I have met with, for the desire, despite the disagreements that may be that we are moving nature forward, and for the Folketing to have discovered the natural crisis that we are in the middle of, and it is only time. However, the government's approach, as I said earlier, is also concrete action where we find funding for the things we want to do, as we have already done in a number of areas. We believe that it is essential that we put action behind words and that we also ensure that the ambitions we have actually materialise. So just to repeat what I said during the discussion of the previous proposal: the ambitions that we announced before the elections are still there; we are working on them on an ongoing basis and we must also give priority to funding for the interventions. We have put this into the draft Finance Act, but we stand by everything we have said before. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183445	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183451	I would like to thank the Minister for a very positive speech, which I think is also positive about the intention behind the proposal. Now things in nature are rarely black and white. Now the Minister mentions the vibe, and just to give an example, I would like to say that, for example, when you set agricultural land for ecology, for which there is also an ambition, you have to ride with a so-called finger harrow to harve the weeds instead of spraying against the weeds, some bird nests are actually affected, among other things. Vibens. It was just to say that there are many examples of things not being black and white, and that is what I want to contribute to nuance and perhaps bring into that negotiating room. So thank you for that we could have and also have an ongoing dialogue about it. However, I would just like to ask the Minister if it is possible to come in and see the negotiating proposal that I understand is being negotiated around • there is such a slightly different view of how big it is and what it is that is being discussed in concrete terms. But I would like to ask if we could be able to join in and then I will not say that we should then also make an agreement; we can then look at that if we do not have the opportunity to see what is being negotiated and then give our opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183557	First of all, I do not think anyone here is claiming that things are black and white. But what we could just see when we took over government was that nature had not improved; that the reports kept coming into my office and showed that the state of nature out there is too bad. And there are also a number of decisions that were taken under the previous government, with which we had a vertical disagreement. And there is a very good example of some of what the Left rolled back which we had introduced, and now we have voted it through again. And that's not the way I think we're going to do nature policy, that is, where it first goes a little forward, but then a little back again and then a little forward again. But that does not change the fact that precisely this proposal we know will benefit nature in those places, and I also think it is time after 30 years of a nature protection law in relation to this that those areas will actually be exempt from plowing, spraying and fertilizing there just to take the vibe issue. As far as negotiations are concerned, I have had a discussion with all the parties of the Folketing, and I would like to continue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183705	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183706	I am, of course, very pleased that we can continue to do so, and I would also like to contribute to that. The question is therefore more whether we can get or see the plan or what is, after all, what the government is playing out with, which in some way always forms the starting point for such a debate. So I actually take that down positively, and I look forward to having a cup of coffee again with the minister, where we may be able to get a little closer to it. And that is also the intention of the proposal we are discussing here, namely that we can have it put forward not only to the support parties, but to all those who may be able to contribute to a broader political anchoring precisely to avoid what the Minister says going back and forth; nature does not benefit from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183751	After all, we have already had several discussions on how we can take better care of nature. One of the things I am listening to is some of the concrete efforts that we have been talking about here: natural parks, untouched forests, many of the efforts aimed at the vulnerable species there. But there is also the whole question of the removal of low bottom soil, the question of the aquatic environment, nitrogen and some of the other things that I heard the Left say before. And we would also very much like to make broad agreements in this government, and we would also like to listen to it if the Left has concrete ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183823	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183824	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. Now the Minister is talking about the fact that sometimes both biodiversity and climate can benefit at once. And my question ends up: what can the Minister do to think more in terms of things? And climate and nature will, for example. in agriculture in relation to low-level soils, the often need to complement each other so that it can benefit both. However, in relation to agriculture, we have a new CAP system on the way, with large amounts set aside in relation to nature. What is the cooperation between the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Food in terms of spending that money? Because now the economy has filled a lot in this last point, so there's some money there that's actually got a lot of money. Can they be put into play in terms of helping nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110183924	First of all, with regard to the question of synergies: if we want to achieve everything we want on the green • and that is both our 70-percent target, but it is also to act on the biodiversity crisis • it will require us to think things together and not think so silo-based. After all, there are a number of the measures that have been mentioned in today's debate, which are examples of how they benefit each other. But it is not always that there is a synergy effect, and therefore there is a need for separate plans and initiatives in both areas. But where it can be thought together, we must, of course, do so. In relation to the CAP, I very much agree that the whole greening of agricultural aid is one of the things Denmark has worked very actively on, i.e. the gross land model, which ensures that it is possible to maintain its aid per hectare, knowing that there are some small biotopes, i.e. scrubs, small, smaller natural areas, which will no longer actually be under farming in the same way as it has had to do now, when you have had to plow it all up to get your support. So it is a Danish print, and that is of course one of the things we will also be pursuing in the agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184031	Thank you. A brief comment was made by Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184034	So, in relation to the aid per hectare and if you could keep it, even if there are some corners and so on.: That's really nice. But then there are also ecostreams, and then there is 30 per cent chance of transferring from column 1 to column 2. So it can really push something, 'cause we're talking 30 percent here. of 10 billion kr., we can move with you. So that's what I was asking, because it's money that can make a big difference to nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184103	It is not always as much time as one might wish, so I will take it up where I left off. In other words, in addition to the gross area model, which is a clear Danish image, we have also wanted agricultural subsidies to contribute to the green conversion that is to be done by agriculture. The rapporteur specifically asked whether there is cooperation, including with the Minister for Food. It is there, and some of what we said at the delegate meeting in Agriculture & Food, when we made speeches there, was, of course, that we have made an effort to think these actions together, in other words the synergies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184136	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184150	Nature is in crisis. We must not have followed this debate for very long today in this Chamber in order to be very clear: we are in the midst of a mass extinction of species, and action and space must be taken. That is what is fundamental to ensuring a better and green future. That is why I should also like to thank the Left for giving us the opportunity to take this discussion again in this Chamber. Because there's a need for that attention. Our nature needs that attention. It's depressing every time we see a new report, because for some reason it never goes forward. It always goes back. So we need action, and I have to say that I think we have delivered a great deal in this government's lifetime. We could hear it from the Minister before in relation to untouched forest and stone reefs and protected beaches and protected butterflies, and the list is incredibly long. And so, of course, I also think that this is something that is very heartfelt with us in the Social Democratic Party that it is wonderful that the Left is now joining the field for the sake of nature. In other words, the seriousness of the situation has fallen in relation to the fact that Denmark's nature and biodiversity are important to the Left. That is what the Left writes in the motion for a resolution. Well, you can't help but smash that message from the new green line of the Left and the Left. You have to do that. But then it's just that when you read the motion for a resolution and now it's shockingly short it doesn't take that long. I would like to say that I have never seen a resolution in such a large area, which was so short. Four lines, and it's actually only two, because it's columns. That's four lines: the government has to make a move. There's nothing about the Left doing anything. It is the government that has to make a move with binding targets, and that is not all, because there is no word about where the money should come from, how much money should be spent, what they should be spent on, and not a word about how the Left will contribute to funding, not a word about the priorities. And then you try to look at the Left's draft Finance Act, and there's nothing in it either. That is why we can have some doubts as to whether we have actually gone much further. I doubt whether we have gone much further than the time of the previous Blue Government, when the natural negotiations of the Left ended up with Conservatives simply abandoning them and announcing and now I just have to find the right quote: there was a draft agreement with some natural objectives, but they were not ambitious enough for Conservatives to be able to name them. And then it may well be that that's what explains why you don't come up with any goals here yourself compared to this package. But I can say, and the Minister also told me, that there are discussions with the Left on this package and on nature. There are debates right now, discussions on how to do things in the future, but, of course, discussions which should also be linked to financing. That's what we think is the best or not the best; we think it's pretty crucial so we know what we're dealing with. We don't need too many birds on the roof. Biodiversity and nature need concrete promises, which will be concretely met by concrete money, for which there is a concrete majority in this Parliament. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution, but it does not change the fact that work on both nature and biodiversity is continuing, and it is going to continue in that I think I can say the whole life of this government, no matter how long it lasts. Because there's a huge task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184653	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. I do not know whether the President can comment on this at all, but birds on the roof are exactly what we are discussing. Mette Gjerskov But the birds on the roof have flown away, that's it!). Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184707	I just thought we needed birds on the roof; I thought so. Well, now we shouldn't make this a matter of birds on the roof, because it's really serious enough, but there must of course also be room for such a thing. I just want to say that we have not been in any discussion with the Minister about any specific package at least not yet, but I heard before the Minister say that she would like to discuss it with us. It can be said that the proposal has been put forward here. It must also be included in the story at a time when there was no proposal and when the government announced that this package would be postponed for another year. So, after all, we have come so far with the proposal that it has been a part of it, and I hope it will be able to give the negotiations that we are not yet part of. We have not discussed any package. And that is a little what I would like to ask Mrs Mette Gjerskov, namely whether Mrs Mette Gjerskov cannot see that we can also be involved in discussing it. It may well be that we cannot achieve a goal and there may be disagreements, a history and everything, but can we not sit together? In addition to that, how do Mrs Mette Gjerskov and the Social Democrats think that a biodiversity law can be drawn up with binding targets? Could we try to talk about how it could be screwed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184818	A biodiversity law is an option, but that is not our first choice. Our first choice is to sit down and make absolutely clear agreements on the Finance Act and get something on nature. That is how we have made the first funding of natural parks, and that is how we get rock reefs, that is how we get untouched forests. These are quite specific projects that are being implemented. It is not because there is something wrong with having objectives, but these are not just objectives but also realistic projects. And in a coronatide, where the whole world is low, one can almost say, it is quite difficult to find funding for everything one might dream of. That is why I am actually quite proud that we have found funding also in this year's draft Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184920	Thank you. Once again, it is a brief comment to Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184923	It is quite true that it may be difficult to find it, but it is also a matter of priority. After all, there was a priority in relation to a previous pension, and I am not going to start a long discussion on that, but it was there, and that is several billion kroner a year. After all, it is a question of whether you want to give priority to this, including in a financial law. We will also get to that with our proposal for a Finance Act. So Mrs. Mette Gjerskov doesn't have to be afraid of that. But what is it actually that is opposed to making binding targets? We have done so in the area of climate change. So what would the problem be by repeating the success, if you may say so, in the field of nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184956	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110184958	I'm sure sir. Jacob Jensen can see it. Now we are well off in November, and the question is whether the Left will be able to come up with their proposals for a financial law before the negotiations are over. After all, we need clear answers from the Left about where the money is going to come from for these things and for nature. It is true that this is extremely important. That is also why money must be spent on it. That is also why the government has actually prioritised it in its draft Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185034	Thank you to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is the rapporteur of the DF, Mr. René Christensen. We're gonna skip the proposers, so here you go, Mr. Simpson. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185055	Thank you, President. Yeah, sorry, I thought I was next first. This is a little the same as we used to have on biodiversity, and I shall not make the same speech again, apart from saying that this is, of course, an important area. I have to say, however, that when we look at the proposal from the Left, we think it is more edible than what we had in the past, from the parties outside the groups, and that is because we are proposing that there should actually be a dialogue on where we are going. We believe this in the Danish People's Party is the most important thing to talk about how we are going to solve the task we are facing. Then there's also the fact that if we're going to solve the problem, we're going to have to find the economy for it, and this is not going to be free. We would like us to also solve it across the parties: how do we find the economy to solve the tasks that we face, especially when we talk about nature and biodiversity? That's the way to do it. It's solving these things together, so that we don't see nature and biodiversity becoming a political battlefield where we can see that in changing elections there is a changing focus in relation to solving this. Because that's the long, tough move that's gonna save what we're dealing with right now. But you have to be careful too. It was said well enough in the previous proposal that we have not seen anything worse, and that is 65 million. Years ago. You also have to be careful not to draw things so badly that you completely give up the hope that we can make it right. Because of course we can. But it's about economy, and it's about will. That is why we really think that this proposal from the Left is a positive one, which calls for dialogue across the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185233	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then I do not immediately see any representative of the Radical Left. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the SF... Sorry, Mrs. Zenia Stampe was in the hall... coming straight from the side walkers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185300	Actually, I was in the next room. You can. For those who sit and come out there, I can tell you that we have a room next to where you can follow. But suddenly things went a little fast. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support this proposal, although we are actually happy with the intention. After all, it is precisely calling for negotiations on a biodiversity package. It doesn't say anything about the funding. However, as I mentioned in the previous debate, it was in fact our favourite scenario: that we, a wide range of parliamentary parties, all those interested in biodiversity met, negotiated a package and found the funding. That would have been our best-case scenario. But now we are engaged in some negotiations with the government, or perhaps they should be called probes, and then we hope to be able to go some way in the Finance Act. But then we hope to be able to return to a slightly broader discussion, including with the rest of the Folketing, on the other side of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185400	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. I just wanted to make a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185403	Thanks for the speech. I also take this down positively, and I believe that we share many of the ambitions in any case. But this seems to me to be just calling for a broader discussion, that is, a broader political discussion. Because there is what the Minister also said before that there are some corners of what one government or a majority is rolling out, and the other is doing something else, and then it goes a little back and forth. And as Mr. René Christensen rightly says, I think, that this area calls for a larger width and a longer cool move. That is a bit of a reason why I am also trying to suggest that if only we could try to reach a broad political agreement, precisely with the aim of making the long, tough move. Then we won't all get through it, of course. We can get some elements through and others can have some other priorities, and I have deep respect for the fact that the support parties are somehow first-right. That's the way it has to be. Nevertheless, we can make that width so that we can have stability and a direction, and we will also have binding targets for what we want. That is what the proposal is intended to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185509	Indeed, it can be said that that is also why I would rather have seen us negotiate on a different track from the financial law track, because the financial law trail is so often a narrower track because it is the government and its parliamentary basis. However, I have the feeling that there are some clues that are also broader than just parliamentary basis in relation to this financial law. That's why I thought it had been the best scenario. When it's ended up like this, it's probably in fact because a few months ago, the government postponed the negotiations until next year. And then we were, after all, a parliamentary basis which said: we cannot live with that, we simply have to get started. And the outstretched hand we saw from the government was: Well, then let's start on that in the finance negotiations. We can hardly get through with the whole package, but then we can still get a grip on some of what we all agree on should be part of the package. But I completely agree with the Left that this is not the best solution. The best solution would have been for us to have had a broad debate on the whole package and broadly in the Folketing and also on the financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185613	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185616	However, the proposal here has just been put forward, just as Mrs Zenia Stampe says, on the basis of the scenario that the government chose to postpone the whole discussion here for a year with reference to corona and difficult to finance and such things. That is what made me say to myself, at least, that we need to give a loving hand in order for the government to get to work on this. Then I am not saying that we can then agree on it, but I just wanted to see what the government had of intentions and then we would like to play a part. That is what this proposal is all about, and I hope that the Radicals will continue to do so, even though some discussions or probes are under way, to see the idea that we are also making a broader political cut than making it very narrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185655	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185657	Now I do not fully remember the wording, but what I remember is that I thought: 'Oh, there is nothing about funding in that wording.' That is where I also have to say that it is a little free of charge as the opposition party to say that it is, moreover, a bit the same discussion we have in connection with the next motion for a resolution that now the government has to put up a plan and disk with some money. I don't think the piano plays that way either. I actually think there too that although Mr. Jacob Jensen and the Left are in opposition, the Left is also sometimes in government, and there is just a bit of trouble when the opposition or support parties for that matter come with them: give us some money and do it the day after tomorrow. It's just not quite real.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185739	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. The next to be welcomed is the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110185747	Thank you. The resolution we are discussing now came, after all, in the days when the government announced that negotiations on biodiversity and nature were to be postponed for a year. At once, I called for a consultation on how it could be right for it to continue to be postponed. It was then a conciliation which I even cancelled because I was then called for negotiations before. That is where I have to say that I am quite in favour of the proposal. It was about us starting these negotiations, and fortunately we have arrived. What this is all about in all its simplicity again is that we can stand and only talk technique, but I have to say again that nature has to come first. We have to look at the way we have played completely privilegedly to nature, have tormented it on land and decorated our agriculture, as we have done, and tormented it to water, because unfortunately we are destroying our portrait. That is what we need to change. It is, of course, the fundamental thing that goes beyond just calling for negotiations. That is what we need to talk about: how do we change our priorities, our ambitions? I'm glad to be involved in negotiating that now. The rapporteur of the Left has asked on several occasions here today what we are debating on the basis of what the government has put forward. I can therefore welcome the rapporteur of the Left in saying that we started with an empty piece of paper. It was about where do we want to go? As always, I'm happy to help get my ambitions up. I remember having a discussion during the previous government with a Left Minister who said that I was absolutely insatiable when it came to action for the climate. I can say that the same goes for nature. That is where we are in the negotiations now. We say, "Open your ambitions!" We have presented a financial bill play about a green kickstart in the SF, which I think the Left instead of working so hard to make its own, can copy. It's on our website. Go in and copy it, then there's money to get to grips with this, and there's money to get to work on the next motion for a resolution by the Left. So you're welcome to go check it out. That's really good. I think that should be my end here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190019	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190022	I mean, a blank piece of paper and I can play along too. Now Mrs. Zenia Stampe said before that it was a free round, and Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says that you now negotiate on the basis of a blank piece of paper, and you can otherwise build on it. What was the purpose of this proposal, as Rasmus Nordqvist rightly says, was precisely to launch it together with the consultation which Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also refers to 'to get', one might say, pressured the government into the course that one had actually been on, but which one chose to withdraw from and so say: Now we wait a year. So that is what is intended, but seasoned with the ambition or element that we see that you can make a law on nature and biodiversity, which also contains binding objectives inspired by our climate discussions. That is what has been the intention, not that we should now be teasing, and now we should have a whole lot of teasing. It has been, and is, really enough, and I am glad that then I was just hoping that we could see the content as well, but I have now understood from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist states that it is a blank piece of paper, so there is of course It is noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190138	In fact, I think that this is an enormously respectful way to start negotiations, that instead of pushing it in a direction, you look around and at the people you talk to and you say: where are we going to take this? We know that we will act on the natural and biodiversity crisis; how do we get there? It is, in fact, with the respect I think these negotiations have been convened, and it is with the respect they are doing. It was not really to say that this proposal is teasing, because I actually see it as a real political tool to push something forward which we were many who thought it was wrong to postpone for a year. So that is how I took down the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190210	The next brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190215	Thank you. Now biodiversity is being negotiated in the Finance Act, but surely it does not end there. So how much is SF's patience in getting the biodiversity package in place? In May, if all is well then, will there be COP15 in China, and are we in place with a biodiversity package in Denmark at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190241	Yes, I hope so to the extent that we are, because we must, in fact, have already taken some steps now and here, and more steps must be taken, and it would be fantastic if we could actively engage in the international negotiations that are going to be. Now it is good that we have got an EU biodiversity strategy, because it can push internationally, and it is always good if countries like Denmark also have a good biodiversity law and here I look down on the Minister for the Environment to go to Beijing. I myself experienced during the climate-COP25 in Spain, how much attention there was, because we had received a climate law, and how much you can help shape and help other parliamentarians and governments with how they can work on concrete things. So I hope, of course, that we have made a great deal of progress. Now it is part of the negotiations, and it is also part of the Finance Act, and we are so committed to taking major and serious steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190329	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you to the SF rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190345	It's nice that we get the chance again to stand here in the Folketing and discuss nature. Nature takes up a lot, even for the citizens of our country, and here in the Corona crisis, the time spent in nature has actually made a record. People have needed to get away from the cities, away from small apartments and crowded parks and out there where there actually was space. Somewhere like Møns Klint, the police simply had to step up because there was actual tribulation on the stairs. People needed to get out and get the tranquility that nature also gives. It gives us a breathing space and is life-affirming in the midst of the chaos we are in right now in the world. Therefore, I think it is really important to talk about nature and that we in the Folketing also make sure that we remember it and cherish it. On the surface, when you are out there in the autumn with the beautiful yellow and brown leaves, nature can look harmonious, but in reality there is a much bigger drama than we can see with the naked eye. Worldwide, over 100,000 species have either disappeared, threatened or very rare, and in Denmark too we are experiencing a huge decline in the population of birds, bees and all species in general, so something needs to be done. We in the Enhedslisten are very pleased that the understanding paper committed the government and the parliamentary basis to jointly deliver some solutions, among others. that there should be an area of our country reserved for untouched forest in the Enhedslisten, we want it to be 25%. We are very sorry that we are not really doing so yet. Because we need to change our country to give nature more space. Right now we are pumping bacon and grain out of a lot of our land area over 62%. is cultivated for farming and we board a very large part of our marine waters, which is enormously harmful. So something has to happen, and we're in a hurry. That is why I am also glad that we are actually negotiating right now in the majority that has to find the money to deliver some solutions. But I also find it interesting that the Left is now playing its part and writing in this motion for a resolution that the Left wants to see binding targets so I have to understand it. In the Enhedslisten, we are interested in negotiating with anyone who has a policy that we agree with, so I am curious about what the Left really wants with this proposal. Where should the binding targets lie? How much money should go to nature? I think we need to clarify that with what is here. As the proposal now stands, we cannot support it in the Enhedslisten, because we are already engaged in negotiations with the government on the Finance Act, but I hope that we can make a broad biodiversity law with the entire Danish Parliament, and in this way I also see this as an outstretched hand, if you may say so, from the Left to other parties that will be involved in that particular, and I would, of course, like to accept it in the long term, unless we can convince the government that it is something that needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190729	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190733	Thank you for that and thank you for some fine remarks. Now we heard from Mr. Nordqvist, SF, a moment ago that what was, as it were, the basis for the negotiations was not, as it were, a proposal from the government. It was like a paper, and then you could start adding elements to it. I had the impression that the paper of understanding had written that there would be a biodiversity and nature issue in which, like some proposals that have been considered and worked through by officials and other good people, there could be political negotiation on the basis of it. But that is not the case. I hope that the Enhedslisten rapporteur can confirm this. That's one. The second is whether the rapporteur could not say whether it is a little too bad that Christiansborg technique should prevent the possibility that we could make a wider political settlement. Now, like it is being used to say that it is financial law negotiations, and then the rest of us cannot be on the table. Well, we haven't been invited to any financial law negotiations at all yet. I think it is a little later this week, or it will be next week, that we will have the first set-up meetings with the Finance Minister. So isn't it a little too bad that it was supposed to be that which, like, prevented the possibility that we could at least test the width that could be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190850	I am aware that the Left has been invited to debate finance legislation tomorrow morning, and in the Enhedslisten I see it as such that there is nothing to prevent that, if you agree with the funding by the majority that is, and in the objectives, you share it. But I have my doubts as to whether the Left is. For what are the objectives that the Left would like to see in a binding biodiversity law? I would like an answer from the rapporteur to that, before I at least open the door to that negotiating room. I know that it is not only I who have the opportunity to do so, but I also think that the rapporteur must have some understanding of it, especially in view of the fact that we have not been very impressed by the efforts made by the Left Government in the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190938	The next brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110190943	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I am very pleased that the rapporteur mentions that we grow a lot of meat rather than plants. It is the case that if you take a piece of soil, you can get 4 g of protein from it, where on the same piece of soil you could get 100 g of protein from it if you were growing vegetables or vegetarian crops. So if you follow that terminology, it will leave in principle a very large area of land that you could convert to nature. Now I think it would be rather drastic, but what is Enhedslisten's attitude to convert agricultural land to nature, because we can more easily produce much more good food, in other words in the form of vegetable products.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191035	In the Enhedslisten we want to set aside agricultural land for ourselves, where nothing is to be grown, and at the same time, of course, we also want to help agriculture to adapt to a more vegetable, green, plant-based agriculture. Because what the rapporteur says is absolutely right. Today we use, I think it's up to 80%. of our land area just on feed for the animals we have in Danish agriculture. At the same time, we import tons of soya from Latin America, from South America, where rain forest is burned. This is untenable, so something needs to be done about it. In the Enhedslisten we hope that the negotiations on agriculture, but also on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191130	The second brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191135	Thank you. That's what they did at 25 percent. to nature, as Mrs Mai Villadsen mentioned. Isn't it a slightly low level of ambition when we know that the EU, in its strategy proposal, is setting up up up to 30%??
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191151	I think the rapporteur may have misunderstood what we want with the 25%. For the 25%. is similar to what the European Union has proposed. 20% In fact, there is a strict protection of nature, the areas where there is only nature for the sake of nature. That is what we want in the Enhedslisten. So I actually think, modestly speaking, that this is a rather high figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191212	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191223	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. I am once again a substitute for our environmental rapporteur, and allow me to start by smiling a little up here from the platform. I also think that for many years we have been a little slow on this point, on nature and biodiversity and the green transition, and I do not really think that the current government is super fast to put it bluntly. Now the Left is proposing here that the government should set binding biodiversity targets and call for negotiations on a biodiversity package by the end of this year, and it is, of course, good that the Left should come forward with it. There are quite a few Conservatives who have also worked on this in the past. As mentioned in the last debate we had here, of B 18, it is a bottom-up task to ensure our nature, including biodiversity in Denmark, better than we do today. We can only support this, which is why we naturally support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191320	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191332	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. I would like to refer to my general comments on the previous motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution we are now debating is that the government should present a proposal for a nature and biodiversity package which should include binding targets for the development of biodiversity up to 2030 and, in addition, the government should call for negotiations on the package by the end of 2020. New citizens can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191401	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191409	Thank you. It is almost such a sort of coincidence with motions for resolutions B 18 and B 19. Like Mr. René Christensen, I will not completely recycle what was said before. It is important that there is talk across the middle about nature and biodiversity, because it is the case that if you look at the political map in Denmark, nature lies first and foremost where people vote blue, and those who vote red live, where there is no nature, namely inside the cities, and then have strong opinions about nature. Therefore, the best thing is, of course, if those who live in nature and those who have activitic opinions about nature can somehow come together and be in the same room and agree, otherwise the whole question of nature and biodiversity will forever drown in frustration and disagreements and this strange policy that we have got where every time the government changes color, everything will be rolled back. This is not the way to manage nature or biodiversity. If we worked in the same way in the field of education, we could start in the 0th class with circular pedagogy, and when we came in the 4th grade, we could get back to the little table and spellings etc., and then when we came in the big classes and there was a new government, we could just get two more years of circular pedagogy. This is how everything that has to do with the environment and nature is done, and that is of course not the right way to do it. So we must sit down and achieve binding objectives in a broad circle of parties. That is what the proposal is putting forward, and of course we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191603	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191610	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we want to do things in the right order. That is to say, we would like to make first a biodiversity law with targets that we must follow and then the concrete package. However, this should not prevent us from making an emergency effort in which we quickly establish wild forests and wild national parks in parallel. And here I think the Left confuses it a little, because it is a biodiversity package that is being proposed here, with binding targets. And here I would say that if the Left comes to the negotiations and wants to follow the EU's biodiversity target, that is, by 30%. wild nature or so-called wild nature and 10%. strictly protected nature, I would like to personally try to chop a hole in the thick walls of the Ministry of the Environment, through which the Left negotiators can get through. But the Left must also bring a large wallet. I do not know how many times the Left, with an authoritative vote, has asked the alternative for funding for various proposals. Where's the money coming from? we have often heard. It was also on a sign standing on Claus Hjort Frederiksen's table when he was Minister of Finance. Does the Alternative think the money's on the trees? We have also been asked. Does the Alternative think the money's falling from the sky? is also a variant we've heard. Or does the Alternative have a cash machine? Now it is the case that it has been expressed in many ways, but in the alternative we actually think that we can start with the visions and ideas of a radically different society and then try to shape the economy to some extent afterwards, even though we are now always trying to bring the economy with us when we come up with resolutions. But when the Left comes up with a b proposal on four lines, which at least potentially runs into billions, I cannot help asking whether the Left believes that money is something that is cultivated in flower pots. So, if the Left is ready for the EU's biodiversity targets and the willingness to give funding are there, the alternative would like to answer yes to the question that the Left has put to many of the other parties: can we enter into those negotiations? In that case, the alternative will certainly be full of goodwill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191856	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution will be given the floor, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110191909	Thank you. I read here earlier today a news that you can go in and look up on TV2 ØST's website: The Odder is back on Lolland-Falster: So it's not so bad that it's not good for anything. So there are things going on in nature that are also in the positive direction. And, of course, I say that because things are going to happen, and it was also one of the things we discussed in the past, because in nature it is not black or white either, that is, that it is either going beyond the abyss, or, if you may say so, light green. There's probably a variant between the two, and that's probably where the truth lies. I really think that this proposal, and I would also like to begin by thanking both the Minister and the other rapporteurs for their comments, with the variants that will, of course, always be in such a political debate, have been taken down in the spirit that has also been put forward, namely with a sincere desire that there will be an initiative from the current government. It is not because the rest of us cannot then come up with big, chromed plans and visions and dream about how things should be, but it is simply because we would like to have a starting point in which we could then take a political starting point, and of course we also have a series of things in such a plan that we would like to give priority to, and I will come back to them in a moment. However, as I have said, the proposal has been put forward with the wish that there should be a proposal and that we in the Folketing should be able to discuss politically the proposal that the government could formulate, based on what has otherwise been written in its paper of understanding. For this we have also written in our proposal that we would like to see such a proposal, or so. the agreement on which we could agree, if necessary, could contain binding targets in the field of nature and biodiversity, inspired by the Climate Act, which we in the Danish Parliament have also agreed on in general terms. So that's basically what's been the intention. Then I know that someone has been having fun saying that it is only three or four or five lines, but then I will be a little funny the other way and say that it is not the size, but the construction that is crucial here, and by that I mean again, what is precisely the intention is that we will have it negotiated. I understand that you are in the process of doing so, and it is fine that there are some who then sit down around that table and negotiate a longer-term plan. At least I think you should do that. So perhaps a 10-year plan or, for that matter, a longer-term plan, and where you can also say that this is our ambition, and it could be, for example, our ambition. be an objective that the list of red-list species that the European Union is fighting must not be allowed to stay any longer, but, for example, the list of red-list species that the European Union is fighting for. I'd like to get shorter. And then you could start there and say: what do we do in Denmark? What opportunities do we have in Denmark? And then you could think things in their context. Because it is true, as the Minister for the Environment, I think, said in the second context, that there are many balls in the air at the moment or at least on the way. We need to negotiate water plans at a time when there are also climate negotiations that are running, there is a marine strategy plan and, in general, the debate on the sea, which I also think it is essential to include when we talk about biodiversity. There is probably a tendency to forget that there is therefore also biodiversity outside our coasts, and now I cannot remember which of the rapporteurs mentioned it, but it is also a minor matter, but at least someone mentioned that there is also something I think it was Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who mentioned it • a sea that also has biodiversity, which we need to look at. I mentioned, in the discussion of the previous proposal, that it could be said that biodiversity can be the new currency, and what did I mean by that? It is true that I meant that there is an economy which must also be linked, and that is where I fully agree with those who say it; I think that one would know the Left me very badly if there was not also the economy available. But I agree with that, as Mr. René Christensen also mentioned that we should also start in the right order and say: what kind of framework are we dealing with? And then we can say: what are the options we have for using this framework as effectively as possible, with the aim, for example, that the list of red-list species should not be longer and that over a 10-year period we should set in motion the various measures that will ensure that objective? At least we've been thinking that it could be some of those things. It is perhaps some old classics that are drawn from the stable here, but the whole discussion about untouched forest, which I also know the government has done something about and also has ambitions to do more about, was also one of the things that we worked with when we had government responsibility, and that is at least one of the things that I hear from experts and other wise people has a good effect. So, of course, how much should you do? Well, it depends on something else. Untouched forest is not just untouched forest, as I understand it. It depends incredibly on whether there are coherent areas and what, moreover, are some areas we are talking about and so on. etc. So I think it would be wrong to start a discussion and start by putting on a figure or a percentage. I think it would be better to say: where is the greatest impact we can have, and what, by the way, is it for an economy that we can then give priority to? It could also be general afforestation, because are the afforestation programmes that are now good enough? We talk a lot about the removal of low-level soils, etc. as part of a climate solution, and you could think about that with this discussion about biodiversity, so you can exchange some of the low bottom soil both by reducing CO2 We are very happy with the nature parks • and I say on purpose nature parks and national parks that are already in progress. A little more sceptical about the nature park concept, and this has little to do with the fact that in our view there is too much coercion, too much fence and too little access, for example. Outdoor life and too little involvement of pilots and such things, but it doesn't necessarily have to separate us; it's just to say that it's not right there that we see the greatest strength. There we think it might be preferable to look at whether the national parks and natural parks we know could offer some additional opportunities and some better tools to make this coherent effort, which we see there is already much work to be done on. We are also very much in favour of looking beyond the coastline, as I mentioned just now. There has also been a discussion about • we have also jointly sent a letter which has also been welcomed by the Minister • e.g. the establishment of a maritime national park in the Øresund region. We have asked what this can bring about and whether it is a concept that can be rolled out elsewhere, just as it is to get bored out, not in the literal sense, but at least in the content, what kind of legal framework one can put down on such a dredging we have already said before that one should not do in these areas. It could also be something about Natura 2000 sites. Part of the marine strategy plan is, of course, that you look at how to identify it, what criteria it is, whether there are some more areas that you could rightly identify and then put out as protection with the requirements that must of course follow it, and that you look at how to make a coherent plan also for the sea area, but with the thinking that we do so in such a way that we get the best possible impact from the actions we do. Because I think I think it was Mrs Susanne Zimmer who said earlier that you can have a dream and a vision, and that is very commendable, but there is just, as the Minister has rightly said, a reality around corona and a lot of other things that we also have to deal with. So there aren't any unbelievable quantities, sir. Torsten Gejl; there isn't. The money doesn't grow on the trees. Maybe you could argue that they did in this particular case, but they don't. That is why it is all about the means that we can now find. We have also come up with a financial bill which contains funds for this purpose. We just don't want to tie ourselves up on the basis of saying that we need 10 million. kr. There, 20 million. kr. and 30 million ECU. kr. There, but we would like to see things in the context in which they should now be, namely: where is the greatest effect with the aim of ensuring that, for example, the list of red list species will no longer be over the coming years. It could be over 10 years, it could also be another year goal; it should not separate us either. As far as funding is concerned, we can always point to the poor room for manoeuvre, which has received many requests on all kinds of fronts. One could also point out the possibility of looking at • and I know that there are also green organisations that say that there is an opportunity there is that the myriad of different laws and regulations, which certainly each has had a purpose but which, when you put it all together in a large pile, can in fact many times be counterproductive, that is, where things simply have an opposite effect. To clean up some of this has been successful in the past in the area of food, and this could also be considered in the field of the environment and nature, so that more targeted and effective regulation can be achieved. It was just to give an example of something that could also help to release funds. So that is all said on the basis of the best intention and, as I have said, that is what the proposal here proposes, namely that we should have a proposal • I can understand that it is a piece of blank paper, but it can in fact be good, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says "and then you start by saying, 'The parties are playing in, and what is it that we can agree on, hopefully with a broad agreement? At least that is what the proposal is proposing here. Thank you, however, for the comments made by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110192915	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110192922	Thanks for the speech. I am curious about the objectives indicated in the motion for a resolution by the Left. Will the Left be ready to follow the EU's target of 30% nature and 10% strictly protected nature on land?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110192924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110192947	At any rate, we are in favour of meeting the international obligations that we have. I would like to say that, and I think that is essential. There is also a discussion on how much Denmark should contribute in this context. Are we going to contribute anything at all, and can we contribute anything at all? I also think it is essential to say on this issue that there is also a difference between the geography of the countries, our background and our ability to meet the objectives mentioned here. However, I would very much like to take a look at the fact that we must, of course, meet the international requirements to which we are committed. How far it goes in that direction, as Mr. Torsten Gejl refers to, I'd rather not get too attached to right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193026	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193032	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I was just wondering, when I heard the speech, that there are also a great many unknowns, I understand on the Left, in relation to where exactly you want to go, what goals you want to set yourself and what you want to do, and then I just want to ask whether this is not something we should address and be a little active on in the committee here in the Folketing instead of sitting with a motion for a resolution that simply points to the government setting in motion and that the government should come up with proposals. Is it really not something that we should take and elaborate a little more together in committee and look into what the researchers are saying in relation to precise percentages and areas, etc., so that we take it on ourselves as parliamentarians? We can also do a very large part of the work together in the committee we have. So it is actually a call for us to take a step further in the committee's examination of this resolution, so that instead of just taking the first line that we point to the government, we also remember to point to ourselves and, together in committee, to move forward with this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193131	I think that sounds like a great idea. I think so. Because I am, in fact, open to how we can proceed along the path we are trying, and I also hear all parties, of course, with different voices, wishing to be laid out, and I also know that the Danish Parliament has people and that you can draw on the administration in different ways and so on. However, I think, if we are to be honest, that after all it is in the office with the weight that lies there, that there is of course some expertise that we might as well draw on, and that is also what I assume the Minister does when she negotiates with the support parties, in other words leaning on what it is for some tools that work and what works less well. But I will be very open to what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist here says whether we can use the committee more actively in this direction. I think we should look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193221	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193222	Yes, and of course there are good officials, who are also good at filling in with knowledge and facts. However, I just think that it might be quite wise to have the EU biodiversity strategy, that we have the UN track, which is also running now, that we, together with the committee, are going a little more actively into this and are not waiting. So it has to be my end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193244	I think we should have done that, and here we are, sir. René Christensen, who is the chairman of the committee, probably in a few minutes or he will be sitting in the back listening, just as Mrs Zenia Stampe did before and I think it is actually a very constructive proposal. That is not to say that we should then put it all in committee. We can, of course, do that, but I am still thinking about the famous blank paper, which is now, hopefully, being filled with some good proposals and that it is also there that we can get it qualified. That is actually what I am asking for with this, for example, if we put out more untouched forest: how much is it supposed to be? Where's it gonna be? How can we make it more coherent? Because it can be done in many ways, for example. As a few small lumps, it gives some effect in relation to the economy which, of course, also has to keep up with etc. etc.? All other things being equal, it must be our excellent official apparatus that can qualify it, so that we can take a political position in this Chamber or in the negotiations on whether we can agree with an agreement or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193341	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193345	Thank you, and thank you for your speech to Mr. Simpson. Jacob Jensen. I am pleased that the rapporteur focuses on our marine environment, because that is something that gets a little too little attention. Now it is the case that we actually have Natura 2000 areas, i.e. it is 18%. of our marine environment, which should be protected, but it is only 2% that is, and one of the biggest problems is bottom trawling inside Natura 2000 sites. And that's where I'd like to hear sir. Jacob Jensen: What is his position regarding at least banning the bottom trawl in there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193425	I will be very open to look at that, i.e. whether there can be areas where you need to expand those conditions. I think it's about planning it, too. Well, we have a land-based planning law that, like in some way, sets the framework for building, where you can't build, and how you can do things in order to get it planned properly. And something similar I imagined, in relation to making a kind of planning law on water, where you just take in that purpose, so that all those who use it professionally, recreationally and in every way know what it is you can do and what you can't do, by the way, what we can do on the part of the state, in relation to where you have to set up wind turbines, for example. coast close; it can bother someone, and it can also be a problem for seabirds and others who live and move in the area. I mean, so you have a whole plan. That is also what I actually sense in the marine strategy plan. I just wanted us to get a little more into it politically. But to answer specifically: yes, we must have looked at that, i.e. whether something can be done in that direction too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193522	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193524	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something about the CAP scheme. Will the Left be in favour of using some of the means now available from the first pillar and transferring them to the second pillar so that nature can really be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193546	Yes, that is to say, there has been an opportunity for countries to transfer funds beyond what we saw already migrating from pillar 1 to pillar 2. And that again depends on the size and on what the purpose of moving them over is, so what is it then used for afterwards? And of course we will be open to that, but I would also like to say that we are not open to it if, at the same time, this means that the aid, which is of course the production that food production is being exported, is moving out. After all, climate and the environment do not benefit from this, i.e. they move somewhere else, where the climate impression and the environmental image are simply greater than it is in Denmark. But I would like to help look at what these are for some options that are, including: What can the funds in column 2 be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193630	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193633	Thank you. And thank you for one, I think, actually very accommodating speech. The rapporteur started by saying that it is not the size that matters, and that sounds like the explanation why this is probably the shortest proposal for a parliamentary resolution in Danish history. Then I think that we cannot really get anything concrete about what the Left really wants. Well, this is all about what the government is supposed to do, but what is it that the Left wants? I come to think of a chairman who, at one point, said a few decades ago: there is not a frog, not a bird, not a fish that has suffered worse as a result of the government's environmental policy. We're going the other way. It's not about what's gotten worse. So if the rapporteur could fill a little here on the rest of the blank page of the proposal with what it really is that the Left wants to save is it a frog, a bird or a fish?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193734	Well, now I feel like I always weigh my words on a gold weight, so if speech is silver, isn't the silence gold? Isn't that what they say? No, we shall stop doing so now, because it is serious enough and, after all, there is something on the paper of the proposal. That is so much more than what is in the proposal that the government has made, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, who said that the starting point for the government was a blank piece of paper. Having said that, I have tried to mention some of the things that we would very much like to contribute to putting into such a plan, in addition to the fact that we would like to bind ourselves and the Danish Parliament • those who would like to be involved in setting binding targets, including looking at precisely the tools like the national parks and natural parks we have, so that it becomes more coherent; that we look at red-listed species and that we should like to have as a goal that the red-list does not get bigger; that we look at the maritime, i.e., Øresund, as we have mentioned, and that we are looking at a plan to develop and identify Natura 2000 sites, etc. So there are plenty of elements that can be taken along and qualified; that is what I had that discussion with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist about before. And that is what we are asking for, and we also believe that the official apparatus can be involved when we say that we want to do something. We have a sum of money on a financial law or by an agreement at all that we can agree to spend. So where do we get the most for the money? It's like what's our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193850	Mrs Mette Gjerskov for another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193853	Thank you, but now it's just not the Finance Act that we're negotiating here. What we are debating is the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left and there is no mention of it. That's okay, for example. Going for a red list • How much can it cost? A million or a billion? Well, it's all in the blue. Can the Left not give us something a little more concrete about how much money the Left is actually prepared to spend on the budget law in the green area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193924	Yeah, I can do that. I don't know if I'm gonna get in trouble with my financial rapporteur, because it's probably something that's gonna have to be secret for later, but now I'm gonna take the chance. In any case, in this proposal we have said specifically in relation to nature and biodiversity that we would like to allocate 100 million by next year. kr. So you can say, "Well, what's it gonna do for a year?" It is clear that it will also commit us if we enter into an agreement that extends ten years into the future, for example, because then we will also have to find funding in the financial years envisaged. But now we're only doing financial law for one year at a time. So that was a concrete answer to what Mrs Gjerskov wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110193955	Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194000	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech and for the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur and to the Left. The rapporteur said quite rightly, I think, that it is not the size, but the resolution in relation to a resolution that is essential, that is, what the content is. But in this case, I also think that size is quite important, because what area in Denmark should be committed to nature? I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this. That is exactly what I think we should discuss when discussing binding targets for nature: what area of Denmark should be committed wholeheartedly to nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194039	Well, I just think I see a little bit more nuanced on it. It's not at all to be polemical because what does that mean? There are many different degrees of what is untouched forest.What does that mean anyway? Does that mean there can't be any people in there at all? I don't think it does, as far as I understood. There may be some paths and some different things. There may also be a variant. Now, for example, we have talked about the marine environment, where you can be, it can be in relation to recreational purposes, it can be all sorts of other things that still make you take better care of nature than if you came with the bottom trawl and then made a greater intervention in nature. So there's a series of intervariants between fenced in an area and then forgot it for 100 years to say that we're just kicking loose and doing everything we have to do to destroy nature. So that's what I'm really asking for: If we have as our goal to say, for example, that it's like the redlist species we're focusing on, what's it gonna take, and what can we do? Where, for example, will we have the most impact on • 100 million in our case next year, but also what it takes in the financial years and beyond, and what else is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194145	Mrs Mai Villadsen for another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194147	Thank you. It is true that there are several levels of protection, but I nevertheless think that when you propose that there should be binding targets, you ought to have an answer as to what objectives it should be. But let me ask you something else. After all, the Left put forward a number of policies during its last term of government, among others. that you were about to build the coasts more... it's not good for nature. Will the Left still do that? An agricultural package was made which was not very good for the aquatic environment. Do you want to roll back some of it? And when the rapporteur of the Left is now saying that the Left is concerned about the national parks of nature, do we want to roll them back if we regain power?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194226	To answer the last thing first: No, we do not; we do not. We also live life forwards and understand it backwards, so of course we have no ambition for that. We ourselves have also had ideas about Fussingø and other ideas about this, so it is not because we are saying that this is not possible at all. But the point is quite right, and that is also what I am trying to say and have said all afternoon, namely that instead of one year jumping one way and the next period of government going the other way, I would much rather find each other in a national compromise, one might almost call it. Then we could look at: what is it that we can agree on, what can be the direction, like over a longer period, 10 years, for example, perhaps more? Then we could get that width on it, so we don't have to see this one way first and then the other way. That is, in fact, what is happening, among other things. is the intention behind the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194312	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the Left. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194328	The debate is open. The Minister for the Environment is jumping, so welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194348	That's what I'm doing, so thank you for that. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the proposaler's view that the generational pollution is a very large and costly task, which also requires state intervention. The generational pollution has also been discussed with the committee, and what I have emphasized is that the generational pollution is from a time when environmental legislation was more relaxed than it is today, and when the consequences were not so much thought about if we simply poured waste and pollutants into nature. There was no focus on how much damage it could do to our groundwater, to human health, to surface water, to nature, when waste was buried in the soil or poured into water bodies or the marine environment. So the waste problem was solved with one out of sight, out of mind approach. Fortunately, we have become wiser, but that does not change the fact that we are now faced with the sins of the past, and the generational pollution is a clear example that we cannot just close our eyes and blindly dispose of waste and chemicals in nature. The greatest and most demanding of the sins of the past are the generational pollution, and we also owe it to future generations to do something about them. So we have to be ambitious in this area, even when it's difficult and we don't know all the solutions yet. At the same time, we are also at a time when not only Denmark but also the rest of the world are affected by a global pandemic and where Denmark is also economically seriously affected. When I took up office as Minister, I contacted the regions and asked them to make a global priority of action against generational pollution. I thought this was important in order to move forward with the task of professional decision-making in hand as well. The regions have done a good job, they have been working for a long time, but have also shown here with the plan that the bill for the sins of the past is great. Danish Regions estimate that it will cost a total of 2.7 billion. kr. to clean up after 10 generational pollutions and that it will take over 10 years. It is therefore a long-term and costly task that lies ahead of us, and it requires a thorough preparatory work and advanced soil cleaning technology, which we have fortunately come a long way with with public support too to develop. The financing requirements for cleaning up various generational pollutions vary, and also the level of knowledge varies from pollution to pollution. Danish Regions have divided their efforts against the 10 generation pollutions into 3 overlapping phases. The division into phases is for them to start with the pollutants already reported today ready for purification, while those for which knowledge is still lacking before they can be cleaned up are dealt with eventually. Today's resolution, tabled by the Left, concerns a desire to allocate part of the funding to the first of the three stages. The phase strikes over a seven-year period and the regions estimate that it will cost over 600 million. kr. to deal with generational pollution in the first phase. So that is a large amount, but the government, as we have also said in the understanding paper, will deal with the generational pollution, with the parties that are there, and then it will also go along with the proposal for adoption that we adopted together in this Chamber this summer. That remains our ambition. But we, as a government, also have a responsibility to bring us through the crisis wisely. 250 million Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. A little further to the discussion that we had on the two previous motions for resolutions, it can be said that the resolution tackles the slightly more easy part, and the difficult part then remains, namely the priority of state finances. For former Left-wing governments, too, it has been the case that political proposals must of course be financed and that it is also common practice for resolutions to be tabled to indicate the funding that it includes. Having said that and with the background blanket that the infection rate is too high in Denmark and that we are at a time of global pandemics, we are naturally concerned to listen to the wishes that have been expressed in this area. We have put forward a financial bill which reflects tough priorities in this time, but we have also listened to the wishes that exist to give priority to this area, and of course we are also happy to discuss this in the financial legislation negotiations, which I have mentioned in both the consultation that has been on the generational pollution, but also in the recent consultation that the committee held. We would also very much like to hear the proposals for funding from the Left. So, in conclusion, the government, as we have also said, will deal with the generational pollution, as it stands in both the understanding paper and in the proposal for adoption that we have adopted, and we are fully committed to this, but the resolution here, despite its good intentions, is not a proposal that contributes to the financing of the large and complex task, and therefore the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194925	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110194931	Thank you for your speech and indeed also for your receipt of it. I know that when you're in government, you're per. It is against when a motion for a resolution is tabled, unless one has the feeling that there is a majority outside the government. I don't know if the government has a feeling about that here. I just think it may be a little too bad that it should be based on the argument that there is no funding, because of course there is funding. There are opportunities to prioritize this. I don't mean to be polemical, but it's just a matter of prioritising this. You just made a pension agreement, and if you dropped it by less than a month, less than a month, you'd have money to fund this for it's 250 million. kr. for a year, we are talking about • just to get started with the plan that Danske Regioner has put in place, and thus also the priority plan which is, as such, clear. So my question has to be this: can't this be part of the corona alert? Because it is true, as the Minister says, that there is a corona crisis. We have people who get fired and unemployed, etc., but there are also companies that we have heard in a hearing in our committee that this could actually mean that we could hire some people who otherwise have nothing to do. So it could be an opportunity to say: this is part of our corona alert, and we're setting it off.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195045	First of all, I would like to say to this that it should be particularly polemic to say that it is also necessary to finance the proposals put forward in the Chamber that I do not share that experience. I also believe that if you go back to just the last Left Government, you can find several examples of this. I myself remember several B proposals where we have been standing in this Chamber and where the Left has said that this would not be done because the funding was missing. That is quite real, because the bill has to be paid, and that is the responsibility of a government as well. Having said that, however, we also say very clearly that we have listened to the very strong wish that is, and that is what I had with me at the beginning of my speech. We are fully committed to the proposal for adoption that has been made. That is why the call is also being made for this to be discussed in the financial law negotiations, which are, I believe, under way right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195134	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195137	In any case, I am happy with this proposal, and it has also been the intention of this proposal. It should not be a secret either. And I respect the fact that they then try to do so through the financial law negotiations. I am simply interested in something happening, and I hope that this will be done in the financial law negotiations, whether we are in them or not. I understand we'll be called tomorrow. It's a good thing I can get that kind of information. That's what's been the intention of this. It is just to say again that this is, of course, about prioritising it and there is ample opportunity to prioritise it. There is, moreover, a large war fund which makes it possible to say that this is something that we would like to set in motion precisely in order to secure jobs during a corona crisis. There is just my question again: could it not be an opportunity to say that this has been heard from companies actually creating jobs, while at the same time solving something we want to solve, so we are setting it in motion so that we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195230	Well, all credit to intention, but I would also like to say that if there is such ample opportunity to prioritise, then that is not a new problem. It is not something that has arisen after we have entered the government. So if we had the stated wish expressed here by the rapporteur of the Left, we have just had four years in which we could have made the plan which would ensure that there was a full clean-up of all generational pollutions. I just have to say that that plan has not been there. So I totally accept the good intentions, but I just think that before you get too far, then at least there is also the responsibility of the Left itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195306	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195309	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment so clearly that the government is, of course, behind the joint proposal for adoption that we have adopted in here. I would like to say to the government, in all kind words, that I think you have become more clear about the fact that you will be acting on the generational pollutions in the last year. This is fundamentally positive because the historical problem of generational pollution is the poison, but in particular the political sluggishness with regard to their elimination. So I just want to sign off on the fact that the Minister for the Environment says so clearly that we need to clean up and that the government will also take responsibility for that. However, I think that the rapporteur from the Left has a very central question to which the Minister for the Environment did not quite answer, namely whether, now that we are in a coronatide and there are, unfortunately, Danes who are losing their jobs, you can see that this can actually also help create some jobs in many places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195409	First of all, thank you for the positive expression from the SF. Nor do I think it is a secret to anyone that the SF is one of the parties which has raised this issue to a large extent and which has also had the wish from the very beginning when a new majority came in Denmark and has said that this was one of the important points. So I would also very much like to be clear as to where the government stands and, of course, we stand by the understanding paper that we, among others, have. has made with SF. But I also believe that everyone who has dealt with this is well aware that this is not an easy task. This will require a very, very large task to be undertaken. That is also why we say that the regions have been working for a long time, but that there is also a need for state co-responsibility here. So to the part about employment ■ and I regret that I ran out of time; that is what can happen when you talk warmly: what we are focusing on with the Finance Act, with the recovery funds that lie, is our job; it is to get the economy in Denmark going. And that is where we are very happy to listen to all the proposals that come from the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195516	Mrs Signe Munk for her second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195519	After all, it is both SF and a large number of parties, and in particular large companies, which emphasise that there is therefore employment in starting the clean-ups. In addition, I would just like to confirm once again that the Minister for the Environment, when she says that the government supports the intentions of the resolution, also says that she expects us to follow the plan laid out for Danske Regions, that is to say that the first phase will have to be found money for now, and then we will have to find money for the second and third stages of the generational pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195554	Well, we haven't decided how to proceed. That is one of the things we must also discuss in the financial law negotiations. But the reason why I am just highlighting those stages is that what the proposal for adoption says is that it must be based on the regional priorities, because it is they who have the soil pollution task in Denmark. And I have nothing but confidence that they can do that job. They are our main experts in this area, and they have then set out a model, and we must then discuss it politically. But that is a partial amount of what the Left is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195625	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195629	Thank you. In these days, the government and the Enhedslisten are sitting among others. in financial law negotiations. I myself have the pleasure of sitting at the table, and in this respect it is a priority for us to do something about the generational pollution, of course. We have an opportunity to use the war fund that several parties have now referred to the Left and the SF, and to get this work going and at the same time create jobs for the many people who are currently losing the job as a result of the corona crisis. That's smart, and I really hope we're gonna do that together. But there are also many other pollutions in Denmark, namely 37,000. That's such a big number that it's barely comprehendable. And some of them are also huge. I have visited one of them myself, the Flash Frost in Nyborg, where you can actually smell the pollution. They are wondering right now whether they will end up being categorized as generational pollution. But if they do not, should we not undertake to promise to give some money to clean up many of the other reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195734	Compared to the 37,000 other soil pollutions we have in Denmark, I think it is quite fair to have a lot of focus on them too, and that is one of the things we have discussed with each other. For the acute threat from there to our drinking water, to human health and to our environment can be very real, and that is why it is precisely the three considerations that Danske Regioner takes as a starting point when looking at the soil pollution that they not only uncover, but also help to prevent or clean up. After all, it is Danske Regionser who has the competence to handle the soil pollution task, and they get a small half billion for it per year. And it is precisely the intention that, in relation to the actual pollution, it is the regions which, in the case of the Lynfrost site, for which there have been a number of questions, also dealt with what the need is actually in relation to the actual pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195835	The next brief remark is from René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195840	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. It may be that it is a little on the edge of the resolution, but it is about what the Minister said in his speech that we dug things down in the old days, but that we have now, fortunately, become wiser. In fact, we are still digging something that looks like 400,000 tonnes of garbage into the ground as a deposit per year. If you just take something like mill wings, we've already dug 1,500 tonnes into the ground out of sight, out of mind. That is why we have a special obligation, especially with regard to past sins, but we also have quite a commitment to the future. I just thought I'd say it's a question of whether we've gotten so much smarter. We just think that what we are doing now is right, but 400,000 tonnes of garbage are being dug into the ground every year. After all, it's still gone a lot that, when it's out of sight, is out of mind, and we don't know what it looks like in 50 years with the garbage we're digging down now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110195939	I would say that, fortunately, we can see that we have become wiser, and we can see that with the legislation that is in place now. Because if you imagine a Danish company today, which was the cause of one of the generational pollutions we see now, it would not be a question of us here in the Folketing finding the money to clean up the pollution; then it would be the company in question who would have done the job. So that's how we've gotten smarter. However, having said that, there are still a lot of waste problems in Denmark which also need to be dealt with. I have been incredibly pleased that we in the Danish Parliament adopted a climate agreement on precisely the waste area, where we go even further in terms of ensuring recycling and recycling. And with regard to what the rapporteur points out about the issue of renewable energy, in other words wind turbines, it is extremely important, and we also need to improve on this and more projects have been launched. I also know that the rapporteur has a question on the way to diving into it. I would very much like to participate in this with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200042	Sir. René Christensen for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200043	Thank you for your answer and thank you for your reply. What I just want to say in the end is that when there is a proposal like this, the Minister is taking it quite nicely, but there is still a discussion on financing and other matters, but does the Minister not think that this is so important now that we should:
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200103-2	The wording that we also agreed in broad terms in the Folketing this summer was that the government should help to find necessary funding as soon as possible, and we stand by that. But that is also why I was talking about the whole Corona crisis, which I can also hear several of the rapporteurs in the Chamber talking about, because that is a condition that has changed the political situation. Having said that, however, it does not change the fact that we are also listening to the wishes of the people who are also discussing it here in the context of the financial law negotiations, and it is certainly my expectation that it will be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200135	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. The rapporteur starts with the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200159	Thank you for the floor. The generational pollution is a clear picture of one of the sins of the past. The generational pollutions were a relic, an environmental disaster from a time when people might not know better... is a subject that has occupied me for many years as a citizen and as a politician. That is why I am very pleased that, with this motion for a resolution, the Left is addressing this issue. I live near three of the ten generation pollutants: Himmark Strand, Kærgård Klitplantage and not least Grindsted pollution. In Grindsted, I am very often. Here I have walked nearby, I have seen the warning signs, and I have seen the measures to ensure that the pollution does not spread. I am aware of the unrest caused by the generational pollution at local level, where the people are also waiting for something concrete to happen soon in relation to clean-up. Today we are discussing the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left to instruct the government to find funding for the first phase of cleaning up the generational pollution by the end of 2020. In addition, the proposal requires the government to put forward a concrete plan so that the clean-up can be managed within the next 10 years. The first phase will be in addition to the 81 million. kr. already earmarked for soil pollution cost 659 million. kr. The first 250 million. kr. The Liberal Group is proposing that the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group should be set aside as early as next year's Finance Act. The motion for a resolution is sympathetic. I am and I can also hear that the Minister for the Environment is concerned about the generational pollution, which is why the Minister asked Danske Regions to draw up a global priority over the generational pollution. This report from the Danish Regions was available back in March, and the report showed that the price of cleaning up all ten generation pollutants is around 2.7 billion. kr. It's a very large amount of money. Before the summer holidays, the Folketing instructed the government to find funding for the clean-up as soon as possible, and that is still the ambition. We will have managed the generational pollution, as is also shown by the government's understanding paper, which was prepared at the time of accession after the elections on 5 June 2019. So there's something special at stake. We must take action and we must have cleaned up after the biggest pollution cases in Denmark, so that our children and grandchildren will not have an even bigger bill than the one before us today. We cannot defend the fact that these pollutions are passed on to future generations, as they have passed on to us. However, we also need to recognise that the Corona crisis, and in particular the recent developments, means that we must prioritise our resources. The government's draft budget is also a clear expression of this. That is why I am also surprised that the Left believes that it is responsible to want to print large and expensive bills without concrete funding at a time when the economic situation is not only in Denmark but in the world is uncertain. With a motion for a resolution to find 659 million. kr., and 250 million. kr. next year, I do not think it is too much to ask the Left to come up with ideas on how that money is to be found. Do you want to save on health care, on kindergartens, on aid packages, or will the Left perhaps introduce a new priority contribution which, in turn, will mean huge savings in schools and education, and ride rural areas in particular as a mare? Will the Left once again propose the closure of the regions and the further centralisation of popular government and local democracy? Or is it perhaps something quite sixth that the Left has in mind when it comes to financing the resolution? For it is financed it must. We have learned from the mistakes of the past. We do not close our eyes to hazardous waste and chemicals in our nature, but it is important for me to stress that there are no rapid solutions to the remediation of generational pollution. The first steps have been taken when the Minister asked the regions for a plan and, although the work is in progress, work is long-term and will require a lot of resources; resources that do not exist with a fingertips, but by setting honest priorities that help us deal with the worst pollutions first. Because it's also important not to put a towel in people's eyes. Everything is not solved with a fingertips, and we cannot expect all ten generation pollutions in Denmark to be cleaned up within a few years. This will depend, not least, on important political negotiations on economics and finance, and the parties of the Folketing must show genuine will and responsibility when it comes to ending the major soil pollutions in Denmark inheriting future generations. Unfortunately, this motion for a resolution by the Left does not meet the demands of sincere will and responsibility, and that is why the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200657	You can get a little tired sometimes, but now I'm gonna try not to get negative, because I actually hope this can lead to something that can actually happen. We have just as Mr. Troels Ravn says, made a proposal for adoption here in the Folketing, where all the parties require the government to find funding as soon as possible, and then what you are standing here adorning yourself with fine words and saying that you want to give priority to that. But then we look down into the draft budget which the government has proposed, and no penny has been set aside for this purpose. We can stand and accuse each other of a lot of things and say, "Well, I guess you'll fire a lot of nurses, too. And it could be schools or kindergarten, or whatever. I don't know if I left anything on that list, sir. Troels Ravn read out. Honestly, I think it's too thin. Of course, if you want to, you can give this priority, and that will also happen in the financial bill we are going to bring in. Of course, you can give priority to spending 250 million. kr., if you like. We will, and that is why we are putting this forward and hope that there will then be a majority here in the Danish Parliament who, either directly through the adoption of this proposal or indirectly through some financial law negotiations, can force the government not to set $0. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the situation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200815-2	Thank you for the question. The rapporteur says that this must be done. I am absolutely convinced that we have the same ambition and the same hope that it will become something that we will start to clean up after the generational pollution. I have never before seen a government write in its understanding paper that you want to take action, that you want to take responsibility and that you want to deal with these generational pollutions. I've never seen that before. Nor have I heard before that a Parliament, the parties of the Folketing, decides on a proposal for adoption, which also states that there must be funding. Then I also hope that the rapporteur of the Left knows that when a motion for a resolution is tabled, it is good practice to give funding. I have not, in fact, experienced during all my years in politics, either in city council policy or here in the Danish Parliament, making proposals without any provision for funding. I hope that we can agree on that too. And this, of course, is done through responsible negotiations on, for example, a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200929	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110200930	But we can negotiate on funding, because there are opportunities. The government itself has launched a war fund, and I also asked the Minister for the Environment how she looked at it, and I can then ask the Socialist rapporteur about that. This could help create jobs. We have heard this in a hearing we had in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food, where the companies working with this said, "Try to hear if you invest in this, it will not only solve the problem, it can also help create jobs. I understand that the war fund must help secure jobs in Denmark during a corona crisis, so why not say to the right of the governing party: we take that, we fund it, among other things. Through the war box? There is a billion dollars in it, and in this proposal we are talking about 250 million. kr. It can be done if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201019-2	It is precisely for the government that employment is a top priority, and this is also reflected in the draft budget for 2021 it has put forward. Due to the covid-19 health crisis, it is crucial for the government to hold hands under our businesses and under our jobs. That is precisely the top priority. It is in the same way with the subject we are debating here tonight. We would like to discuss this here in the context of a Finance Act. We would like to discuss this issue with parties that come in a responsible way and put forward a plan and also a plan for funding. This is completely lacking from the Left in the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201101	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201111	Thank you for that, President. Generational pollution: yes, the word says it itself: it has happened for generations that you have polluted. But it is also through generations that nothing has happened. The Michael Bundesen from Shu-bi-dua once sang in the early 1980s... "Costa Kalundborg" I wasn't that old, but I remember it clearly: "There's been a pollution." We were singing along, and it was an ear hanger, but it was also quite right what was singing. It's almost 40 years since that song was made about Harboøre Tange. If you wanted to be all alone, you just had to go out there because there would be no one because there was so much pollution. So what kind of pollution is this at Høfte 42? There are 15 to 15 tonnes of pesticides and there are 6 tonnes of mercury. We know that's where we're just not gonna do anything about it. We try to contain it and spend money to keep it in place, so that we know where the pollution is. So, as the Minister said in his speech, it is true that the regions have made an overall view of the ten largest, as we know it is also the most dangerous for our environment and our surroundings and it will cost 2.7 billion. kr. To clean up after the sins of the past. And then it is also true that, in relation to most of the sins of the past, companies have actually done what they were told to do. Unfortunately, agriculture polluted much longer when farmers were told that they had to dig their used plastic cans into the ground, and then they had treated the waste as they had. So it is a legacy that we have taken over from our predecessors, and we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should do something about it. We are actually going to say this tomorrow at the Finance Minister's office, because I am so fortunate that I am both chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Food, but I am also the financial rapporteur and we do not really believe that this is ambitious enough. We will go to the Minister for Finance tomorrow and then we will say that we will have to borrow a loan of 2.7 billion. kr., and then we have to get started. That's 270 million. kr. annual over a 10-year period. And I just want to say, is it irresponsible to borrow to clean up this place? It is absolutely not. If you listen to the wise men, they say that borrowing at the moment with the interest rate is certainly not irresponsible; it is not structural, it does not affect. We've been out borrowing somewhere between 250 and 350 billion. kr. to get through the corona crisis. Here we are talking about pollution, which we have known for the last 50 years; we have still not cleaned up and it costs 2.7 billion. kr. We will go to the financial law negotiations tomorrow and then we will hope that the government says: of course it is not irresponsible to borrow 2.7 billion. kr. over a 10-year period. This is precisely where we can create jobs, create know-how, and, unfortunately, we can do these clean-up work on a large scale, and of course we can also capitalise on that know-how. These pollutions are not a Danish phenomenon; this is how the whole Western world has been working from after World War II and some places until the beginning of the 1980s we fortunately stopped a little sooner. So we do not think we can go on. I have been sitting in the Folketing since 2007, and there we have been talking about generational pollution, and nothing has happened. These are changing governments, so we should not point the finger at anyone, and we ourselves have been the support party. But it has to be said that we are in a situation now that it is not the funding that is the challenge when we talk about this. It is the will to do something about it. We believe that the time has come to do so now, and we will also try to make the government think so tomorrow in the Ministry of Finance, because that is how it should be decided. We now have the basis; the Minister for the Environment has initiated the idea that the regions have come up with the basis for this, and now it is the Minister for Finance and the government that has to deliver in relation to the fact that we also find the funding. I and the Danish People's Party really hope that we can do so in broad agreement, across the parties, so that we can clean up and make sure that part of our nature comes back. For what do we do on the day when the dams do not last anymore and when the 15 tonnes of pesticides and the 6 tonnes of mercury start to leak into the wild around Høfte 42? So thank you for the proposal from the Left, but we hope that we will be able to take the task over with the Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201556	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201614	In fact, this motion for a resolution reminds us a little of the resolution we had before, where the intention is good, but in the end it is a question of money. In the latter, there was no mention of money; in this it says that the government must find the money. That means the government and the parliamentary basis, I assume you cannot rule without a majority. And this is a huge And if we are to achieve our climate objectives, we are just slowly beginning to sense the size of the tasks that lie right ahead of us and are all quite urgent. And we are also very concerned about resolving them, but we are not going to achieve it through such a resolution here, because it is a really big and in many ways, too, I think, incalculable task to have to achieve all these things in such a short space of time. And that will then be our headache, because it is we who sit and are the parliamentary basis of the government. So it will be our headache to make the priorities that make it possible. I do not know if we are going to achieve an allocation of 2.7 billion. kr., but I have an expectation that we will take some decisive steps in relation to this financial law, just like in terms of biodiversity. I can doubt whether we are going to get there quite well, but I hope that we will get there a little bit and thus say that we will vote against this resolution, but, in return, we will promise those who should listen that we will also do our part to ensure that we have it included in the Finance Act. But I don't think I can promise that we'll get to the finish line in this post office.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201821	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Radicals. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first of all by the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201826	Thank you. I'm not quite sure I understand the logic. You want to solve this. This could be a step in that direction. If the Radicals support it, it is my expectation that there will be a majority, and then it is something that is being imposed on the government, and then it has to be resolved. Then Mrs Zenia Stampe says: well, there is no funding for it. However, Mrs Zenia Stampe knows just as well as I do that when you are an opposition, you present your financial proposals at some point. We're gonna do that in a minute. And, of course, within that framework, funding has also been found for the proposals we are putting forward in this Chamber, just as the Radicals have always done. Of course, there will be here too. So it's kind of like what's our starting point. But my question has to be: can Mrs Zenia Stampe see this as an investment, i.e. a little like Mr. René Christensen mentioned it? We are talking about a corona situation, we need jobs, that is what the companies working on it have said to us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy when we had the hearing. It is also a situation in which we say that if we do not do it now, then the bill will be just bigger, because then we will have to make different dams and the clean-up that we will have to do in perhaps 5 or 10 years is simply bigger. So can't Mrs. Zenia Stampe see this as an investment in getting it solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110201939	Yes, it could be, and that might perhaps be in favour of us getting even more money for it in the Finance Act, and that would be a good thing. But then I'm gonna have to arrest it, just like Mr. Kim. Jacob Jensen started with in relation to funding. It may well be that the Left makes a funding proposal on their Finance Act. If it is as hokuspocusy as last time, something about changing the structure of the region, and then some money comes splashing, then it is hard to take seriously. However, in any case, it will land on our table unless we take a different approach, a little like what was actually my favourite scenario in terms of biodiversity, namely that we, all the parties that want to do this task, met and agreed on the task, but also on funding. I think that would be more appropriate to propose than to propose that the government should now just go up with 2.7 billion. kr. Well, you gotta hope for Mr. Knox. For Jacob Jensen, the government does not find them by simply raising taxes and taxes, because then perhaps I do not think that Mr. Jacob Jensen would be so excited.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202045	Sir. Jacob Jensen for his second comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202046	I just want to make it clear that we are not proposing to cough up at 2.7 billion. kr. What we are saying is that we have to put down 250 million. kr. into the budget law for 2021 based on what Danske Regioner's priority plan says, so that we can just get started with the first phase. That is what the proposal is. And then I've heard that sir... René Christensen makes a proposal that they will bring to the table. All credit and respect for it, but the proposal here amounts to 250 million. kr., just so we have it in place. But I also hear that Mrs Zenia Stampe is actually inviting us to sit together and I would very much like to take that up and see if we can agree on the funding. I'm 100% sure we can. Then we can also find the solution to this issue, which I think should be given priority, even higher than many of the other priorities that the government supported by Mrs Zenia Stampe has otherwise set. I'm just mentioning the early retirement age as an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202134	That is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202135	Well, maybe then, sir. Jacob Jensen will be happy when the Finance Act has been concluded, because I expect that we will have a cut in these generational pollutions with the Finance Act that we are debating now. Of course, I can't promise what the number is going to be, but I think we're thinking the same way. I am not the one who decides who negotiates together. I can try to influence it, but I would really like to sit in a common negotiating room where we talk about both the task and the funding. I always think it is more fair that those who give priority to action are also the ones who pay for it. Frankly, as a member of a party that often finds funding, I am a little tired of it when the two things are separated, so that you can be allowed to give gifts, but not be obliged to find the money. I actually like it when these two things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202224	The next brief remark is from Mrs Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202224-2	Thank you for the speech from Mrs. Zenia Stampe. It sounds very good that Mrs Zenia Stampe has an expectation that there will be money for the generational pollution in the Finance Act. In the Radical Left's financial bill, has one penny been set aside for the generational pollution in the Radical Left's priorities for the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202249-2	There isn't, as far as I remember. But on the other hand, we know that SF is making a demand that we look very favourably on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202302	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202302-2	That is a very good answer when it is not shown in the otherwise excellent draft budget of the Radical Left. I ask, of course, because the Radical Left was very honest after the last Finance Act and said that it was not a matter they had prioritised. So I am glad that the Radical Left then looks with goodwill at SF's demands for financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202332	Yes, and then I hope that SF will look favourably on our wishes. There may even be some that they themselves are happy about and that we are happy about, and that is how I hope we will end up with a draft budget which, moreover, could be the starting point for tackling both this challenge and biodiversity, in relation to low bottoms. It's just some huge tasks we're facing. I was just about to say that I'm glad I'm not Finance Minister. That would actually be very fun and challenging, but it is, in fact, a huge task and not least in view of the situation we are facing now. But I hope and cross my fingers to make it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202410	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202426	Thank you. I don't think anyone in this room is in any doubt that cleaning up after the generational pollution is a matter for the SF. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Left is therefore about one of the environmental policy agendas with which the SF has consistently struggled for decades. We want all the generational pollution to be eliminated, and we have been fighting for that for many years. That is why we are also very pleased that the government and the other supporting parties have succeeded in ensuring that the clean-up of the generational pollution is put in the understanding paper. That is why, in the SF, we are proud that in a joint Parliament, we have agreed that a united Parliament will have cleared up the generational pollution and voted in favour of a proposal for adoption on which the SF and the Left had cooperated. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Left concerns the launch by 2020 of the first phase of cleaning up the 10 generation pollutants and, at the same time, a comprehensive clean-up plan so that it can be managed within the next 10 years. The content of the motion for a resolution is broadly in agreement with the SF, yet we will not be voting in favour of it. In SF we will use our opportunity to get results at the table at the negotiations on the Finance Act. The clean-up of the generational pollution is, in fact, a key requirement of the SF by this year's Finance Act. We are going to set aside 750 million. kr. over 3 years to cover precisely those generational pollutions that are ready to be cleaned up. And we will have a plan for the next phases, where Danske Regions has provided that there are some generational pollutions that need to be qualified more in relation to the economic estimate, but which obviously need to be solved. The negotiations on this year's Finance Act have just begun, and in the SF we actually believe that it will succeed, so that, once the Finance Act has been finalised, millions have been allocated to the generational pollution. So, of course, we also hope that, to our main demands, there is the support of all the parties that have to negotiate financial law. After all, the Left is an erratic party which has also sat with the government, so I wonder whether the rapporteur of the Left also understands that we are not riding on two horses when we are seriously negotiating a budget law? So we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Left, even though the content is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202734	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202738	Thank you for recognising the proposal and actually agreeing with the proposal. That is no wonder, because the proposal is one for what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has been proposing before the financial law negotiations, and Mrs Signe Munk also reaffirms here that it is a main demand from the SF: 750 million. kr. over 3 years. If you can do a little math, that's 250 million. kr. in 2021, and that is exactly what this proposal is all about. One might of course wonder why the SF does not just choose to say: okay, we vote in favour, there is a majority. So we really don't have to put it as a main requirement. Then it's done, then we can make another main demand, and then maybe we'll get even more through the Finance Act. It was just an invitation you could try to consider. Now I know that the word binds and so on. But I am just thinking that it is a little strange that we should agree completely with the proposal, because that is what we ourselves have been out saying and then we are voting against it anyway. But peace be with it, and I admit that there is of course some negotiating tactics about it. My question is: is it not also part of SF's approach that this should be seen as an investment? The price will simply be higher if we wait. There are jobs in this. It is a good investment to get it done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202849	The SF sees the Finance Act as the fastest way to get the money set aside. Where we have focused on the generational pollution is in our green kick-start of the Danish economy, precisely because the construction work, the clean-up work that lies in cleaning up the generational pollution, can provide employment here and now in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202917	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110202918	I agree with that. That is also what I asked before, so I very much agree with that. I just want to ask again: does the SF not recognise that if the SF votes for this proposal and then it is my feeling that there will be a majority in favour of it in the Parliamentary Chamber then it will be something? Then we would not have to negotiate further in the financial law negotiations; then we could concentrate on something else. Is it not true that if there were a majority in this Chamber and the SF would have the decisive votes to ensure that this would be done as it is here? Then, of course, you could negotiate in year 2 and year 3 and year 10. That is also what our proposal suggests that you should not just say year 1, but start there and then make a plan for the remaining nine years, so we have a comprehensive roadmap. However, would the SF rapporteur not recognise that if we voted in favour of it, it would be adopted and then it would be implemented, regardless of the fact that there are financial law negotiations at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203007	It has been repeated before, and I repeat it again: the SF actively chooses to take this as part of the financial law negotiations. We have a proposal for adoption which says that we must find the necessary funding as soon as possible. It is for us to see clearly to take it in the financial law negotiations and not to support the resolution tabled by the Left here. And then I would just like to ask the Left back if perhaps, with the parliamentary experience of a large experienced power party, one does not know that if one is a serious negotiator of a financial law, one does not ride on two horses.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203043	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203046	Thank you for the floor. In this room discussion, disagreement and controversy are very much a source of praise, and sometimes too little. And I think that the SF rapporteur, Mrs Signe Munk, deserves praise in this matter. I think the SF does at all. All the way from Steen Gade to Margrete Auken to Ida Auken to Pia Olsen Dyhr and now to Mrs Signe Munk has been standing on the platform there fighting a brave fight to clean up these generational pollutions, and now it looks like it might succeed. The most toxic thing in this case has hardly been what is in the ground, but the sluggishness that has been in this system, and now it seems that something is finally happening. So I would just like to take this opportunity to say thank you to the SF for that, and I look forward very much to sitting in those debates in the next few days and working for us to actually find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203146	Now I've been playing football for so many years, and there I've always learned that if you don't fight all the way to the last whistle in the game, you can risk losing it. That is why, of course, I would like to thank Mai Villadsen for his very fine praise to the many people who have fought this battle, both politically and also in the Enhedslisten, but in particular also some fire souls who are standing out there expecting a great deal of us, and I feel like part of the good crowd. After all, there is also a united Parliament that is fighting that battle. It is just important to remember that the last whistle has not been whistled, the fight is not over, we are not in goal, there can still be some things happening, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that we are a team fighting for the generational pollution to be put into the budget law. And I find that Enhedslisten is part of that team.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203239	Mrs Mai Villadsen for another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203241	Thank you. Now, Mrs Signe Munk and myself are both Western Jutlanders, and there is humility a virtue. I'm sure it is in most places, but thank you for your recognition back. And Mrs Signe Munk is absolutely right that there are so many people out there, yes, around the whole country who are fighting this battle, and if it hadn't been for them, nothing would have happened; that's very right. And no, it hasn't whistled yet, so we have to keep fighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203311	I can only say there that I agree with Mrs Mai Villadsen, and also acknowledge her very positive attitude towards me as rapporteur, but also a lot of other rapporteurs, with a commendable approach to other rapporteurs and other parties. I think Danish politics is very good for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203332	That can be confirmed. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203351	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Left for once again raising the problem and, indeed, point out that we are faced with major generational pollutions and a major problem in our country which must be resolved. These are pollutions, which mostly dates back to the 1950s and 1960s, where, unfortunately, waste was buried and dumped without necessarily knowing better. It has been given generation by generation and has therefore just been named generational pollutions. But now we are in a situation where we actually have the technology to clean up most of them. We're ready... that's what Danske Regioner says, and that's what the people out there say... and we have to do something. We simply cannot be familiar with allowing the next generations to inherit, for example. the 7 tonnes of mercury at Harboøre Tange at Høfte 42. We cannot afford to let vinyl chloride leak into the stream at Grindsted. We need to stop those pollutions because they risk damaging health, nature and our groundwater. That's why we have to do something now. I am, in fact, very pleased with the debate that has taken place in the Chamber today, because it highlights the fact that there are a great many of us who are going to do something about the problem. I am particularly pleased that it is across the Folketing that we want it and there are good ideas on how we can get started. I fully agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party when he says that we might as well use some of the opportunities that exist to borrow money to solve this particular problem. The Enhedslisten also proposes that money from the war fund, which is intended to stimulate labour in our society, should be used in the Finance Act to solve this particular problem. Then we will create jobs and ensure that some of the people who are currently losing the job as a result of the corona crisis can come out and do something meaningful, get some money for it and at the same time do a hugely good job by cleaning up the toxic reasons we have around. It is perfectly logical and wise to do exactly that, so I have a clear hope and expectation that the government will, of course, participate in it. That is also why I do not support this proposal as a starting point, but it is clear that if we do not get through finding the money to clean up the generational pollution in the negotiations we are in right now, we will of course be open to finding a majority in the Folketing to solve this problem, because it is so great that we cannot let party colours and differences down here in the Folketing decide whether it will be solved or not. It has to be resolved. I would also like to say that, in addition to the generational pollution, we have a problem with the 37 000 other contaminated sites around our country. And sometimes I can be worried that it's eager to solve this sometimes shadows the eagerness to do something about the other reasons. That must not happen, so I also hope that we can now commit ourselves to continuing to clean up those lands and to adding more funds. The Danish Regions, which are responsible for this, also say that this task is growing above their heads financially. That too has to be seen. Finally, I would just like to welcome the fact that today we are standing in a place that looks brighter than it has been for a long time, but as Mrs Signe Munk from the SF said on the platform, you should not lower your shoulders until we are fully in the finish line. We are not yet, but I very much hope that in the financial law negotiations that we have, we will be able to get the money off. And in the Enhedslisten, we propose spending 750 million with the war fund. kr. over the next few years to clean up the generational pollution and to set 150 million in addition. kr. for some of the other contaminated lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203832	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203836	Thank you for one, I was just about to say, as always very positive way of taking the proposals down, despite the fact that we come from different political wings or whatever to call it. I also sit on the board of the Danish Regions and am a member of the Regional Council of Region Sjælland and can only confirm that and I am very, very happy about what Mrs Mai Villadsen says that we should not let this overshadow the many, many thousands of other soil pollutions. But it is also clear that these are very large, and they are costly and affect the environment a lot, so that is why, like is the priority. Having said that, I should like to understand the statement that perhaps we will come back and support the proposal, in the sense that if the Enhedslisten does not get through with something at least equivalent to what is here, i.e. 250 million. kr. In 2021, will you come back and say that we will support this resolution? Then I think we have come a good deal, because then we have achieved what lies here as a minimum. So should I understand that expression in such a way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110203943	I will ask my group, but as a starting point I think that yes, that must be how we do it. I think it is problematic that this proposal does not indicate any funding, but if one can agree so far, I do not think it should be a problem to find a majority here in Parliament, just as one has worked to see whether one could agree in this area in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204010	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204010-2	I'll take my chances. I have not been able to consult the rapporteurs of finance or anyone else, but if we then say that we agree that the funding can be found through the war fund, because that is the argument I have put forward several times: when you say that you want to support jobs in a coronatide and that is what you want to use the war box for, we can also find the means in the war box to support precisely the jobs that this will bring about. This has been confirmed in the committee during the hearing, that is to say that it will lead to jobs. So if it is the funding proposal that we can agree on, I hear it as if this is going through at least, otherwise the Enhedslist will come back to us and then we will vote it through in the Parliamentary Chamber. Can I get a confirmation of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204053	Unfortunately, it is not the Enhedslisten who is sitting on the war box, and it is not the Left either, so I think it is a little difficult to come after a budget debate where all the money has been distributed and then seize it in here. But we certainly support the intention, perhaps through loans, to find a solution to this problem, as the rapporteur for the DF suggested earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204118	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204127	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. I am still away from our environmental rapporteur and we have reached the last point, and it is the case that they are actually still banging a little outside, so I think they are cheering for us a little longer. The Left proposes here to instruct the government to finance and launch the first phase of the clean-up of the 10 generation pollutions by the end of the year, based on regional priorities, and to put forward a concrete plan so that clean-up can be managed within the next ten years. On 6 March this year, Danish Regions sent a comprehensive plan for the 10 generation pollutions to the Minister for the Environment. On 4 June this year, Parliament also agreed to instruct the government to work to find the necessary funding as soon as possible to clean up the generational pollution, based on the regional priorities. And that is why, of course, it is also very important that the government gets into gear and prioritises the funds and gets it cleaned up. Of the ten pollutants, the regions have planned the clean-up work to a level where the only thing they are waiting for is funding. This applies to three pollutants: Høfde 42, Cheminova's old factory site and Kærgård Klitplantage. In addition, we believe that it is necessary to implement a deterrent measure on the Collstrupgrunde, thereby avoiding the spread of pollution from it into the surrounding nature. Now the SF's rapporteur mentioned something about football. I have also played a lot of football, and I cannot help saying that a good motto is that you should always remember to play your wing, even if it is ill, and I will of course do that here in relation to the Left. We certainly support the intention of the proposal, but we need to find out how it is to be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204309	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204324	Thank you. I am working on a new book, which must be about politics, and it must be about cases where two thirds of the population are against something, but the problem cannot be solved anyway. There are some of these problems in which the whole population is opposed, but nothing can be done about it, and one of the things that everyone is opposed to, but which cannot be addressed, is generational pollution. They have just been there decade after decade, and we can also hear it in this Chamber: no one is opposed to the intention of the Left's proposal. There's just not a majority for it, because it doesn't have to be solved this way. It has to be solved in all sorts of other ways. I believe, in fact, that if I gather ten examples of policy areas that all people are opposed to, but which the Danish Parliament will not solve, I will also have a very good Compendium on the causes of politicians. Because the reason why no one is going to comply with this proposal is that it should not be dealt with in the way the Left proposes. It must be resolved in all sorts of other ways, and it will of course remain unresolved. The short of the long term is that there is simply no political will to solve these generational pollutions, although everyone says it could be a fine idea. We have also been in government ourselves, and some of what, of course, is destroying the political will is the Ministry of Finance, because of course it is the case that you would like to solve this problem, but then the Ministry of Finance comes and says: this is not possible. After all, we have tried that ourselves, and that is probably what the current government is going to do, because the money is going to be spent on everything else. I think it was too bad that we did not get to grips with the problem when we were in the government ourselves, but unfortunately we also had a Ministry of Finance. Now I will at least sign and say that I think it is a very good proposal, and of course we support it, even though the generational pollution is never removed • although everyone hates them • because it would be politically lacking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204537	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can see that there is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. Sir. René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204543	It was actually just to reflect on the rapporteur's speech, because it was a little philosophical. But that is also true, of course, in other words the experience that the Ministry of Finance says it cannot be done. But if you look at the Ministry of Finance today and if you look at the Ministry of Finance 12 months ago, we have another Ministry of Finance today. We also have some other economic wise men than we had 12 months ago. It was not long ago that we had the financial statement, and there were the wise men in the Committee on Finance and Finance saying that the loan framework should not exceed 60%. of gross domestic product, we should sort of jump up and fall on. For Denmark, such a recognized country was in the world, so we could easily be the triple-A-rat anyway. We were supposed to stimulate the economy. This proposal is the way in which the Danish People's Party proposes it, i.e. by setting it in motion through borrowings is precisely to stimulate the economy. So it can be said that both the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the economic wise men say that when you take loans in these times, with the interest rates that are, it is not dangerous because it is not structural. After all, this is not an operational expenditure that we are setting in motion from now on to eternity. It's over a 10-year period, and then we're done, and then we've remunerated our money too. So does the rapporteur not believe that if we were more people who could sort of agree on how we would do it, then we would actually be somewhere else now than we have been together in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204703	Now, of course, there is a certain element of controversy in wanting to make a book about things that everyone is opposed to, but which the Folketing will not solve. I'm going to make the book, because it's always puzzled me, because you'd think there were some free opportunities here to get popular. Everyone hates something, but we just don't get anything done about it. It sounds like a sensible proposal, but the point is that there is no majority in favour of doing so here. Because then you risk the Danish People's Party getting credit for it, and then there are a lot of others who don't get credit for it and then the problem isn't solved anyway. So that is quite right, of course, but that is the policy, and of course the rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204745	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204753	The book which the previous rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance, intending to write, I look forward to reading. I believe that lots of examples can be written that parties on one side of the Folketing have struggled for a very long time to solve a problem, and when it is resolved, parties from the other side of the Folketing jump up as a troll by a box and try to take credit for it. I hope that the author will take examples from both sides of the House. However, I also hope that Mr. Henrik Dahl, if he's using this story as an example, will mention that it's one of the cases that's gonna be I'm happy with this resolution, which puts further focus on the generational pollution and further pressure on the government to find money for it. I think this suggests that we will be the generation that will clean up the generational pollution, and I look forward to seeing that very, very much. We also think that loan financing would be a good idea. And if DF can lure the finance minister into borrowing 2.7 billion. kr. At a super interest rate, we are in a completely new situation, and then we will certainly look very sympathetic to DF from the alternative side. We think it is a fine motion for a resolution which in many ways copies SF's plans to eliminate generational pollution, and there we would like to support the original and support the SF's desire to find the money in the Finance Act when we come to those negotiations. Honorable to the one to be honored. And this I think the SF has been working for many years, and the named people have also been lined up, i.e. the people who have carried out the work to make us the generation that gets rid of the generational pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110204951	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, so I should like to welcome the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mr President. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205009	Thank you for that, and thank you for one, in fact I think in many ways, good and objective debate. I am also looking forward to reading the book that Mr. Henrik Dahl announced here because I think it can be very entertaining and educational for all of us. I had actually made a script about all the generational pollution and all the terrible things that also the people who live around and as neighbours of them experience and the concern they have. But I'm actually gonna jump away from my script, because we've been around these things so we've been around them in a number of consultations. As Mrs Signe Munk also mentioned, we have had a question debate here initiated by the SF and the Left, where we also had a joint Parliament behind a proposal for adoption which was to impose upon the government as soon as possible or was it as soon as possible? There have been a number of committee issues. We have had a hearing where Danske Regioner was also represented, and companies working for the purpose were represented, and they also said that there was really nothing to wait for. A priority plan had been drawn up; Danske Regionser had done what had been asked for; the companies were ready, and there was even available capacity because the corona crisis scratched, thus enabling activities to start as part of the corona preparedness and at the same time also solving this problem. It is true that it has been said that it has been talked about at length and that it has been done less, and this applies to changing governments. I don't want anyone doing better than they are. As I see it, the time is also ripe for this, given that technology is now ready not necessarily to get to the bottom of all ten, but at least so clear that it has plenty to do in the first planning period and then develop the technologies that are needed to achieve them fully. That is also what the proposal is proposing, precisely to get things moving in the first planning period, and thus to see that something is going to happen now, but at the same time also to have a roadmap set up for a 10-year period, so that we can say to the people who live out there, that they can count on them within 10 years, and that may seem like a long time, but if you have waited for it for countless generations, then perhaps 10 years is clear. I also believe, as has been said, that it was also during the consultation of the companies and also of others that the bill will simply increase. The financial bill will get bigger if we wait another generation. This will mean that we have to do this, you might say, intermediate measures, in other words, where we ensure some containment and, at the very least, do things that do not get to the bottom of it, but just keep the status quo, and the environment that is affected by these generational pollutions is in danger of really being affected, and thus the clean-up that will then take place will be far, far more extensive. So the bill would be bigger if we wait. As I said, I also believe what was said at the hearing of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment and Food, namely that there are actually jobs in this, so it will also be a good investment at a time when we need all the jobs and the activity that can be obtained. So it will also yield a social-positive return. As I have said, we have adopted a proposal for adoption in the Folketing, which all parties are behind and which obliges the government to work on this as soon as possible. I would have expected that to be in the proposal for a Finance Act that the government would make, but that was not the case, because no money had been set aside for it. I think that if you listen to the parties that have been here today, the answers that have been given were actually expected. The government party says you want to do it, but you don't put any money into it, and then you kiss us for a whole lot of money that we want to fire in the public sector, and I don't know what. I thought it was a very irresponsible speech. On the other hand, I think there were very serious contributions from many other parties, including the SF, which actually sign for the proposal, and that is no wonder, because it matches what the SF itself thinks, and Mrs Signe Munk also said from the platform that it does. But for technical or tactical reasons, it is said that we are voting against it here in order to bet on getting it through in the Finance Act and I am not entirely in agreement with that, but I shall not interfere at all with it; it is, of course, an assessment which the SF and the SF alone have to make and then you see the result in that way. I hope, on the other hand, that the proposal here has helped to put pressure on the budget negotiations, despite the fact that we are not expected to be in the end, but now we come to the sitting here, and then we have to see that we can also use it on the part of the SF to say to the government: if it does not get through here, then we have some other options. Similarly, I also heard Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten say that one would come back and say to a majority in the Danish Parliament, as there is clearly, that if one does not achieve at least what lies here in the financial law negotiations, one goes back and takes it in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think that was actually very sensible, with all due respect for having to go home and ask the group, etc. etc., I know all too well about that, but of course that is what it has to be. The Radicals were also positive and spoke a little about funding, and it always suits the Radicals to talk about funding. We are very much in agreement with this, and we will show that when we present our draft budget. The Radicals have not then set aside money for it themselves, one could hear in an answer to the SF, so it was perhaps a little free of charge that we were put in the mouth, that we said to the government that we should find the funding, while Radicals themselves said to the SF that it should find the funding, but that is how it can go on. What is important about this proposal is that we get to work on what is needed, namely action. And there's nothing to wait for. There is a road map, there is a priority list, and there is a friendly Parliament that has adopted a proposal for adoption which says that we must do this as soon as possible, and now, of course, there are some financial law negotiations where I have great respect for trying to get the result through. I hope you can, too. Otherwise, at least we are prepared to help everything we can, because it is important for the people who live out there and who have lived with uncertainty and concern in everything, for too many years. Of course, it is also important for the environment, which is what this is all about, so that we clean up as quickly as possible. So I just want to end by thanking you for all the comments. And I was almost saying good luck to those who are going to be involved in the budget negotiations, but, as I said, we are ready and we want to help with everything we can at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205709	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205715	Thank you for a persistent work after some time perhaps the slowness when the Left itself was in government, but an honest and solid piece of work has been done by the Left around the generational pollutions. We also have a fine debate today. Perhaps the honest answer from the SF was not quite what the rapporteur summed up by saying that it is for tactical reasons that it is quite honest. The first and fastest way of financing to find money to clean up the generational pollution is for the SF to see the finance negotiations. In the discussion about where the money is to be found, I think you should be careful not to pretend that it stops at this financial law that comes in several stages. SF has previously been out suggesting that a chemical tax should be made and that money should be spent to clean up the generational pollution. It was so wise in that proposal that it was a tax on what pollutes which could be used to clean up all the dirt that lies in the ground. Could the Left imagine backing such a proposal to finance the clean-up of generational pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205819	I like the principle: the polluter pays. I think that is such a fundamental principle, but of course there are all kinds of prerequisites in it as a heading. I would really prefer not to make extra taxes at a time when we are already struggling to maintain competitiveness and jobs in Denmark. And when I look at what opportunities we have and, as I have said, we should show where we are in relation to the financing part, I just think that when you talk very warmly in order to hold your hand under jobs with the so-called war box, it must be an obvious place so that we do not have to put extra charges on someone who is already struggling with beaks and claws to keep things together for a difficult time. So that must be my answer. But I am also in favour of not voting in favour of a resolution. And it has nothing to do with me being polemical here, so that a proposal doesn't come from you and who gets credit for it and something like that. I totally agree with that. This is also the point that it is in the financial law negotiations that the money is found to be quite concrete. I just think that if we adopted it here in the Parliament, it would have been implemented, it would have been implemented, and we could then concentrate on some other priorities of the Finance Act. But all due respect for the work of the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205932	Mrs Signe Munk for another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110205933	I am going to go a little further with the chemicals tax, because it is both in environmental policy and in climate policy that the Left has good ambitions. It is my impression and in theory is clear that the polluter has to pay, but when we go down and discuss a tax in concrete terms, it is more about a tax freeze and that taxes should not increase; and then environmental and climate concerns fade from time to time. So I hope then that the Left will consider whether it should actually be the polluter who pays once and for all, even when it is business.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210007	Now you can say that it is true that we have a tax freeze. We love that very much, and we protect it in relation to the things we agree to. However, precisely in the environmental field, we have precisely the curly fact that if there are specific environmental issues, we have that opportunity, in other words, in our policy. So it is not because it is the tax stop in itself that prevents it. I just feel that if we could find alternatives and we can do that, according to what I said earlier, I would prefer it in exactly the time we are in now, when we do not need to put additional burdens on those who already find it difficult to keep jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210047	The next brief remark is from Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210048	Thank you. I would simply like to ask the rapporteur, in all his simplicity, whether the rapporteur has ever seen a government which, on its accession, writes in an understanding paper that it wants to deal with generational pollution and take responsibility. For example, has the Left ever taken a similar step? And have not those wordings brought us any closer to getting started, that we can get something concrete done about the generational pollution and purification?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210124	The short answer to the two questions is no and no. After all, this is not about what is on a piece of paper, because neither the environment nor the people living in the area can use it for anything, to put it quite frankly. You can use something to conclude political agreements in this Chamber or by a majority, for example in a financial law debate that really makes it difference. And so I don't give much apologies, with all due respect for the understanding paper, for what it says in such a paper, when you can see time and time again that we postpone straight, and then we do straight, and then reference is made to the fact that no plan has been made, and then there are some other excuses. There are no more excuses. The plan is there, and there is a friendly, yes, in fact a united Parliament that wants this to be implemented. So I sincerely hope that the government listens, and I believe that the government does, because otherwise, I have heard, at least from Mrs Mai Villadsen, that there is a majority outside the government that pushes it through here instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210218	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210220	After all, following on from the understanding paper, it has been said here in the debate both by the Minister for the Environment and me that negotiations are taking place in connection with the Finance Act and that the government would like to discuss these issues. And isn't that right, and now I can hope that I can get a yes and not a "no" that it's almost unheard of that the presentation of political motions doesn't have a funding, an authorisation for funding? Isn't it a good custom to have it? It has become apparent from this resolution that it was totally gone that there was no direction from the Left Party to their own resolution. Isn't that almost unheard of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210303-2	I have praised all the other parties, but I simply cannot praise the Socialist rapporteur in this debate. I'm sorry, it's nothing personal, but the approach of taking this so frivolous and the way to discuss things, I'm having a really hard time dealing with it. Having said that, however, we do of course have a financial bill, and there we will also have funding for this issue, and Mr. Troels Ravn is completely safe. So, polemics can of course be very useful and enjoyable, but you just don't have that in the areas where you are waiting for • time and time again because there is a lack of action behind the words that you have written in your understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210341	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. As I see that no one else has asked to speak, the debate is now closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201110210357	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 November 2020 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
