ParlaMint-DK_20200331100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 161 (Proposal for a law on the postponement of holidays in connection with covid-19). Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 162 (Proposal for a law amending the law on parental responsibility. Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 163 (Proposal for a Law amending the Daily Offers Act. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 164 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Nature Conservation. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 165 (Proposal for a law amending the Share Saving Account Act, the withholding tax Act, the Corporate Tax Act and the Tax Reporting Act. Minister for Defence (Trine Bramsen): Bill No. L 166 (Proposal for a law on the development and operation of the Skrydstrup Air Station). Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. L 167 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recognition of Certain Educational and Vocational Qualifications). June 2018 on a proportionality test prior to the adoption of new regulation of professions, as well as the right of appeal in matters relating to professional passports and to the issuing of warnings)). Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 168 (Proposal for a Law authorizing temporary derogations from the obligations of undertakings in the field of company and accounting and from the rules limiting the opening hours of shops in connection with the Coronavirus disease covid-19). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 161 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on halting the reception of asylum seekers during the Corona crisis). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Agenda item 4 (Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community) L 158 (Proposal for a law amending the law on The proposal is expected to be discussed at a meeting later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100156	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100209	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100231	At the first reading of L 144, that is to say the proposal now before us for second reading, I raised on behalf of the Left the problem of special medical students joining the Corona job banks of the regions and that they might have to work free of charge. I announced that, on behalf of the Left, I wanted to table an amendment so that the Danish Parliament could deal with the possibility of raising the limit on free allowances, in particular for students who are joining the Corona crisis in solving tasks and jobs. At second reading, I would like to thank the Minister for Education and Research for the amendment which has been drawn up and which actually goes even further, for the time when all students will now be exempt from the risk of being affected by the free limit. This means that all students who help solve social-critical tasks in relation to the covid-19 crisis will be exempted from having to work free of charge if I can use that expression and I think it is a huge, huge hand-out, a huge, huge declaration of confidence for the many students who may be on the verge of saying: should we volunteer or should we not volunteer? So thank you very much to the Minister and also to all the parties in the Folketing, which I understand according to the report supports the proposal that was originally the Left. So thank you for that. There is just one small comment about the way in which this should happen, where I understand it is going to be done by an actual application that the student must send. There is only one call for the Minister to ensure that it is as little bureaucratic as possible and that it is as easily transparent as possible. I think we'd all be better off with that. However, I would like to thank Parliament for its support for the proposal I put forward on behalf of the Left at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100458	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100508	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100525	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100543	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100600	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331100635	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 12.00 with the third reading of the draft legislation which has just been examined and the first reading of L 161, L 168 and B 158. I am also referring to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
