ParlaMint-DK_20200117100015	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. L 96 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the regulation of admission to higher education. Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increasing action against shoplifting and heeling). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200117100051	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 21 January 2020. I now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of a explanatory statement, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117100119	Thank you. On January 6, 2020, Berlingske published an article on the newspaper's website that had spectacular news about the number of foreigners in Denmark. The latest report on immigration in Denmark from Statistics Denmark showed that there were 506.570 immigrants and descendants with a non-western background in Denmark. However, new figures, which one researcher has made Danmarks Statistik calculate, show that there are an additional 400 000 people in Denmark who are wholly or partly from non-western countries such as Turkey, Iraq and Pakistan. What is happening and has taken place in Denmark is the beginning of a population replacement driven by immigration, child births and marriages in the form of family reunifications in the group of immigrants and descendants. The disaster occurred with the Aliens Act in 1983. Pr. 31 December 1983, before the entry into force of the new alien law, the number of asylum cases pending in Denmark was 186. The following year, with the new alien law, the figure was 3.097. The funny thing is that I have found the figures myself because I myself, many years ago, asked questions to a Minister of Justice named Erik Ninn-Hansen. And then the number rose and increased. The time is about to fall into battle for Denmark's survival as a homogeneous nation, for our homeland, for the Danish people. At that time, in 1983, many thought that integration would go smoothly. I've never subscribed to that view. How do you merge a religion and culture as strange and backward as it is, of clan mentality, of women's oppression and violence with a civilisation such as the European and a culture like the Danish? It can't be done. What makes us Danish? How do we deal with our culture, our values and our standards under pressure from immigration? This is the subject of today's debate, which I look forward to very much; a debate in principle on value policy, which the Danish People's Party raises at least once a year. This is the debate that is taking place today, and I look very much forward to hearing the views of the government in particular, of course, but also those of other parties. I think it is one of the most important issues that Denmark and parliament politicians can deal with at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117100350	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions, and I give the floor to the Prime Minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117100401	Thank you for that, and first of all thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate. I fully agree with the questioners that this is an important debate and I will go straight to the answer. In my view, Denmark is a very valuable society. We have some very, very strong common values that have been developed over generations and which I believe are a very, very important explanation for the fact that we are today so strong a society and have such a strong society. Let me try here to delve into some of the values that I as Prime Minister and we as government think are particularly important. Of course, it is not an exhaustive list, but here a focus on some of the values we think are the most important. First of all, having a strong community in Denmark has developed without being in contrast to the individual having his own right, and that in my optics is absolutely crucial to the further discussion, because I think we see too many tendencies among people coming from outside to precisely a oppression of the individual we can never accept and never must accept. Secondly, democracy, the rule of the people, our constitution is above religion. Our rapporteur on foreigners has formulated it incredibly wisely and precisely, namely that God has a duty to give way. There's nothing above the Folketing. There is nothing above the Constitution, and one cannot invoke whatever religious background one may have, any special privileges or a special right to oppress others because one has a religion. This is where I hope we will come back, because we have also recently heard examples in the area of divorce, where it is quite incomprehensible to me that there are imams in Denmark who should have an opinion on that issue, because divorce law is legal and it is adopted here in the House. I'll get back to that. Thirdly, children, children's rights, the protection of children. Childhood is not just a preparation to grow up. It is a self-important period in every human being's life. It may in fact be the most important, and that is why, if you want to join Danish values, you have to respect the child and look after the child. I am, of course, very pleased that the New Year's speech I have only managed to hold one; hopes that there will be more people who have received a great deal of attention when it comes to children at risk. I am sorry that the section dealing with many children with ethnic minority backgrounds has not received the same attention: the issue of violence, where we know and we hear many examples that many children with minority backgrounds are subjected to violence in our society. I think we have to be honest and say that there is something touching about taking action against it from the rest of society. Here, of course, you can discuss whether the fact that you are not allowed to beat your children is a Danish value. I hope it has been. When the Nyrup government abolished the right of revulsion in the 1990s, not all the parties voted in favour, but I think that if somebody today stepped up in this Chamber and suggested that we should be allowed to reinstate the right of reproof, we would of course agree to oppose it. So this is also an example of how Danish values can move. Today I hope it is a basically important Danish value that you do not, of course, hit your children. In relation to this, I myself am extremely concerned about the overly strong tendencies we see in some immigrant environments, in relation to social control, especially of girls. What I would prefer to say, perhaps, when we discuss values, is that in my view there is no room for value relativism. All values are not equal, and when we speak values, we have to make a choice. That is why, of course, we should not accept gender-separated swimming instruction in Denmark either, because the separation of the sexes is based on a wrong set of values in my view, and there you will be relativist, and I do not think there is room for that. I think you have to stand firm on your values. In Denmark, of course, boys and girls can swim side by side and should not be divided either by the watch or by curtains, as we have seen in some swimming pools. This brings me to the next point: what I myself regard as a very, very important Danish value, and it is an equality between men and women that I do not think we should compromise on in any way whatsoever. Last Tuesday a new report from VIVE showed that a group of immigrant women are having major problems getting out of their marriage because of their Muslim background. I would like to repeat what I said before: there is only one law in Denmark, and that is what is being adopted here. We must take this seriously, and in the government we are now looking into how we can have a fight with the so-called Muslim divorces, because I do not think we should have them at all. I don't see why imams have to deal with whether people are getting a divorce or not. I understand that you may need to have a religious lingue, for example. When you're getting married. Many of us have and want that. I also understand that you want your children baptized and confirmed, but I really cannot understand why a religion should interfere in divorces, because that is, in my view, a legal measure. We look into what we can do about that. I also welcome a financial law which also has a separate focus on women's crisis centres, and now I say this very directly: there is a strong over-representation in the country's crisis centres of women with a minority background, and that is because in some environments it is simply more accepted and it is more recognised that both children and women are hit. It doesn't belong. It does not belong in any society, but it certainly does not belong in Denmark. There's something touching on this field, and it's been there all these years. The next value I would like to bear in mind is that you have to support yourself. You have to get up in the morning and think: what can I do to contribute to this society, and what can I do to support myself and my family and, by the way, be a positive contribution? For many, many reasons, one can be in a situation where one cannot support oneself, and that is why we have a welfare society and a strong social safety net. But we also have to look into a gloomy statistic here, namely that too many people have come here who do not support themselves, especially women with a non-Western background. There are a lot of people who support themselves and make an important contribution to our economy too, but there are too many who, for many years too, do not support themselves. It cannot be simply said that it is labour market policy and a matter of the economy, because here too it is a matter of culture, and in my view too many men are forcing their women not to go to work, and it is of no use. And in my view, it is not compatible with our society either. The next value I'd like to crack down on is a little bit more I don't know which word you can use... fluffy, which I don't know about is a recognized Danish word. But this is the fact that we know each other, that we have built up a society for generations, where inequality has not been allowed to grow too large, and it is a society with a strong cohesion. We play football with each other, we go to school together, we eat together in the cafeteria, and we interfere. Not everyone has done that, I know that, but a very, very large part of the Danish modern folk culture also originates from a fairly mixed society. We just have to say that things are going very much the opposite way, and this should concern the Folketing much more than is the case. Here I am curious whether the parties concerned with Danish values and the fact that we have control of foreign policy will also deliver votes when this government begins to be concrete in how we get mixed up, for example. Our kids some more. If the market is allowed to decide, we will have more and more ethnically divided schools, educational institutions, day care centres and residential areas. In my view, this is a real threat to Danish values, because we are going to be separate from each other. Here I am very, very excited about whether we will see any backbone here in the Danish Parliament, for example. to ensure that not only can one choose high school as one would like, but that we start to assume a political responsibility for young people going to a mixed school, including youth education. Perhaps the last value that I would like to stress is that it is not an exhaustive list that you behave properly, that you take responsibility for the society that you are part of, that you do not care. I think that the rapporteur on immigration and integration has said very precisely a few days ago: that you do not park on the bike path, that you do not park in the disabled parking lot, that you do not fire fireworks at other people, that you do not fire fire at our firemen, that you do not harass our ambulance rescuers, that you respect the police, that you behave properly. Fortunately, a lot of people do, but too many do not, and when we look at this here and down in crime statistics, there is, unfortunately, an ethnic twist that is unacceptable. Having said all this, I would like to stress that there are thousands of people with minority backgrounds who have come to Denmark. They have become Danish citizens. They pay their taxes. They go to work and they support themselves. They'll make sure the kids get on their way. They've become football trainers or whatever they're involved in. They observe the law and they do what you have to do when you come to a new society, namely take part in it. They take responsibility for it, and they become Danish. That is right, very positive, and we must always emphasise this, because there are also many generalisations when we talk about foreign policy. However, with this emphasis, there are so great challenges that I think the question debate is quite relevant and, like the rapporteur for the questioners, I am also concerned about the further development of our society if we do not get more control over the fundamental values. When I was in kindergarten it's about to be a few years back, but so long ago it wasn't even one in a hundred in Denmark that had a non-western background. That number has changed radically. Today, more than one in five newborns has a mother who is an immigrant or descendant. It has happened in just a few decades. And the most important thing, when we talk about integration and thus Danish values, is that we have control of foreign policy, because the number has an impact on our ability to integrate, and that is why we must pursue a strict immigration policy, and we must continue to do so. I am glad that there is broad support for this in the Folketing. And yes, the Social Democrats have changed their attitude in this area. I myself have been better late than never. And I would like to acknowledge that some people saw it more precisely and here I am also looking at the rapporteur for the questioners than I myself did. Today, we are in a similar position to pursue a strict policy on foreigners, and that is absolutely crucial. So I would like to finish by saying that when we look back at these approx. Forty years, is one of the things that remains... I think we've been too unclear, that we've been too imprecise in our demands and expectations. This has been unwise, because when we make demands on each other, we also show that we take each other seriously, and that is the prerequisite for us to be able to strengthen cohesion and thus maintain a society that is fundamentally based on trust. It also means, of course, that you should not be afraid of touching. You can talk properly, and you can discuss properly, but it is no use not discussing the problems that are there and they are here and they are serious. With those words and with the listing of some of the most important Danish values, I hope that we will have a very good debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101623	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. It is now the case that there is one brief comment for the rapporteurs. Here you go to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101627	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. I couldn't help pulling a little bit on the smile tape... so it was too tempting, and it just came from inside... when the Prime Minister used the expression that you had to have a political backbone. I am glad that it is not like a earthworm, as it has been for several years with most politicians, including those in the Prime Minister's party. I can only praise the fact that one can now talk about these problems; that one goes to it; that one really recognizes that there are enormous problems in Denmark because one has left everything to be done, too many years. What I would like to focus a little on is the introduction, where the Prime Minister touched on the New Year's speech, and where the Prime Minister then touched on children with other ethnic backgrounds and forced removals.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is fine, and I really believe that the Prime Minister has become aware of all the problems in families where you have a different ethnic background, after the Danish People's Party has repeatedly pointed this out after the New Year's speech. I did not hear much about it in the New Year's speech, and perhaps it has in fact been the reason why the Prime Minister's New Year's speech was not taken so well. Because I really don't think there was. But otherwise I think it is fine that we should be made clear here from the platform that the constitution is the most important thing; Islam is not the most important thing; human rights and conventions are not the most important thing. And I will take that debate at another time and hold the Prime Minister to the point that the Constitution is the most important, not conventions and Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101757	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101801	In fact, when we talk about children, I have no doubt that there is a group of children from outside who are growing up in Denmark today who are not living very good lives. After all, there are different explanations for the violence being one of them. Growing up in a family where Mother, for example, is completely unintegrated, does not speak the language, cannot attend parent meetings and does not know what moves, can also be an explanation. And on top of that, we can then put what is true of some, namely some of the new restrictions on radicalisation and terror that we touched on yesterday on the part of the government. This environment also exists in Denmark, and that means that there are children growing up in homes where there is resistance to the society they must be part of and where freedom and democracy are rejected. And that's why there's a special job in having a child's angle on this discussion. But when, for example, it does. If we are talking about violence against children, we must be firm that we must not beat our children in Denmark and that we do not want to compromise on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101904	The next question is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117101909	Thanks for the speech, that was a snare to listen to. There was very little that I disagreed with... perhaps just the remark that God has a duty to give way. In my universe God has never given way, but religion that has been politicized has always given way. And that is actually the challenge here: we must say that we reject Christianity when it becomes political, and we must also distance ourselves from political Islam. And that is what we have got for our coasts to an extent where we find it difficult to deal with. Now there is all this agreement, and I thank you very much for the words. But I still wonder when we know that what matters is the number and that the number has something to do with where people are going. And there are such three factors as where people are going. You want to go somewhere where somebody from your family lives. You'd like to go somewhere where there's a lot of people from your culture circle. And then, in particular, we are looking for a place where the benefits are as high as possible. Why, then, have benefits been raised for unemployed foreigners in particular?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102025	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102028	First of all, I would like to say that we have not just raised the benefits. In other words, we have made a temporary increase in family allowances until the Service Commission has completed its work. And if you read the education to the Service Commission, you will see that our idea and our aim is not to set up the benefits. We have a challenge, and the questioner knows this well, in relation to children who grow up with very, very great deprivation. This may give rise to some other problems. I hope you will acknowledge that in this discussion. But the Social Democrats and the government are not in favour of just setting up the benefits, and for me it is also quite fundamental that it is actually of no use that you can just go to Denmark, and then you can get high benefits. You have to do something before, in my view, you qualify to be part of the Danish welfare society, because it is based on right and duty. And when we look back at the last 40 years, we have to say that it was one of the places where many of us stumbled • some more than others because, in fact, in our eagerness to be decent and treat people properly, we went too far away from what is actually the Danish starting point, namely that we have to do something first. And if you go all the way back to the slogans of the trade union movement it is not certain that the questioner is as concerned about it as I was originally said: Do your duty and demand your right. And, unfortunately, we had too many people coming here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102146	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102151	Thank you. I would like to follow up on that issue in relation to the higher benefits for refugees. There was a long answer, but I do not think we got to the bottom of it. Are the benefits temporarily increased by 3 million? kr., temporary, or is it something that we can expect to be part of a firm solution? Because then it really worries us a lot, in other words that it is something that in turn will make Denmark a little more attractive to those refugees who, in refugee flows, go up to Europe to shop around where you get the highest benefits, the best conditions, etc., as Mads Fuglede said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102223	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102226	In other words, we are talking about a temporary increase in the children's cheque for some of the families who, you might say, have been affected or how should you put it? Our aim is that a Service Commission has now been set up to work and it is with the very, very clear focus that it should be worthwhile to work, and that we also believe that there should be a difference in whether you have been in Denmark for many years and hopefully have done everything you have to when you are a Dane and whether you come from abroad. So we think it's temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102300	The next question is Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102303	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech. I think she pointed to many of the integration challenges that I also think are important that we overcome in Denmark. However, it was a little over my chest at the end of the speech when the Prime Minister said that she is in the same place as the Danish People's Party in relation to a strict foreign policy. I think that's pretty far to go. What does the Prime Minister think of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard in her speech, for example? are talking about backward cultures and religions and also talking about a replacement of the population, which is such a classic YouTube conspiracy term used in the most right-wing radical circles? Does the Prime Minister mean any of the same things, or what does she think about those statements?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102345	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102348	Well, if we look at Islam today, and if we look at the countries that are Muslim, then Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is absolutely right, at least as far as some of the countries are concerned. Of course, this is not a comprehensive picture. After all, I know a lot of people with a Muslim background who are democrats, of course, and who have pushed religion to where religion has to be, namely that it is the political decisions that apply and that then you can have a religious relationship in addition. But if you look at a number of countries today, then there are really, really serious problems there. Yesterday, after all, the government presented a number of initiatives in relation to foreign fighters and terrorists in general, and if you look at it, as for example. The Islamic State has wanted to implement a caliphate, it is hard to explain it in other words than what the questioner proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102440	The next question is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102446	In fact, I think that one of the things that is at least positive in what the Prime Minister said is that we must be clear in our expectations and our demands on people. I think that makes it easier for everyone. One requirement that I also think is really important is that you should work if you can work. In my opinion, this is the case, regardless of who you are, here in Denmark. I would therefore like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that it is positive for integration that we have got a hole in the paradigm shift, so among other things. refugees who work can actually be allowed to stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102527	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102530	The paradigm shift passes. A small change has been made, which means that if you have been in employment for a number of years and are still in employment and there is an employer who wants to retain you or you can get a job with either the same or higher wage conditions, you can be allowed to stay in employment in Denmark. But the paradigm shift, that is, the idea that when you as a refugee no longer have a need for protection, you have to go home and help rebuild your homeland, I think is the right thing to do. And then, in this discussion, I think that, yes, we see some positive trends, there is reason to rejoice about that, but the overall picture that remains is, for example, that the group of women with a non-Western background is all, far too poorly represented on the Danish labour market, and it is not a question of them all not being able. Of course some of them can work. Some time ago I had a conversation with a Somali woman who said to me: There are many more Somali women in Denmark who can work; when I can, the others can too. And it is not a question of ability or not or competence or not. It is a question of culture and it is a question of the oppression of women, and I think we have been far too worried about that. By the way, it doesn't suit us to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102645	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no further brief comments to the Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. And the rapporteur's line is that it is first the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117102715	As the population changes, so does our culture. We adopt standards and values from those who come here. Nowadays, companies accept without any doubt that employees pray during working hours; they accept that employees dress up the banner of Islam's head scarf and manifest their beliefs in the workplace; in day care institutions, in schools you use halal-slaughtered meat, not only for children of Muslims, but for all children; for convenience you no longer use pork; it is easier to use chicken meat, for it can all eat; Christmas is adapted so that everyone can take part in it; away is the Lord's Prayer, the Christian Message, the Angels, the Three Wise Men and the Creep; Christmas becomes a goblin, for that Christmas can all take part in. Our society is changing, our values are changing. And it's actually against that background that this question has been raised. Denmark has become a more raw society since 1983. The riots in connection with the celebration of the New Year are an example of this. Young immigrants went to harm other people, went to make it clear that they are the ones who set the agenda, not the authorities. Car burns take place in depressed residential areas to such an extent that the media no longer bother to write about it. It has become everyday, it has become too common, it is no longer news. We see senseless shootings out of car windows while driving on a road like that, for example. was carried out in Albertslund; traders forced to pay protection money. Respect for the authorities, the authorities of Danish society, is not present with too many. That is why we see that firemen are attacked, that teachers are made a pig and subjected to violence, that everything that resembles a Danish authority is a red cloth in the eye of some of the immigrants, and especially their descendants, who are here in Denmark. That's what you can call everyday jihad. A recent trend is that immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, predominantly from North Africa and Arab countries, come together across national and cultural divides. They come together about the religion of Islam. For example, inhabited Kurds have gone to war for the Islamic State, although the Islamic State has killed Kurds in Syria. Loyalty isn't for Denmark. It's never been to Denmark. Loyalty is for Islam. And the culture, values and standards that apply in the Muslim world still play a huge role for many of the Muslims living in Denmark. Nearly 1 in 5 men of other ethnic origin believes that women themselves are involved if they are subjected to sexual abuse and are challenged. More than one in five men of other ethnic origin does not believe that homosexuality should be accepted. Nearly one out of every five non-western men believes that if you are insulted, you have to resort to defense. These are figures from a report on masculinity perceptions and attitudes towards equality among minority ethnic men from February 2019. It is not Danish to have such values; it simply does not belong in Denmark. And the majority in here aren't gonna do anything about it. There is still a great deal of concern for us to face up to the challenges of Danish values in relation to immigration. The ball always gets kicked on. But it is not the Folketing that has to secure pork in the day-care institutions it is the municipalities. It is not for the Folketing to decide whether a swimming pool should be closed to men for the sake of Muslim women. It is not for the Folketing to decide whether or not to build a And that's at the same time as you close more and more churches. When it comes to the non-standard and insane behaviour of immigrants and their descendants up to New Year's Eve, you will be kissed if you say that it is immigrants and descendants, Arabs and North Africans who are behind the trouble, even though everyone knows that this is the case. We're just still not allowed to say what everyone knows. We haven't gotten any further. We've come a long way, but we haven't gotten far enough. For the new government, it is more about making it look as if you are doing something about the problems than it is about actually doing something about the problems. I also thought it was a fine speech by the Prime Minister, but I just need to know: what are you going to do about it? And it is not only about taking action against Islam warriors, but it is about answering what happens to all the things I have pointed out here. Why on earth do you have to split up in a swimming pool? Why should you be forced to eat halal-slaughter meat? And I know that this lies with the municipalities, but then I just have to appeal if you do not want to go further, to encourage your fellow party members in the municipalities to deal with the problems. Because it's not gonna be done either. We need a peaceful revolution. For too many years the Danes have laid their hands in the pants pockets. Denmark should no longer be an immigration country, Denmark should be an emigration country. People who do not accept the values and standards that have been in force in Denmark for generations must leave our country, and we should not have more to go to Denmark from countries whose populations we know as a group will be unable to integrate. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I shall read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that immigration to Denmark through refugees in particular and family members to refugees after decades of effort has been reduced, but notes that in many respects society is adversely affected by this immigration, which changes our country forever, and therefore notes that there is a need to establish that refugees and their families should return to their home countries when it is possible, and that the legislation and the efforts of the authorities in Denmark must actively support it. The Danish Parliament also notes that since 1983 immigration has meant that there are too many people with Muslim backgrounds living in Denmark who cannot or will not accept Danish values and traditions, but want to retain values that lie miles away from Danish values and that challenge Denmark culturally, religiously, employmentally, economically and securityally. Parliament therefore calls on the government to take initiatives that support the return of indigenous refugees with family as soon as possible. ▪ V 46, (reprinted)
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103400	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is a wish for brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103411	Thank you. A peaceful revolution is one of the things we have worked for in the Enhedslisten for many years. It is probably a slightly different revolution from that of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. My question concerns what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has to say in her speech about these young people who are being expelled from their families because they are wearing challenging clothes and because they have another sexuality. It is also one of the things that really concerns us in the Enhedslisten. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard if she would support a proposal from the Enhedslisten for a crisis centre with more seats for young people who belong to double minorities, i.e. young people who have a different ethnic background from Danish, and who, for example, have a different ethnic background from Denmark. are homosexual or transsexual.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103500	I will take a position on that when the proposal comes. I do not think that is part of this debate at all. But we're gonna be serious about it sometime. We will look at the proposal when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103507	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103510	I think this is part of this debate, because we also need to talk about solutions. That is what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard herself is asking for, namely solutions to these problems. I think that a solution would be to help these young people to refrain from the patriarchal culture of which they are oppressed. There I think we owe these young people a lot of them will have been born and raised in Denmark, and some of them will also be Danish citizens' help if they are oppressed on the basis of their sexuality. I mean that. One final comment is that the Kurds who have left for the Syrian territories are quite convinced that I am going to fight against the Islamic State and not with the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103555	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103558	You can never be quite sure of that, that is, the last. However, in relation to this proposal, the goal of the Danish People's Party is quite clear that parents are being addressed. We don't owe anybody anything. It has been a misunderstanding right from the start in this debate, namely that we should always owe someone something that it is our responsibility; that we should do something. I very much need the debate to be turned upside down so that it is the people who come here who owe us a great deal of actually; quite a great deal. They owe us something for being able to live in a free and democratic country, where we see with great tolerance people who have a different background, for example. a different sexual background, as Mrs Rosa Lund points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103636	The next question is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103642	Thank you. We hear a lot about all the negative things that the Danish People's Party believes immigration has brought with it. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard if the rapporteur has any positive stories she could tell about immigration in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103709	I have repeatedly called for this, and you will be able to go back and see that, families and people with other ethnic backgrounds to get on the ground, report and tell their story, because of course they have too. But you're skeptical about doing that. Not many people do that, because then it may be that something is slipping on the other side. That is also the problem. Of course, there are people who come here and who are completely part of Danish society. We should be pleased about that and we should be satisfied with that. In fact, I regret that I have to list all the negative things, but that is actually what the debate is about. Where have our values gone? What are we going to do about the things that the Prime Minister quite rightly sneaked up? All I needed was to go further and say: here we strike down, and here we really do something about it in relation to all the things that have been listed around gender differences, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103800	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103802	Then I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard what the rapporteur thinks the Danish People's Party has done to make it easier for these immigrant women to come forward with their positive stories. What does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard think the Danish People's Party has done to ensure that we have a society here in Denmark where it becomes easier to go out with these positive stories? How has the Danish People's Party supported that we should have a society where it was easier to feel as part of the community and to be part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103839	We have supported it in that for quite a number of years we have supported, for my part, that it is 30 years from now, that the number means a great deal. I can also hear that other parties have begun to say so. But I can guarantee that when it first appeared, it was attacked. The number was completely irrelevant, the other parties thought. I have always considered it the way that, if you filled water in a bathtub, it couldn't do anything, that you just opened the tap and put the stopper in. That's what's happening, isn't it? That is what has happened for quite a number of years, and then it swims over. I have actually used that image many times, and I think that is very important. Because it's no good that we still have to feel responsible and that we have to go in and help if there's too many we need to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103922	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117103928	Thank you, and thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for one, I think, in many ways good speech and especially for two themes in the speech. Firstly, I am basically very much in agreement that we should not run around and be grateful to people who do what we all take as a matter of course, in other words behave with each other, contribute to society and so on. We're not going down to Strøget and we're going around saying thank you for not committing crime right now, and thank you for being on the labour market, etc. I think that is a good thing to make that clear. Another thing for which I would also like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is to take up this theme, which is about everything that cannot be measured and weighed. Because in this debate it is often problematic if you try to talk about some of the things you cannot look up in the reports from Statistics Denmark, and if you try to talk about some of the things that are about our behaviour and behaviour towards each other in public space, and that is one of the key points of the question that the rapporteur has put to you today. That is why I would like to use my comment both to sign for the speeches which I think are real and important and which have been brave as well, and I would also like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has been taking this fight for many years, even before the Social Democratic Party got on the right track; we have to acknowledge that. Fortunately, some Western mayors and others did what they could then, but not enough. Finally, I would just like to ask the rapporteur: can the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party be expected to work closely together on these areas in the years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104052	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. I have to say, sir. Rasmus Stoklund is a really good politician in many ways, and thanks for the positive speech. But of course we can. So, one has approached the Danish People's Party to such an extent, so in those areas where one approaches the Danish People's Party, of course. But we still need a good bite, and that is one of the things I have listed in my speech here today, where you cannot just stand and say that you think that there are quite awful things happening. What do you do about it? There are, for example: gender breakdown. Do you have to keep doing that? I can see that in Swedish municipalities there has been a start on banning students from wearing a head scarf. It's amazing in Sweden! Have we started coming for Sweden? So it's gonna go wrong, isn't it? I do not buy that with the fact that we should just leave it all to the municipalities, and I assume that it is the same, I have to say, unfortunately, as with the other government, where we asked Wednesday questions time after time and where we were met, that they should take Danish values into account. We heard that, and they have to do it in the municipalities. The only problem is that many of the colleagues from those parties in the municipalities do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104203	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104206	Thank you. On a long stretch, we agree. But does the rapporteur not recognise, if we disregard the discussion about repatriations, because after all there are many people who live here and may have been born and raised here and have citizenship here, etc., and who cannot be repatriated, that part of the challenge and some of what makes this complex with regard to the group where there are challenges for integration in a number of places, is that it is not necessarily everything we can legislate out of, and that it is just as much an expectation vote and something we should expect from people? I think it is some of the things that make this complex, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflection, for example. about what I have used as a concrete example a few times, i.e. when I ride home from work, I experience people who park in the middle of the road during rush hour, I experience a marked over-representation of who is doing it without being able to document it. But how do we get out of this kind of thing? We cannot legislate out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104301	That is absolutely correct, unfortunately, and that is also why it is good that we have this debate and talk about it. Because we'll all probably get a little more courage to do something about it, especially the parties here, if we say that now we're not gonna put up with it anymore. While the rapporteur made the speech, I thought: why do you attack me because, after New Year's Eve, after the riots and the days ahead, I said that they were Arab boys? It was sir. Rasmus Stoklund has not done so, but it is being attacked, and I am still being called racist by certain radical members and Enhedslisten etc. Well, as long as we're there, it's hard, because it's not fair. But I'm very fond of Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund's speech and understanding, by the way, and I think it is actually sincere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104345	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104359	Thank you. I have been looking forward to today's question debate, which I believe addresses one of the greatest challenges facing society. It is a premise for the question debate that we are being pressured to change our way of life as a result of immigration. You can find examples of that to be true, but that is not the way it should be. Integration does not mean that Denmark has to adapt to travellers. This means that visitors must follow the standards that most of us take for granted. As a newcomer in a country, you need to learn the custom. This is what we in this House do when we go out into the world, and we can reasonably expect of people who come here; it is something they have chosen for themselves. Fortunately, most immigrants who have come to Denmark feel the same way as we who are here today. They have chosen Denmark for, because we are a free country, a country where you can have a life with opportunities and a secure future for your children: freedom. And if we still have the debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, it is an expression of the fact that unfortunately there is an excessive minority who have physically found their way to Denmark, but mentally still have their roots in other cultural circles and in other countries, and that leads to clashes. This makes today's debate on the value policy of the government and parliament relevant, because unfortunately there are too many places where, instead of watching the TV newspaper, you have a dish pointing towards the Great Middle East. Too many people believe that interpretation is a matter of course, rather than taking responsibility and learning the language. There are too many who let their boy children take care of themselves at times when they should do their homework or lie in bed; for many who believe that women should not contribute in the labour market; for many who do not respect the law and hence the community rules and their fellow citizens, and there are too many who believe that they should have an attitude as to the sexuality of other people. There are too many troops to bury a terrorist who has killed innocent people at the synagogue and the powder keg. There are too many people who think that they should interfere in how their female relatives live their lives, and unfortunately I could go on like this. But when we discuss the issues where the challenges are greatest, it quickly becomes polarised. Some from the left will say: Now you are dividing and generalizing; you are talking about us and them. And with that accusation, they overlook who is also suffering from the failure of integration in many places. After all, integration problems are not only a conflict between ethnic Danes and non-western immigrants. It is just as much a conflict in which both villains, but also victims, have non-western roots, for example. when legal and good citizens with a non-Western background need to be concerned about whether a gang is trying to recruit their son for crime when a young person wants to jump out as a homosexual or when small girls and adult women are subjected to social control in their local environment. On the other hand, some on the right will forget the problems that we, who are ethnically Danish, do not experience on our own bodies. When Bekim or Mohammed is seeking an apprenticeship and is repeatedly rejected, and when they are rejected in the door of the discotheque, we are offending young people from us who, at a vulnerable time in their lives, had done everything we others do and everything we expect of ourselves and each other, and we are giving them some unfair and unreasonable defeats at a vulnerable age. That is why we need to find the golden middle way, and that is why today's debate is important, because it is poison for our social model when the cohesion force is put under pressure. And it does if people find that too large a minority is tearing down what others are building up. Most with non-western backgrounds Denmark will be well, but a community is fragile. And if people lose confidence that the community, the welfare state, is managed fairly, then it starts to disintegrate. If people no longer feel that they have something in common with each other because they have been moving socially and culturally in diametrically opposite directions too long, then the consequence will be a farewell to our social model. Instead, we will have a system where you buy yourself for education and welfare services, where you insure yourself, live in restricted areas with guards and fences, and inequality will be great. We want a social model where we live together, regardless of who we are and where we have our roots in the world, where we can talk to each other at the parents' meeting, at the football club or in the laundry room and recognize the existence and everyday life that the others tell us about. On the other hand, we can only be sure of the future if people who come here support some basic values and have a basic understanding of what we are for a country. And we must recognise that one does not become a supporter of secularism, equality and Protestant work ethics because one crosses the border with Denmark. That is why we are pursuing a restrictive immigration policy in which non-western immigration must be restricted and we are not compromising on fundamental values and standards. I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Parliament wants a consistent and strict immigration policy to continue ensuring coherence in Denmark. The Danish Parliament notes that the prerequisite for successful integration is that foreigners coming to Denmark support fundamental values of freedom, acquire the Danish language and contribute to society by training and participating in the labour market. The Danish Parliament notes that the vast majority of immigrants and descendants have embraced Denmark and contribute positively to society. The aim of the Folketing is to combat parallel societies where there is an over-representation of crime, where social control restricts freedom and where citizens are harassed because of their religion, sexuality or political attitudes. • V 47). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104918	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Now there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117104932	Thank you, President. And thank the rapporteur for, once again, a fine speech. That is something that must be given to the Social Democratic Party: they have everything under control with the speakers. The problem is that of influencing reality as well. I'm sitting here with what is called an understanding paper... Just direction for Denmark... which the Social Democratic Party has entered into with the Socialist majority in the Danish Parliament. And there are not many proposals, in concrete terms, on how to combat Islam here. And that is why I would perhaps also like to be inspired by what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard mentioned from the platform: how does the Social Democratic Party view some of the actions that we see working elsewhere? For example: Randers Municipality has ensured that it is always possible to choose anything other than halal-slaughtered meat. In Sweden, you can see that you are now striking a blow for the freedom of girls and banning the scarf. Is it some things, like Mr. Rasmus Stoklund could imagine that the government and social democracy could promote, also in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105031	Thank you for the questions and for the rose. But if there is such a suggestion in it that it is not sincere and that it is for strategic reasons that the Social Democratic Party has those views, I would, after all, acknowledge the role of the Danish People's Party in this debate throughout the 1990s and the 00s, remind you that the Social Democratic Party has been a broad party for many years, and that, after all, in the 1980s, there were Western mayors who made a great deal of reference to some of these problems, and that for many years too we have been arguing that there are some challenges we have to address. But I fully acknowledge the efforts of the Danish People's Party, and I would also like to say that when you try to draw a picture of the fact that it is just rhetoric and that the policy does not follow, I think you forget that in relation to some of the most important things, that is, the rules for family reunification, the rules for residence permits, the rules for obtaining citizenship, etc. I mean, it's all right. This government is, after all, fully pursuing the policy pursued under the former Blue Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105131	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105134	That's not true. I mean, among other things... refugees who are at work are no longer being sent home, as they did earlier. This has, of course, been adopted by a majority in Parliament. But that's not what I do here. Well, that's sir. Rasmus Stoklund and the Prime Minister and the government must show whether it is only rhetoric or whether it is politics. And in two such very specific areas where Islam as a way of life bumps into everything our world stands for freedom, secularity, free thinking, etc. It's about the same distance. Can it be imagined that it will also seep into the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105219	In other words, during the last period of government, it was adopted, among other things. A ban on cover, and that is something of the same as that, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned this, and the Social Democratic Party also supported it. And to answer that, too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is talking about residence permits: that is, it is a very small group that will be able to temporarily extend the residence permit if they have been working for two years. At the same time, the labour force is very much in demand, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is also aware that, unfortunately, it is, in reality, sadly going to be a very small number of people who will be covered by this because too few people are contributing to the labour market. And that is actually what is also one of the tragic things about this. However, with regard to what new initiatives need to be taken, I am, in fact, open to discussing a wide range of issues. I think there may be a lot of things that are relevant, and I would also just like to remind you that in recent months it has been a lot about foreign fighters. There the government has done a lot of things last night.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105318	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105325	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the enormous skill of the Socialists. The Social Democratic Party has with great skill taken over very large parts of the Danish People's Party's immigration policy, and thank you for that, because then we may be able to save Denmark together. But there is just one crucial thing that you must also get hold of, and that is the religious understanding, so the rapporteur did not mention Islam, the word was just not used at all and that is what this is all about. The Prime Minister mentioned this a little silly statement that God has a duty to give way. It is, of course, an allusion to Luther's understanding of Christianity that there is a difference between spiritual and secular, but it is precisely Christianity that makes that difference so that we cannot make religious laws. This means that God says that the Bible is subject to the law. Funny enough, Allah doesn't say that. There is exactly the opposite, and there it is, then, that Allah says that equality has a duty to give way, that pork has a duty to give way, that democracy and freedom, and all the things we value, have a duty to give way. And as long as you don't understand it, you can't get to the bottom of this debate on values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105440	Mrs Krarup has a central point here, because this is where something sometimes goes wrong when religion clashes with a secular society, and that is why it is possible to paraphrase God's sentence, change it and say: Allah has a duty to give way. Well, it's not a matter of Allah not giving way. Of course Allah has. We live in a democracy where legislation is adopted here, and that is what counts. If I do not mention Islam in my speech anyway and do not spend so much energy talking about this as a war against Islam, this is because for me this is not about a war between religions. I mean, I have no problem with the fact that there is, and I do not know what the right expression is, but cultural Muslims, i.e. people who feel like Muslims, if they are otherwise good citizens. Fortunately, there are lots of Muslims in Denmark who are. I have no need to declare war on their religion. I need to declare war on those who are not democrats and those who cannot figure out how to combine these two things. That is where I think we have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105546	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105549	But the problem is, if you do not understand that people are not democrats because they subscribe to another ideology. That is the problem, that is, there is another religion, and that is what one must dare to say openly. It would also be crazy to invite a large number of Communists and then say: Now you must go actively and joyfully into a capitalist society. I don't think they're gonna do that. They're gonna try to turn it into a communist society. That is why I say this is not a war. It is a recognition that there are some huge differences, and that recognition came to the Danish People's Party when it was established. That is why the Danish People's Party exists, and that is the recognition that the other parties have to make in order for us to put an end to this misfortune in slow development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105632	It is true that one of the reasons why there is tension is that Islam is a religion of law, and therefore there are some Muslims who follow Islam more blindly than we are used to people doing with Christianity in Denmark, and we have a challenge with that group. It is revealed in many different laps, in addition to what we each experience and can read about, in television broadcasts such as the documentary series "Mosques behind the veil." So there you get the impression that someone cannot find out that they live in a democratic, secular society while they are religious. However, the reason why I do not spend so much energy on declaring a war against Islam, as Mrs Marie Krarup is appealing to, is that I still believe that there are cultural Muslims in Denmark who can find a way to distinguish between these things, and they are the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105720	The next question is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105729	Thank you for that, President. I will follow up on what has been said so far. The Social Democrats said that they do not give up the basic Danish values. It was said from the platform here. Nevertheless, the Social Democratic Party accepts that special consideration is being taken in schools where Danish traditions are not chosen for the sake of immigrants. The same is true in kindergarten. In workplaces and shops, commonly slaughtered meat is replaced by halal-slaughtered meat, and then the Danes must buy halal-slaughtered meat, because it must be the case that immigrants can also eat meat. The rapporteur also says that it is a problem that Islam is a religion of law, yet it must be taken into account. Wasn't it right that the Social Democratic Party then says: If you want a religion of law that doesn't belong in Denmark, you shouldn't be in Denmark at all, and if you want to be in Denmark, you must live up to the fundamental values, and then it can't help that you demand that the Danish values and traditions be changed, and you must conform to the values and traditions that we have, otherwise you don't belong in Denmark? Isn't that the way we should go? But instead, the Social Democrats open up and say: we just accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105847	In this Chamber, speaking time is respected, and that is why the President will rise when speaking time is exceeded. That is the rapporteur's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105858	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted is onto something central here. I wrote a book myself a few years ago, using one of these examples. I can't remember if it was in Kokkedal, but in a housing association you almost experienced a coup that made you do away with everything you had had from the traditions of Christmas tree parties, Christmas decorations and all such things, and it was abolished. It was a group of Muslims who were behind it. It bears witness to me to the fact that you have not understood what kind of country you have come to. Fortunately, it is my clear feeling that it is a minority that behaves that way. It is my clear feeling that the vast majority of those who subscribe to Islam in Denmark are supporters of Christmas. I've had lots of neighbors who celebrated Christmas, even though they were Muslims, and let their children attend Christmas parties and everything else. But it is clear that the minority, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted talks about that, and I fully agree with Mr Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted: Why don't you go to one of the countries in the Great Middle East where you live, which you obviously want to live? I totally agree!
ParlaMint-DK_20200117105958	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110000	Well, it's nice that sir. Rasmus Stoklund agrees with me that they do not really belong in Denmark. I know of immigrants who want imams where the pepper grows and do not think they should interfere in their way of life. But then we have to shut them off and tell them not to go into Denmark. If they cannot conform to the Danish values, we must put an end to it and then say: No, thank you, you will not enter Denmark. We have values that must be respected, and that is the most important of all. So stay away from Denmark, go to a country where you can live by the religion of law, it is not you that we are going to Denmark. That must be what this is about and which the Social Democratic Party, as a governing party, must be at the forefront of putting an end to. And then the Danish People's Party will probably support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110042	Fortunately, we agree on this, in other words, that a restrictive foreign policy must be pursued on the possibilities of coming to Denmark. That is also why the rules on residence permits, family reunification, citizenship and so on. are completely the same as they were before the parliamentary elections Constitutional Day last year. So we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110105	The next question is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110109	Thank you. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur what you really are thinking now when the radical rapporteur asks questions to the Prime Minister about whether the paradigm shift is not over and the Prime Minister says: no, it is not. It is one of the government's supporting parties, and both cannot be right. I mean, is the paradigm shift the repatriation policy, which I prefer to call it an over chapter, or what? It is, of course, so far, because if you have worked for a few years, you can stay even if you have been rejected in the past I cannot understand that. Now the Radicals are not in government, but they are after all a support party, and what I find exciting is that there are two completely contradictory views. Both can't be right. Are we going to contradict the radical rapporteur harshly and consistently, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110201	It is, of course, the case here in the Folketing that a little depending on what cases we are talking about, there are among the mandates approx. 70-80 per cent. with the same conviction as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and myself, that is to say that a strict foreign policy must be pursued in Denmark. That is why there is, after all, a broad majority in favour of maintaining the paradigm shift that we had together during the previous period of government. What is then, what is to be said, adjusted, is, in principle, an occupational scheme; a little like some of the other occupational schemes we have, where we can meet some criteria, and then you can obtain a residence permit on the basis of your profession. And what, after all, is depressing in that context is that very few people will be able to avail themselves of this system. At least there is much evidence of this, for this has been the case so far, when there was something similar a few years ago. There are very, very few people who meet the demand for two years' ordinary employment with the same employer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110301	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110302	Well, that's not what I asked. I asked what was right; so what is right: is the repatriation policy still there, or is it not there? Radicals say it's not there. The Social Democratic Party is trying to say that it is still away with some adjustments that are being tried to give the impression of being an enterprise policy. It's almost too funny if it wasn't so tragic. It's foreign policy we're talking about here. So I just have to ask again, because both can't be right: what's right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110331	The paradigm shift stands by force to answer it quite specifically. And I think that the return policy is an excellent word to call it, because that is what lies very much in it. So you have to expect that when you come to Denmark for temporary protection while there is strife in your home country, it is just temporary protection that you get and that the starting point is that you then have to go back to your home country. And this is, of course, linked to some of the things we discussed in the past when it comes to the fact that if integration is to succeed, we cannot make the problem bigger year by year so that it remains valid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110404	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110406	Thank you. I am just always so happy when a Socialist confirms that we live in a democracy, because when we discuss public law or the rule of law, we sometimes have a different view. However, I am aware of this in another debate. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund on social control. I completely share Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's concern for the young people who are under social control, and so I would like to ask: what is the concrete plan of social democracy for how we can stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110446	Now, after all, this is a debate on overall values, and that is why I am not very much in favour of going into such a question of concrete policy proposals right here and now. But social control I am quite convinced that we broadly agree in the Folketing is a problem. We are all familiar with examples of women, and especially girls, who are being held down by their local environment, by relatives who believe that they have to decide about their future opportunities, and therefore there can be both legislation, but also this, which we have also mentioned earlier today, that we are talking openly about things that cannot always be legislated about, but which are also about what behavior and behaviour we expect of people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110539	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110541	I understand that this overall debate is about values, but if we cannot discuss solutions in this Chamber in such a debate, I find it rather difficult to see where else we can discuss it. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund about something very concrete, namely: Will the Social Democratic Party be involved in it, for example. In connection with the next Finance Act, do we set aside money to create more shelters for young people who belong to a double minority, that is to say young people who are both ethnically different from Danish and possibly homosexual or transsexual?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110618	I would like to start by saying that I have sympathy for the ideas. There should be no doubt about that, but I think it might be a little premature, especially in view of the fact that the rapporteur is also aware that some studies are under way in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration right now on how some of the initiatives that have so far been taken to prevent social control are progressing. There I think it would be sensible to wait for some of the conclusions to be drawn and then conclude on that basis. And then I think that this is a very obvious theme that we can tackle together at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110650	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110652	Thank you for the floor. These are just new times in Danish politics when there is such a large and broad majority that at least in what they say they say they have understood a very large part of the problem we are facing. Thank you, that's a good step on the way. And I mean it really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Having said that, I probably belong to one of those who, to say the least, think that the paradigm shift is decades of bluff. It has always been the case that when you are a refugee in a country, you have to go back when there is no more war or strife in the country you come from. I am aware of the fact that more people have gone out than have come here. On the contrary, although the number of asylum seekers is quite low, and there are several reasons for this, the number of inhabited Muslims is still increasing, and this has increased significantly in recent decades. So when we talk paradigm shifts, a paradigm shift should be a shift in which it is said that the number of years per year is getting smaller and not bigger. So, without having to go into the concrete solutions, I have to ask whether we can expect the government and the Social Democratic Party to initiate initiatives during this parliamentary term so that the number of indigenous Muslims falls and does not increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110818	I think the rapporteur is at the heart of something. It can be seen that the government in power is less concerned with the number of asylum seekers who come here, but is more concerned with the situation in the flow of refugees, i.e. the crises in the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere. That is really what is most governing. It could of course be seen that during the previous government in 2015, a very large number came, but it was not the fault of the previous government, but because there was a crisis in Syria. It merely updates the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party a few years ago on a new asylum system. Because we have to put an end to the model we have at the moment, where there is a total imbalance, because it is mainly young men with relatively resourceful family backgrounds who are able to come here, while the very poor are allowed to care for themselves in refugee camps without access to sanitation, guards, medicine, education, etc. etc. That's why you have to create a new system to make these things work in a less arbitrary way than they are now, no matter who has the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110926	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110927	I am very pleased that the rapporteur is saying this, because with the asylum system that we now have, it is just a question of a new flow of refugees that is being set in motion and then we are in the same situation as we did in 2015. That leads me to my next question: is it reasonable, or would the rapporteur think, that it would be fair to say that social democracy has also failed like so many other governments in this area, if a new asylum system has not been introduced before the end of this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117110959	I think it might be a little much to put on this government's shoulders. One is dependent on the fact that there are some people with whom we can cooperate, and that is where I think Parliament should have a common interest in helping to create this new asylum system, because, as you know, it is a minority government that is not able to implement a new asylum system alone. Nor can we achieve it without cooperation with other countries, and there you could imagine there were some of the other parties in the Danish Parliament who have sister parties in other European countries who might be helpful in trying to address some of the problems and inspire to read justice and realism, our proposals, which I know also exist in translated versions, and then perhaps by common help we could take this process forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111042	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111045	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask the rapporteur something very specific about the debate we have. You can take the statistics, and then you can flex them according to the political conviction you have. But if you look specifically at our statistics on those who are sentenced in Denmark, you can see that in the closed prisons foreigners or descendants of foreigners are over 45%. of all those who have received a sentence of imprisonment in a closed prison. If you take an open prison, they make up approx. 20% less. All other things being equal, it is also possible to measure that those who have Danish origins commit crime, but that on average they commit less perilous and serious crime. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the government going to do, and what are the Socialists going to do to ensure that we get fewer of these detention sentences where people get conditional expulsion instead of getting what they should have, namely expulsion? It is something that has provoked the Danish People's Party for a very many years that is largely based on conditional expulsion. Why would you do that? The rapporteur's party now has the opportunity to move something, not just in words, but in concrete action. What will the government and what will the Social Democrats do to ensure that we have fewer foreigners in Danish prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111213	There have been examples that people have not been able to return to their home countries, even EU countries, even though they have committed crime in Denmark and have been sentenced to expulsion. You know, you get to your head and you wonder. I'm gonna be just as harmless as Mr. Simpson. Hans Kristian Skibby. I think that one of the things that at least gives me some optimism is that I know that the Attorney General has recently dealt with a matter. In the light of a fairly serious crime, there was already a conditional expulsion, but there was no expulsion when new serious crimes were committed, which is inconceivable to me, because a conditional expulsion would be worth nothing. Then there's something that doesn't add up. There you went in and wondered about it. This can be seen from an answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Danish Parliament. That is why I am betting that the prosecution will be better able to ensure that more people are expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111318	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111319	I am glad that the Socialists are wondering. Perhaps a lot of people do. There may also be some who wonder that you only wonder and do nothing about it. Now we have a government where there is only one party sitting in all the ministerial posts. You have the opportunity, even the bourgeois here in the Folketing would like to support your legal policy. I don't care about all those left-wing parties, we don't want them in this case. You have every opportunity to do something, and all the rapporteur can say is that one wonders. The rest of us have been doing this since 1983. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111356	In formal terms, the Attorney General is subject to the executive, the government, so in this way there is action behind the words, so it is not only wondering. I just said that I welcome the answer that came from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, namely that the Attorney General does not seem to think that things are as they should be, that one even wondered how things had happened. I would like to try to find that answer, and then I shall make sure to pass it on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, and then Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby sees the matter and sees that something is actually happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111431	The next question is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111434	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech. I would like to return to fair and realistic reading, which I have read with great interest. The whole focus of social democracy's policy on foreigners is to create a reception centre outside Europe. However, in a recent consultation, we were able to see that no one in Europe has been found who agrees with the Social Democrats that it is possible to do so within the framework of the European Union. Nor has a country outside Europe been found interested in having such a reception centre. And if that is the whole focus of this asylum policy and this asylum system, which the Social Democratic Party believes should be turned upside down, what will be done to live up to the promise made to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111523	The questioner and I both took part in that consultation and I probably took the conclusions with me in a slightly different way, because I did not hear the Minister say that there were only closed doors when he talked to colleagues around Europe. But I also think there is another premise that is wrong here, because there is no one who says that the ideas of fair and realistic can only be realised if you can make a large, comprehensive EU agreement where all countries have come together. One could imagine a model in which some countries came together bilaterally and started it. And already there I would say that we had come a long way, because then we send a signal to people that if you apply for asylum in Denmark, you should expect that it is not for permanent stay in Denmark, but for your application to be processed in a reception centre and that you will also stay in a reception centre in a country with which you could then make an agreement. However, a model for such things to be possible could be the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on how to deal with the flow of refugees from Syria. And I certainly did not hear that there were perfectly clearly closed doors, in the same way as the questioner did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111633	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111635	Thank you for your answer. I would now say that when the EU Commissioner for Refugees says that the Socialist proposal is completely unrealistic, then some obstacles have probably been encountered. But I'd like to ask another question about this reception center. Is it imagined in the Social Democratic Party that fewer or more people will try to come to Denmark if you make a reception centre close to the countries where the refugees come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111703	First of all, I would like to challenge once again the premise that this must necessarily be an EU project, because I think it can be very difficult to unite a single European Union around this project. And I don't think it should run aground alone if that can't be done. It would, of course, be optimal if everyone agreed to adopt fair and realistic, but the world is probably not that good. And if we can then do something bilateral with some and I certainly wouldn't mean that more would come to Denmark, on the contrary, because then one would recognize that seeking asylum in this reception centre would also mean that you would have temporary protection in a country that would then have made an agreement with somewhere and it's unclear where it should be, but somewhere in the Middle East and that wouldn't be an entrance ticket to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111752	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111754	Thank you. When I hear the rapporteur for the Socialists here today, I hear a rapporteur who says something that we must believe in, namely that the policy pursued in the field of foreigners and in the area of value policy is the same as has always been done. But it is just the case that there must be consistency between what is then said in this Chamber and what is done. This is a good old principle in many of life's affairs, including politics, and when I look at the financial law that the government has just negotiated before Christmas, what is being done there is to relax some central issues in the area of foreign policy. You open up quota refugees, which means that Denmark will probably have to receive up to 500 additional refugees in that account by 2020. The benefits are relaxed. So, the previous government and the Danish People's Party said that the benefits must be at a low level, so that Denmark is not attractive. Now benefits are being increased, mainly to non-western immigrants who are unemployed and have children in Denmark. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a problem? There is simply no agreement between what you say and what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117111912	No, I have to admit that I cannot quite see that, and if I am to take a concrete example, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and I had an excellent debate in P1 yesterday, where we, for example, had an excellent debate. discussed the conditions at Ellebæk, the exit centre, where there are many who have been busy telling over the last 14 days about how horrible and horrible it is, on the basis of a subservient report which has been criticized to the brink by all sorts of independent experts from universities and where the government stands firm. The government hasn't wobbled there. It has been said: this is what we are aiming for; we think it is what it should be. Many of us have visited the place, and we have seen how it works very well and how responsible and decent employees there are out there, which is what has been perhaps most unfair in the last 14 days, that is that their friends and family have had to hear in the media that they are practically involved in torture, on the basis of a totally subservient report, such as those who have written it, so that they will not even be able to measure up to afterwards. It's crazy, and I think that's just a concrete example of the government sticking to this. We're not gonna change a comma based on what was in this subtle report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112021	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112022	Well, I think it is excellent that the Danish People's Party and the government agree on Ellebæk. That's just not what I asked. I asked that over here we have what the Socialists say to us all, all Danes, namely that everything is unchanged and that nothing is happening, and that we then have the way in which things are done, that is, the way in which things are done. You open up higher services and thus more non-western immigrants to Denmark, you open up quota refugees, and you open up to Syrians, whom the Prime Minister says we do not want, but who are going into Copenhagen Airport at the moment. Does the rapporteur not see that something is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112105	I'm sorry that time is so limited here, because, no, I have to admit that I really can't. In fact, I think that this long-winded government has done exactly the opposite of what Mr. Peter Skaarup says here, because we have actually tightened up in a number of areas. Only yesterday some initiatives came forward. Before Christmas, in the autumn, we jointly adopted urgent legislation enabling people with dual citizenship to be deprived of citizenship so that they cannot return to Denmark. I mean, we've made some pretty significant decisions, among other things. in the field of citizenship, in order to avoid the return of Syrian warriors. These are quite marked tightenings, and in the case of rules on family reunification, residence permits and citizenship, nothing has changed. That's why I don't think this is pure rhetoric. I do not accept the premise that this should be correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112152	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line is from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112214	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the tradition of faith, I would say to take the initiative for a very important question debate on Danish values. I am glad that I will again have the opportunity to be part of this debate in the Assembly. This is an important issue that we are going to debate today. One might think that it was about the imprints of Grundtvigianism on our country, but, like so many other political debates in our time, the debate is about something other than what one might at first sight see. It is essentially a debate about what immigration does to a country. Denmark has always been an open society. It's also difficult other, when you're a small nation, big in many ways, but small in number and size. We therefore have an experience of immigration as long as the nation is old. Those experiences have been mostly good as they are so many other places. People from all over the world and especially the countries around us have come here and have gradually embraced Denmark and Danish values. It's made us richer, and it's made us bigger. Immigration is anything else equal easier when those who come to Denmark end up merging with the rest of the population regardless of their ethnicity, belief or gender. However, this debate has changed since we have seen immigration from non-western countries. When a lot of people come to a country, it's always a challenge. When many people come to a country with a distinct culture, the challenge is the greater. When many people with Muslim background come to a country with roots in Christianity, the question of what immigration does to a country becomes quite different. Therefore, it is also relevant to talk about the value-policy challenges arising from immigration to Denmark. Freedom, community, equality, equality, democracy and freedom are just some of the values on which we have based Denmark. We have to protect them. When it comes to immigration, integration is very much about those who are immigrants not only learning to speak the Danish language and taking an education and getting a job etc. No, it is very much about the fact that those who come here are also valued as equivalent to Danish society. In Denmark we live by a set of values where everyone has equal opportunities regardless of background, sexuality, gender, nationality, or how much money you have in your bank account. In Denmark there is a very special tradition of freedom that has existed since Grundtvig, Christen Kold and Søren Kierkegaard. Denmark consists of freedom in thought and speech, freedom to be who you choose to be and freedom to choose the path you want. Freeness and freedom are inclusiveness and tolerance. Each of us has an extensive freedom and freedom to live our lives in different ways in a secure community, a community where we seize each other in difficult times, but also where we make demands on each other with the expectation of support and contribution to the community, and a community that is only harmonious as long as we have a deep trust in each other. We have seen that confidence gradually erode since 1983. We live at a time when many experience that the Danish values are being influenced from many sides as a consequence of the fact that a large number of people with a different background and culture have come to Denmark. In the Left, we are very concerned to take care of the Danish values. We believe that those who come here must first and foremost adapt to the standards and values that Denmark is built on and that characterise our society. They must choose to become part of that community. Otherwise, they're in the wrong place. In Denmark one must believe, think and express oneself as one wishes. You have to respect that. So do the vast majority of people, and of course I am delighted. There are also those who do not respect Danish values. That is a pity, because these freedoms are fundamental to a free and democratic society. If these are not accepted, one simply cannot be a part of our community, and then one has nothing to do in Denmark. In the Left, we are in favour of a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, in which we dare to make demands on those who come here. When you are to be part of the Danish community and live in our society, it gives some rights, but it also gives some duties: in particular the duty to embrace the society you have come to. That's not too much to expect, so we expect that. You should not look very far north to find a society where you look radically differently at what immigration is. In Sweden, a development has been chosen which means that in less than many years' time, one in three Swedes will be from the Middle East, and when that happens Sweden will always be a very different country than it is today. We in the Left should never do that in Denmark. With these words, on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I shall read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that most foreigners who have come to Denmark contribute to Danish society, but that immigration from particularly non-western countries has challenged integration, cohesion and created parallel societies. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has raised social benefits for unemployed foreigners, which will have a negative effect on both integration and influx to Denmark. The Danish Parliament notes that the starting point for successful integration in Denmark is that foreigners coming to Denmark accept Danish values of freedom, learn Danish and contribute to the community by working and training. The aim of the Folketing is to combat social control of women in particular and to ensure that no one is harassed on the basis of their beliefs, sexuality or gender. The Danish Parliament wants a consistent and strict immigration policy to continue to ensure coherence in Denmark. • V 48).
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112818	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112829	Thank you, President, and thank you, not least, to the rapporteur. Now the Social Democracy was praised in the past for the journey the party has been on, and the praise can also be given to the Left. It is true that there is a proud reason for the cold and J.C. Christensen and all those mentioned by the rapporteur himself. I would therefore like the rapporteur, who is on the very ground of freedom on which the rapporteur stands, to reflect a little on the immigration we have had in this country not only for the last 30 years, but should we say the last 400 years, that is, since the first Jews came to Denmark under Christian IV. Can the rapporteur think of any single group which, in the way that Muslims have allowed themselves over the last generation, has allowed themselves to impose conditions on the society that has openly welcomed them? As I remember immigration since the Reformation, that is how I remember it best, I remember that people who have come to Denmark have come in gratitude and in humility and in love for the people who have accepted them. But when we talk about Muslim immigration not all, of course, because there are plenty of good examples, but yet we see a group that suddenly demands that mosques be built with minarets, and there must be special arrangements for prayer rooms, and what do I know, and there must be special food, etc., that is, the Danish society must be on their terms. Can the rapporteur find just one example of a non-Muslim group that has done something similar?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117112954	Thank you for the question. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself mentions a group which has managed to be very distinct in all the years it has been in Denmark, namely the Jews in Denmark, but without it ever causing problems for the surrounding society. You have retained a very, very strong Jewish identity... you don't need to know many Jews to know that is the case... but it's not something that has ever resulted in making special demands on the surrounding community. So I do not know any group that has had so many desires to be faithful to their origins, as the Jews in Denmark, but at the same time have done so with such deep respect for Danish society. I wish that many more people with a particularly Muslim background would learn from the Jewish journey, because you can be a Muslim in Denmark and embrace Denmark at the same time, but more should do so based on the Jewish experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113059	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113101	We are very much in agreement on this: that there is one, I think, that the rapporteur used the term distinctly different from the immigration we have experienced from the Muslim world in relation to what we have had experience with. That is why I would like to ask how the rapporteur, when he has come to this realization, is sticking to the conventions which insist that people from even very different backgrounds should be treated equally. What is the logic of letting conventions tyrannize this country and this Parliament, so we have to treat Jews, Buddhists and Chinese in the same way as Muslims, when we can now just see that it is precisely immigration from Muslim countries that has created all the problems? Would it not be liberating and in agreement with the spirit and tradition of freedom which the Left has just said: then we will separate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113149	Now, of course, we were talking about Jews before, and surely there is hardly a group that has been more tried to make stateless by nations and has been affected by the desire to push them around between countries than they have. And it is the group that, through the history of Europe, has suffered the most wreath of fate at all. Having conventions that protect minorities and small nations is always good in my optics. However, it is of course important that the conventions that we are part of are some that we go to the limit of when it comes to achieving control over immigration to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113227	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113235	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to sign the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur mentioned, among other things, that it was important that we always remember what immigration does to a country and to a nation, and we agree with that. However, I am thinking a little of how this has happened over the last four years, when the rapporteur's own party has had the honour and pleasure of sitting in government and also had the Prime Minister's post, and where the Danish People's Party has repeatedly stood down here in the Chamber and asked about the major problem of halal taxes in Denmark and towards consumers and, above all, the products that consumers use in Denmark. The government to which the rapporteur's own party belonged did not want to make a fuss about the halal taxes that are ■ whether it is halal or haram. There is halal tax on infant formula, toothpaste, chocolate, cosmetics, medicines, even air travel there are halal charges. Why would the rapporteur's party not do anything about such important elements in relation to Danish values when it was possible to do so in a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113345	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113346	In the Left we have no desire to intervene in the free market forces, and if anyone wants to buy halal products, of course it is their free right to do so. It has always puzzled me that there has not been a market for products that market themselves by not being halal products, but it may well come someday. I would choose such a product at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113410	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113412	But that is not the truth, and here I have to quote the rapporteur: the government did not want openness on how to apply these halal taxes to Danish consumers too. After all, this was something that the Minister of Justice repeatedly thwarted when we asked questions in this Chamber about it. We know that halal taxes are pouring Muslim World League, and Islamic Cultural Association and Islamic Cultural Centre are also getting revenue from it. Why do we not want to inform the Folketing, the citizens, the consumers of what is really going on? It's a break with the Danish values, but still the Left just chooses to say nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113452	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113453	I am not sure that I fully understand the question, but if we are asked whether we in the Left want to ban the presence of halal products, I would say that we have no wish for that. If anyone wants to buy something like that I'm not one of them... it's up to them to go shopping. But I think it would be good if there were a clear alternative that could be chosen instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113518	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113521	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, first of all. The proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur has put forward, is a little concerned with this issue of benefits, despite the fact that they are temporary and this temporary child benefit, which has been so much talked about, also benefits many Danes. But I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he will not sit up in the helicopter and try to give his reflections on what he thinks is going on today and actually went on during the last period of government, possibly on the basis of a couple of analyses from the DA that came in December, such as: showed that in 2018, around 2,000 non-western immigrants were on cash benefits who have not met with the municipality for more than six months. In other words, one out of every seven non-western recipients of cash benefits will receive benefits without even showing up. Non-Western immigrants on cash benefits are on average in activation 12%. of the time they receive benefits during the week is less than 5 hours. In other words, will the rapporteur not try to reflect on this? Isn't it time to end this? Or what does the rapporteur really think it is necessary to do? How are we going to deal with this dysfunctional employment system for non-Western cash aid recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113631	I'd like to address it first about the temporary benefits. For us in the Left, it is not a solution that something is temporary, because if you do something temporarily wrong, it is still wrong. You can't cover yourself by saying: Well I just saw my children temporarily; it's only temporary that I cheat in taxes; or it's temporary that I drive too fast. It's either something you do or you don't. So I hope that we will stop giving these too high benefits, even if they are called temporary, at some point, so that we can stop the increased influx which we know they will lead to. When it comes to people entering the employment system, in my optics we are experiencing a very violent municipal failure out there, where we have given the municipalities a number of tools to ensure that you get into employment, because it is the most important community that you are part of when you are in Denmark, namely the working community. And we have some tools to get people into employment that are not being used out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113735	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113737	I would like to challenge the rapporteur's pictorial selection in the examples given by the rapporteur. These are examples of things that are directly illegal, and that is after all not to grant a subsidy to children of about 600 kroner. a month for a temporary period until we can hopefully create a new system. However, what I would still like to appeal to the rapporteur to reflect on is: could the rapporteur then imagine helping to change this system so that we get to a place where non-Western cash aid recipients work for their cash benefits 37 hours a week, optimally in line with the ideas that have been put forward by the government? I guess that's where we're going. The rapporteur would like to acknowledge that the statistics I have just read from the Danish Employers' Association show that there has also been something quite wrong under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113823	When it comes to the temporary, I now looked more at whether it was harmful or not, or whether it was illegal or not. That's why I used that picture. But yes, that is something on which we would very much like to enter into dialogue with the Social Democratic Party. It is extremely important that you support yourself during the period you are in Denmark. And if we can in any way make sure that more people do that, the left door will always be open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113846	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113849	Thank you for the floor. Following on from Mr. I have to say that Hans Kristian Skibby's question on halal foods gives me the feeling that when some of these problems still prevail, despite the fact that the extent of the problems is understood, it is perhaps also about either lack of communication or ignorance. When we're talking about halal certification, it's like Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby says that when we pay for halal-certified goods, we contribute to the spread of Islam worldwide through the Muslim World League. We do so both as private consumers, but we do so in the public sector too, and that is why it is quite appropriate to ask the Left: will we help to get labelling in Denmark so that we can opt out of paying for the spread of Islam? And will the Left help to say: in the public sector, we should not be forced to pay for halal-certified goods by means of public funds, i.e. tax dollars, and thus be forced to pay for the spread of Islam? Two issues: labelling and no halal food or halal certification in the public sector financed by public funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117113959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114000	Well, you can't avoid halal-certified goods in public. After all, we have many Muslims in our day care institutions and in health care, etc. who would need such a product. What we have to look at is: what is this tax going to? That must be where the problem arises. If it goes to something that we cannot support and we have problems with, well then we have a challenge that we have to look at, perhaps from in here too. To the extent that you can imagine completely banning it in the public sector, we would never be involved in it because somebody needs those products in our country too in the public system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114037	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114040	If you do not want to be involved in banning it in public, would it not be fair to say that those who want halalcerified goods for the sake of theirs, what should you say, allegiance to the Islamic ideology, are allowed to pay for that product separately, and that, by the way, the public does not support the spread of Islam, and that therefore the rest of the public halal-certified goods are taken away?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114112	It is certainly true that it is not the task of public Denmark to help with the spread of Islam. Our job is that if you have patients or children or anyone else who wants these goods, you must, of course, meet it at the time they are in the shelter of the public sector. So we are very concerned that in the case of halal labelling there may be some problems that we need to look at, especially if funds go for a purpose that we cannot even recognise. We in the Left see this as a very, very big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114143	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114146	Thank you. I heard Mr. Mads Fuglede put it this way that you on the Left will look in particular at this question about halal, if the funds you pay go to something you're not really happy with in the Left. I do not think we need that, because we do know where these funds are going, and we have debated this here in Parliament a number of times, including during the previous government. So the question is really a review of Mrs Pernille Vermund's question on the Left on that basis, since the funds are going to these very dictatorial regimes that are spreading a shade of Islam, which by the way many Muslims do not think are very nice, so that the consumer will have the free choice, in relation to whether to buy a halal commodity or whether to buy a product that is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114252	It is not a political commodity that is on our shelf that we have to have compulsory labelling of goods, i.e. goods that are not halal goods. But if someone out there does it of their own motion, so that Danes can choose the product, then I would choose such a product myself when I traded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114308	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114312	But you can say that things don't happen if nobody does anything. And that's why it's a question that we can discuss in here, besides, of course, as a private person, you can do whatever you want. And the fact is that there are some limitations to the European Union about these things and that it may have been a barrier. But I don't really ask much about it. I would ask more: is the Left in favour of free choice, that is to say a labelling system, so that you can decide for yourself whether you want halal-slaughter meat or whether you do not want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114350	In the Left, we always support the free choice, but questions are asked as to whether there should be compulsory labelling of these products. We think there should be voluntary labelling so that those who produce the products can tell consumers that their products are not halal certified. And producers must be free to do so, and consumers must be free to choose such a product if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114418	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117114428	Thank you for the floor. We love our country. I really think we all do. That's why we're fighting for it. We are fighting to take care of it and for the values that we believe are important for Denmark. But we must also remember to ask ourselves what values actually matter, what values we fight for. When I was campaigning for the parliamentary elections this summer, it was among other things. with the message that we must protect the Danish values. Indeed, we must fight for the values that matter, the values on which we have built our country, our society and our democracy, and the values that we must deliver from generation to generation. This does not happen by itself, and that is also why it is insanely important that we do not delude each other or anyone else that they can be protected by symbolism policy. Don't tell me that the value to be handed over, which is so fundamental for our society and for our country, is pork or something else. In my view, it is quite silly and absurd to think that values can be protected by symbolism policy, and of course we can do more than pork and ban. To spell it out: I think my grandmother makes some of the very best meatballs. I know that sometimes you have to be careful what you say here from the platform, but they are really, really good. And she is also teaching me how to make them, and although I am very happy that my grandmother will deliver the meatball recipe to me, there are far more important things that she has also given me. She has taught me about community and unity, how to look after each other and how to consider each other. That means far more than the recipe for meatballs. For me there is no doubt that the values that I think really matter are values such as humanity and diversity; they are values such as freedom to be who you are; they are equality and democracy; and they are values such as rightfulness, generosity, liberalism and law, as our constitution here in Christiansborg so finely states. But in the public debate these important values are all too often overshadowed. You shout about what clothes you don't like people wear, what food people apparently should eat, how you should have a law on how to shake hands with each other, namely palm to palm. I'm sorry, but come on, you have a little faith in Denmark if you think we're falling with meatballs in kindergarten. That's making fun of everything that really matters to our country. The policy of symbols is, for me, an insult to how strong a country Denmark is. Denmark does not need symbols, but for us to fight for, among other things. free-minded and fair-minded. And right here and right now, we're protecting the values that matter. The values that I mean matter, I will fight for whatever someone else might think of it. I have quite a lot of confidence in the Danes and Denmark. We are constantly evolving, but that does not mean that we forget the basis on which we stand or the values that are important to us. It is not dangerous for us to develop. The dangerous thing would be if we thought we had to look back in the history books and thought everything was just perfect in the old days. The world is evolving, and so should Denmark. Development is full of opportunities, and it is up to us to make the most and the best of the opportunities that we create together and that all people in Denmark create together for our country. There will be no less of Denmark and the Danish values because we will have more members in the community. Instead of looking back so much towards something that actually never was, let us look forward and create a stronger Denmark, because Denmark belongs to all of us. Our country and our flag are not patented by any particular group. It belongs to all of us who love Denmark. Then, on behalf of the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the vast majority of new Danes are well integrated with fellow citizens in Denmark and must be recognised as such. A foreign policy must be pursued which continues to support the positive development of integration and prevents parallel societies from emerging. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish and support communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist religious as well as extreme right environments that seek to undermine democracy. • V 49).
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115017	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115027	Thank you. Imagine that today we are discussing the government's value policy on a Friday morning and then the radical rapporteur spends most of his speaking time on meatballs. It is almost too touching; it is almost too naive; it is primitive to put it bluntly. But let me just ask Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left something, because I was asked whether I wanted to tell you about some of the positive trends regarding immigration to Denmark. I would like to turn it back: what does the Radical Left really think is positive? Is this the cultural enrichment we've been hearing about for so many years? The only thing I can see is some very, very well-stocked greengrocers. And I don't see much else. I can't actually, I have to say that. And so let us hope that they all pay taxes and VAT etc. like their Danish colleagues. And in relation to a rapporteur's speech in this way from one of the government's supporting parties, where we are discussing such an important subject, and in relation to an agenda in which the three parties, which are the government's supporting parties, go exactly against what the government says, I have to say: fantastic
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115126	I am sorry if the rapporteur thought it was so primitive. In fact, I thought I was trying to focus on which values it is precisely important that we take care of here in Denmark. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard himself had mentioned pork in her rapporteur's speech, and that is why I perhaps did not think it was quite beside me that I was having a little fun with the meatballs. In fact, I think it is very positive that so many of those who have come to Denmark have taken Denmark to heart, are part of our society and contribute. In fact, I also find it extremely shameful that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is standing here and so strongly suggesting that they should not pay tax and VAT. I think that's the really boring effect here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115222	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115224	Unfortunately, this is just a fact, just as immigrant crime is also much higher than the crime of people of ethnic Danish origin. That's just the way it is. I'm just checking the facts, so that's the way it is. However, since the radical rapporteur is talking about symbolic policy, I have not been able to stop smiling every time I have heard it, because there is also some comic in it. It is comical in relation to the Radical Left, where the President takes a swim over to Lindholm and back again it is not symbol politics at all; it really is something that bats. And is the second part, namely that you spend one night or perhaps a little more in an immigrant area, in a ghetto, not symbolism policy? So, I am simply astonished that one can stand and talk so freely and cowardly about symbol politics without turning the arrow against oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115319	Well, you can, because there is a huge difference between what is symbolic policy and what then is an action to focus precisely on some of the things you disagree with. That's a shame, I think we're gonna solve any integration challenges because they're there by making a handshake law. I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115343	The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115347	Thank you for that, President. Now the rapporteur speaks against symbols. Dannebrog is a symbol. It is a symbol that has linked us to this country and been at the forefront of war and peace for the Danes as people for 800 years. And then you can look at the people who come in, if they share that feeling of belonging to this very strong Community symbol. It is actually so strong that as one of the only people in the world we have it with right into the living room, on the cake and on the Christmas tree etc. It is a very special way of being Danish and, as I understand the radical rapporteur, there are no problems with people from outside in relation to becoming Danish. She indirectly acknowledges that there seem to be some problems with someone who doesn't want to shake hands with women and things like that. So I would like to ask: is this something that we can include in the modern Danishism that the Radicals represent? We also know from up to several integration studies that about 40%. of the Danish Muslims believe that the Qur'an should play a role in the legislation. I just want to know if in the radical camp it has become such a good Danish value that a Middle Eastern sacred book has to play a role in Danish legislation. So, could the rapporteur try to say a little more about the enrichment she sees from the Middle East?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115510	Thank you for the floor. May I begin by correcting the rapporteur a little bit, because I have not spoken against the fact that we should have symbols as Dannebrog so rightly is. I spoke against symbolism policy and these are two very different things. I also think I was able to say before that I fully recognise that there are some challenges with some people. I also think it is really important to always focus on the fact that a lot of people are doing well. Having said that, I fully agree that nothing is above the law we adopt here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115553	If we then start from the last point of view, then the rapporteur cannot see that there is a little problem in relation to, for example, the fact that, for example, there is a problem. Almost half of all inmates in Denmark have a different ethnic background than Danish? This must mean, of course, that we somehow go beyond the legislation we have adopted here in the Folketing. So, does the rapporteur not see that there are real problems, not with foreigners in general, but with Muslims? As we agreed with the Left rapporteur, it has gone almost smoothly with Chinese, Indian, Jewish and all others. But this very group of people, not all of them, of course, should not have that scale, the rapporteur of the Radical Left, but really, really large groups of them are facing huge problems. And that's something you just ignore from the Radical Left. It may be because you are so well aware of the responsibility that it is difficult to relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115636	At least now it can be said that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself comes from a party that has had an enormous amount to say in Danish politics for the last 20 years. I would just like to emphasise that there are a great many Muslims, including those who are a very positive part of Danish society, and the challenges that are, we would really like to help solve. And I do not close my eyes to some of the challenges that are, but I do not do it either, when at the same time I recognise all those who are doing it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115715	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115717	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address the rapporteur's speech very specifically. The rapporteur opens with a speech about meatballs and food culture, and the pork is often used a little tacky: should we not have the right to eat our pork? But when we talk about our food culture and say that we do not want to have the Islamic influence on our food culture, it is very much about having a culture around the food, where we are not marked by religious dogmas and we do not have a division into what is pure and what is unclean, but that we say that we offer a party and that our food culture means a great deal to us as people. Having said that, the rapporteur also says something about what values you want to fight for, i.e. diversity, humanity, equality, democracy, liberalism and law. On this basis, I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the Radical Left believe that there will be more freedom, more liberalism, more law-making, more democracy, or that less of the same will happen when Islamic values spread in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115822	I find it hard to see that there should be a direct connection between it. You can easily be a Muslim and be part of a free and democratic society. I think you can be a Muslim, and there are plenty of Muslims there. But I think the rapporteur is luckily allowed to do so, and she should still be allowed away to serve all the food she wants for her parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115852	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115854	Now maybe we're talking about this again with ignorance or these blinds you sometimes have in front of your eyes. For the fact is that virtually all countries with Islamic values are either dictatorships or in strife or civil war-like conditions. It is evident that the more Islam fills a society, the less room there will be for democracy and freedom. Look out into the world: There is not a single place, there is not a single parallel society around in Western cities, where freedom and equality between people, sexual freedom and the way we have freed women do not suffer from the fact that Islam has come here. So does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a schism in relation to our democracy and freedoms when Islamic dogmatic values are gaining ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115954	Thank you to the questioner. That is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117115957	At any rate, it can be said that I do not recognise that our values of equality and open mind should be so weak that they can be affected by the fact that we have some individual citizens in this country, who are extreme, and the challenge that they are, must of course be taken seriously, and we must work on that. Because that does not belong to Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120023	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120033	Thank you. The rapporteur's party likes to present itself as a party made up of people who are open and knowledgeable and know the world, but I would argue that the Radical Left is one of the most provincial parties. Why is it that you think that the values you have are the same all over the world? Are you not aware of that in the Radical Left, but you clearly show that there are different cultures in the world and that there are some who do not subscribe to our freedoms and that you invite them into our country, do these freedoms run the risk of being trampled underfoot? That is what some people would call logic as battery hens, but it is obviously difficult for the Radical Left to accept. How can one believe that we will have more equality or we will maintain equality in Denmark when there is a large proportion of the population who subscribes to a book that says that women are half as much worth as men and considers it to be a significant religious message?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120135	I hardly know if I should take it as a compliment to be called provincial by Mrs Marie Krarup. I fully recognise that there is a difference between what you have of values around the world and that there are also some places that the Prime Minister mentioned, among other things. But I just think it is always important to remember whether we sometimes put our own freedoms under pressure in some misguided attempt to try to protect them, that is, when we talk about a burka ban. It's always been illegal to force women into some clothes. Now we have just given them the opportunity to pay a fine, and at the same time we have decided that as a state we should go in and decide what kind of clothes people must wear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120245	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120248	The rapporteur points to a very important problem, that is to say that sometimes freedom may have to be curtailed in order to defend the last remnants of freedom. Because if you invite a large number of people who are against democracy, you may have to defend democracy in various ways by restricting freedom. This is a terrible dilemma, and we in the Danish People's Party have always been aware of this. That is why we have said that we cannot invite so many people who want freedom and then believe that we can maintain freedom. That is where things are going all wrong, and the Radicals think that they are meatballs and scarves. It is about cultural systems and another belief in what is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120328	In fact, I think I said in my rapporteur's speech that some of the things that matter, the values that I will fight for, are the values that are also written out there on the wall of our constitution here at Christiansborg. They stand firm, they will not be shaken. Nor do they do so on our side, and that is certainly a guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120353	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120359	Thank you. I think that symbolic policy has become such a concept that is gradually being used for political initiatives and proposals which we disagree with, and that is why I would like to continue where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard escaped. I think it is a paradox that, on the one hand, most of the speaking time is spent talking about meatballs and handshakes and, on the other hand, saying that it is totally irrelevant when we have a debate on value policy. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something: can the rapporteur not understand that there are many people who can be provoked by it if they are expected to change their way of life or be subject to traditions if somewhere in Denmark they have come into a minority on a parental board, for example. In a kindergarten? Has the Radical Left forgotten that democracy is not a matter of majority dictatorship? Where's Hal Koch in the cargo here? The majority, even if it is with a foreign background, should remember the minority and also ensure that the practice of the minority, which after all has been dominant in Denmark, for example. that it is a completely normal thing that pork is part of a varied Danish diet, also plays a role. Why should it be reduced to symbolism and be totally irrelevant? I don't understand. I'd like to hear about that. I would also like to know whether the Radical Left is concerned only with the rights of minorities when it comes to people with a foreign background.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120522	No, we do not do that at all, and I never said that at any time. I always care that we take account of each other, and that applies to all people. I think that is a fine principle we have here in our country. There is nothing to do with having to take account of some others, and I think that is extremely important, regardless of who is in the minority. And that is true, no matter what religion or skin color or sexual orientation you may have. I would be surprised if the Social Democrats felt it was so important to have pork served in kindergarten. I just think that if it is so important to the rapporteur that the children eat pork, then I think it should be served at home. But I don't mind kindergarten doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120625	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120628	After all, I was not the one who used my rapporteur's speech to talk about pigmeat. I am simply concerned that if you mean it sincerely, that is to say you also care about minorities, when it is people with ethnic Danish background, you should stop ridiculing something that, after all, has been customary in Denmark for centuries, that pork is part of a diet and not reduce it to an indifferent debate. It is easy to ridicule it in the same way as it is easy to ridicule it if there is a housing association that abolishes the Christmas tree. But I understand that if you live in an area and suddenly become outnumbered culturally, you feel that you have almost become a guest in your own country, if something that has always been common and customary in Denmark is suddenly ridiculed and set aside as if it were stupid and symbolic politics. It is with regard to what I do not understand where the loyalty of the Radical Left is at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120724	With regard to the examples I have heard of the Christmas trees, as the rapporteur points out, I would say that it was estimated that having light on these Christmas trees cost a great deal of money. I guess that's a fair argument for the residents. Pia Kjærsgaard, you may laugh, but that is actually what I have heard as a reason. Sorry, I was distracted from the other side. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120754	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120800	It was a speech taken straight out of 1995. The rapporteur would like to talk about what is on the walls of the Walking Hall. I'd like to, too, because down at the other end of the Walking Hall there are two plaques. Why are they there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120816	Well, now I haven't been in here for as long as Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, so the rapporteur has just to specify which plaques the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120827	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120831	These are two plaques for Finn Nørgaard and Dan Uzan, who were the victims of an Islamist terrorist attack on 14 and 15 February 2015. So my first question is: why has it become necessary to put up those plaques? My second question is: is freedom of expression today more or less pressured than it was 20 years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120854	I'm sorry. I was just wondering what the end we were talking about. I'm so sorry; I know they're there. They are there because they became the victims of a miserable, miserable terrorist attack here in Denmark, and that is why we remember the people who were victims of it. In relation to freedom of expression, freedom of expression is always something we must be careful of. It will always be challenged, and it is our job to look after it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120922	In here in the Folketing we also have freedom of expression, as long as you do not use direct indictments for example. To say you. It's called "Mr." Henrik Dahl... or the spokesperson... in here in the Assembly Hall. Otherwise, we will have almost full freedom of expression when we simply comply with the Rules of Procedure. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117120940	Thank you. One of the things that really shocked me during the election campaign was the interaction that Radical Left had with some mosques around Denmark. I believe that it was in Aarhus that there was an electoral meeting, where only red parties had been invited, and subsequently, as I remember it, the religious community called for a vote on the Radical Left or the Enhedslisten. When you think of the evils that come out of some mosques around Denmark... women's oppression, Jewish hatred, social control... it's madness, and that makes me ask: Since the Radical Left had a good and close collaboration with these mosques and these Muslim environments, is the Radical Left's new voice in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121028	Now Mr. Marcus Knuth jo Aarhus, and I was elected in Aarhus for Radicals. I also have a standing circle in Aarhus V, which is why I was also asked by journalists when this case came up about this debate meeting, where apparently only one side of the Danish Parliament was invited if I had been there. It wasn't. I don't know who it was. I have not been part of anything in which we have said that we should be called upon to vote on a particular or two particular parties. I think it is extremely important that you hear all the different points of view. The only debate meeting I took part in specifically in Gellerup was a debate meeting, among other things. The Danish People's Party, the Left and the Social Democrats were present together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121125	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121129	Thank you. Now my question was not whether the rapporteur attended this meeting himself. My question was whether the Radical Left is now considered to be the voice of Islam in the Folketing with the close cooperation that the party had with mosques and the recommendations that came. So I would be happy if the rapporteur could reply to that, and I would also like to ask: can we expect the Radical Left, if the answer is no, not to lead a similar election campaign hand in hand with various mosques around Denmark for the next parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121159	I would say that we are talking to all the citizens of Denmark for an election. That's true, whether you're a Muslim or a Christian. The important thing, however, is that we should inform people that people are participating in our democracy. Surely no one should feel that they should vote on the Radical Left. If you have voted in favour of the Radical Left and thought that you had someone who spoke only in favour of a religion, then at least you have been disappointed, because we are some of those who fight hardest for equality, both between the sexes and for sexual minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121232	Then it's mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121244	I find it interesting, perhaps even marvellous, to call a handshake ceremony symbolism when it emphasizes a Danish value, namely that women and men are equal, and have become necessary because it is not a matter of course; people come to our country who do not believe that women and men should shake hands with each other. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur: where is the limit, when is any symbolic policy when it comes to supporting non-Western women's rights in Denmark? Because it is obviously not a right that they are equal to men when it comes to shaking hands. I mean, how far do we have to go down the slope before you get in and defend their rights as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121335	We always defend women's rights too. This is among other things. That is why we would very much like to see the strengthening of women's crisis centres and exit programmes, so that we can actually help these women, because that is what this is all about. After all, it is not about whether we can make a burka law about anything and then shoot it under the guise of helping women when there was already a law that made it illegal to force women to go with burka. I mean, that's where the border is like being crossed and you're actually gonna make a law to send a symbol, and we're not gonna move anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121418	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121422	Now I didn't ask about burka. I asked about the very important signal that you send, knowing that when you become a Danish citizen, you emphasise with the ceremony that women and men are equal. However, the Radical Left believes that it is symbolic policy to emphasise that women and men are equal, although we know that for many non-western women this is how they have been brought up that they have been told that this is not the situation for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121450	So, as I said just now, if you think you have voted on the Radical Left as a party that will accept that men and women are not equal, then you are absurdly disappointed, because men and women in Denmark are equal, and they continue to do so. But when you have a handshake law, the whole problem with it isn't that I don't think it's really good that, as a starting point, we salute by shaking hands with each other. I'm also hugging a lot of things, but it's that we write down in a law, how you put your hand against your palm to greet each other at this ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121522	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr President. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117121534	Thank you. We are taking this question debate on foreign policy right in the stream of a new report by VIVE, who has interviewed several Muslim women held hostage in religious communities, even after these marriages have formally dissolved according to Danish legislation. In the report you can, among other things. read about Samira, who, shortly after she announced her desire for divorce, must experience her husband abducting their children to the Middle East and holding them hostage until she conforms to a proper wife. And we can read about Wafa, who is told by an imam that he cannot dissolve her marriage without the man's consent, although the man will only divorce if Wafa surrenders his daughter to him. The report is, in general, a horror cabinet of horror stories if you care about the hard-won rights that women have won in this country over the last century and I do, both as a feminist and as a lover of freedom. The fact that these women's fates are taking place in Denmark in 2020 is an absurd tragedy, and I cannot imagine that anyone can have the idea of talking the problem down. It is even more tragic that the alleged strong Danish welfare society is far too little able to seize these women before they fall. Our crisis centres do not have sufficient resources, they lack geographical coverage and are underfunded in order to guarantee the specific knowledge required by the area. It is just an example of how I think that minorities who need help are being made a huge disservice if we neglect the continuing need to rectify integration. Having said that, I encounter as often as bad excuses a doomsday rhetoric that makes it sound as if nothing works and as if the whole country will collapse under imaginary integration challenges before we have seen ourselves. The opposite is true. More minority women are being educated, an increasing number of rebels in patriarchal societies are opening their mouths and meeting with support, and crime is falling for all groups. In the SF we have very little understanding of the need to talk about integration as something that goes unequivocally well or goes unequivocally bad. And this is probably linked to our contempt for the constant division in the Folketing of relaxing and tightening parties. When there are Muslim women who are haunted by a man because he has a religious claim to maintain an otherwise legally broken marriage, integration is obviously a bad thing there, but when women as a whole break out of reactionary cultural patterns and train themselves, it is equally obvious that it is outrageous to claim that everything is lost. That is where I believe that the debate on foreigners should be, namely that we resolve the challenges that are obvious and have a sincere conversation about them without being afraid of touch, but also recognise that the vast majority of immigrants, who represent an unequivocal benefit to the Danish society, who behave properly and even contribute with new perspectives on the world, are helping to develop us as a nation. I see nothing more than that the only ones who have an interest in denying this relatively trivial division are those who get the wind of either drawing rosy shine pictures or darkened delusions of the complex reality that is out there. With that said, I would like to read out the SF's proposal for adoption and it is a true copy of the proposal for adoption made last year by the SF, the Radicals, the Alternative and Enhedslisten. Holger K. Nielsen was rapporteur for my party in the same debate. Indeed, I think that the proposal for adoption was right in the eye. It reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy must be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and there is no parallel society. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. • V 51). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122011	Thank you. I'm not quite sure if it's been delivered to the secretariat. Carl Valentin It should have been sent in this morning, but otherwise I will give a copy of it afterwards). Yeah, we're gonna get a copy over here just in case. The proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate when it has otherwise been submitted and registered with the Secretariat. Then there are questions, and it is only from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122039	Thank you. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that there is no point in conducting a prophecy and rhetoric of doom, because we are sitting here and having the opportunity to change the developments we have seen for too many years. Doomsday rhetoric comes only when there is no majority to actually reverse developments, that is, when there is no majority in the Folketing saying: OK, we have to do what needs to be done so that these problems do not get worse year by year, but get better. That's what sometimes makes some of us a little discouraged. We are hearing a rapporteur's speech here, explaining very well what the challenges are, in the Muslim environments or in some of the Muslim environments, but, on the other hand, we also distance ourselves from this, and we do so in concrete terms, which are both the proposals of the bourgeois parties for adoption, the DF's proposals for adoption, our proposals for adoption and even the Social Democrats' proposals for adoption, and so today we are making a proposal for adoption, together with the Radical Left and with the Enhedslist, which leads me to ask: is that understood? Carl Valentin Yes! ) Sorry! But you are making a proposal for adoption which is in conflict with the Social Democratic Party, and that is why I have to ask: what is it that still stands in the SF on the side where you cannot even support a proposal for adoption by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122215	Again, I think the questioner is doing something wrong by saying that one is standing on that side. In other words, we have put forward a proposal for adoption which we think most accurately describes the position of the Socialist People's Party. I think that's a very good approach to this. It is not a proposal for adoption which is in opposition to the Social Democratic Party; in fact, I think there is some overlap in the wording, but it is the one that best represents our position, so if the rapporteur has a problem with it, one can attack it. In relation to the first, as Mrs Pernille Vermund said, in relation to doomsday rhetoric, I do not think it is possible to excuse the rhetoric of doom that there is no majority in the Folketing for one's policy. For when there is no majority in the Folketing for Mrs Pernille Vermund's policy, it is acting, among other things. on the fact that we are, fortunately, a number of parties who actually think that we should help people fleeing war and that we should take quota refugees again, for example. Well, you can't just excuse a very, very harsh rhetoric that you can't get your policy through. One must fight for one's cause, but I do not think there is any reason for the fragmentation of rhetoric that is often heard by the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122314	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122318	When there is a fragmented rhetoric, perhaps not just from us, but also from a lot of Danes out there who feel let down, it is because elections after elections and also on the Parliament's platform have stood politicians and talked about the fact that they recognise the problems, but who actually do not have the courage and the will to solve the problems when it comes down to it. Therefore, we still see an increasing number of inhabiting Muslims. We see a situation where Koran bricks adorn the streets, where the Jewish synagogue is militarily guarded and where the number of young people with a non-western background born in Denmark and who believe that religious laws should be above democratically adopted legislation is increasing. So that rhetoric doesn't come from nothing, but it comes from a desperation, because you say one thing and do another. When is the SF willing to do what it takes to reverse developments and not continue the wrong path?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122414	It is difficult to answer when we are willing to do what it takes, because what is needed? If it is New Citizens' policy, we will never be willing to do what it takes. Because we're not willing to close the border. On the other hand, we want to do what we can to help women out of patriarchal environments if they are oppressed and we want to do what we can to strengthen integration and combat crime and ensure that we are not fragmented into parallel societies. We must ensure that we go to school together and work together across cultural divides. So the SF will never be willing to conduct New Citizens' policy, but I can promise the questioner that we are willing to combat the integration problems we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122448	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122455	Thank you for the floor. My question is inspired by Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, who asked a question that was so good that I want to be sure that it will be asked again. The question is: why should a particular group in society be praised for behaving properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122511	I do not think I commend a social group for behaving properly, but I note that in many ways we actually have successful integration in Denmark. We also have some problems, but we also have successful integration, and that is not because people need to be praised wildly. However, I would also like to say that there are some people who come here with some very, very difficult conditions to integrate well. If, for example, you're gonna have to... I think it is quite impressive if you enter the Danish labour market and even have a surplus to take on many of the Danish values and all such things. That is, of course, something we should expect from people, but I also think it is fair enough to recognise that it actually takes effort to integrate into another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122548	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122551	Actually, I don't think that's an answer, because that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund has previously brought into the debate, is of course very, very relevant. Why should not Western immigrants be praised by among others. SF, when they behave? Surely there are no other groups in society that are praised for behaving properly. You are criticized for being wrong, but you do not go around praising members of HK or FTF or farmers or people from Silkeborg just because they behave properly. It doesn't make any sense. What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122624	I do not think, however, that the rapporteur has made it clear where it is that I very much commend people for their conduct. I simply point out that integration is going very well in many ways and that there are some people who are good at taking the Danish values into account. We should also remember that there are in fact some people in this country who have not necessarily wanted to travel out of their own country in the first place, but who have been forced to do so because of war and such things, and that people then take our values to heart and integrate into our society, is admirable. Of course that is something we should expect, but I also think it is fair enough to recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122652	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122658	I think it was such sensible questions that were raised here by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund and Mr. Henrik Dahl, and I still don't think we have an answer. I also think it is hypocritical. We should almost fall into a dizzy state because some people are behaving properly. Well, they just have to do that. That's the way it is. Then I would like to ask the Socialist People's Party a question: will you tell us what the contribution of immigration is to the benefit of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122725	One unfortunately has only one minute to talk, so I don't think I can tell you about all the many beautiful people I have attended in high school with at Mulles Legat School close to Vollsmose, who have made a huge and positive difference to my life, the young people with other ethnic backgrounds with whom I have cultivated karate and had a great community, my many fellow citizens out in Copenhagen's northwest neighbourhood, where I live today, and who contribute positively to Danish society, and the way people who come from outside contribute to our development and our culture. I love, for example. hiphop, and there are fantastic many talented rappers with other ethnic backgrounds that contribute to the Danish hiphop culture, and I could go on. I think there are plenty of people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish who contribute positively to our society. There are also integration problems, but that is not what I was asked about now, and I think that there are a lot of people coming to this society who are making a really positive contribution. I forgot to mention, for example. my intern, who is a Muslim by the way, who helps me daily here in the Folketing with my political work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122825	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122828	Okay, so hip-hop culture concrete. What else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122832	Didn't Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard listen? I highlighted as many examples as I could reach in 1 minute, and I could see from my little digital clock here that I had one second left. There are therefore plenty of people who contribute positively to Danish society in all sorts of different ways. We have people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish who sit in the Folketing and who contribute to our democracy. I don't understand how to put it up so black and white. Again, just as I talked about in my speech, there are integration problems, it's 100% certain, but there are also lots of sunshine stories about people who contribute positively to this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122909	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122912	Does the rapporteur think that is 36 billion? kr. Worth a year that we've got a richer hip-hop culture and a better environment in karate clubs?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122919	It is totally ridiculous to ridicule my argument and to neglect the enormous influence that other people, people who come here, have on our culture, to reduce it to karate and hiphop. It was just some examples of my own life that I brought up, and by the way I also mentioned the many people with whom I have attended high school, and the people who are part of our democracy in here in the prime hall of the country. So I think it makes a positive difference to society with many of the people who have come to this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122943	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117122947	Yes, but it is simply strange that the rapporteur mentions this as some of his first reasons why immigration has been positive for Denmark, but let it be. This is a very large and costly area, and the problems of integrating non-Westernly in Denmark are very, very expensive for Danish society. Is the enrichment which the rapporteur believes it has brought to Denmark in terms of economic objectives with the expenditure we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123023	Yes, I think so, but I do not think it can be measured only in relation to the enrichment of Danish society, because when we allow people to come to this country, it is not just for our own sake. Sometimes it is, for example. to help people fleeing war, or some who would like to join the family with the person they love. There may be many different reasons for coming to this country and I do not think we should pursue a policy solely on the basis that we want to see what we ourselves get out of that policy. There may be many reasons why people come to Denmark, and I think they should be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123052	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And the next is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123101	Thank you. I used to work in a day care center at Nørrebro, and the other day I met one of those I once cared for. She isn't for inscrutable reasons • teenager now, and it's a little strange when I don't feel that I'm older myself, or at least don't feel that I look older. But let it go. She was born in Denmark, her parents are originally from Pakistan, they have work in Denmark, they have learned to speak Danish. I talked to her about her school and the things she does when she's off school, and we came up with a little bit about whether you feel Danish, because she naturally has a different skin color than many of her classmates. And she experiences that she often has to defend that she feels Danish, even though she was born here in Denmark. She feels, she said to me, a hundred percent Danish, even though her parents do not originally come from Denmark. I just have to say that this makes me a little sad, because it is an expression of something that I unfortunately often encounter, namely that young people who were born in Denmark but who have parents who come from another country feel that they have to defend that they are Danish. This girl said to me: My parents have a job, my parents speak Danish. And it was always important for her to argue about what her parents did to prove that they were Danish and that she could say about herself: I am 100% Danish. So this is a young girl born in Denmark. I have to say that I believe that, in addition to making life harder for her and others in a similar situation, it is an exceptionally bad starting point for integration, and in this way it will be a problem for all of us that there are young people who were born in Denmark but who always think they should defend that they are Danish. The suspicion, which I actually think is going to fill more and more, of young people born here in Denmark, but also of adults who have Danish citizenship, does not contribute to integration. The theme of today's debate, which has been convened by the Danish People's Party, is about Danish values, but when I do mention integration, it is because what I think has been most in this debate has been the question of people coming from outside. Of course, the debate is also about what immigration has to do with Danish values, but I still think it is appropriate to mention that debates such as this can actually harm integration when people who are Danish citizens are suspicious and who are born here in Denmark. The debate that has been convened is about Danish values, as if Danish values were under threat.That's what I understand concerns the Danish People's Party. This is such a rather fluffy debate, but I would like, if nothing else, to take the debate. I think that we all put a little different things into what Danish values are, but some of what I think is very important about Denmark is equality between men and women. Fortunately, this is not something we have patented in Denmark. There are very many places in the world where equality between men and women is at stake. We have legislation in Denmark which ensures that gender discrimination is not allowed, but we are not in the end at all. There are all kinds of things that we could do better, even on that front, but we have legislation. Is there any indication that a majority in this House is adopting a new legislation in Denmark which means that equality should no longer be part of our legislation? No, thank God there isn't. It can also be said that this is about the division of power, which we regard as a foundation in Denmark. I believe it is under threat, but after all we are not about to abolish it. You can ask questions about freedom of religion, which I think is an important value in our society. Is there any indication that anyone in here is in the process of abolishing religious freedom? No, there isn't. And that is why I think we must ask ourselves: are the Danish values really as threatened as one might think if one has listened to this debate? I do not think so, despite the fact that I am a little concerned about our rule of law. Does this mean that there are no problems? No, it doesn't. And one of the major problems that I think we have in Danish society, and which, fortunately, has also been raised in this debate, is the question of young people being subjected to social control where they live, or by their family and in their close relations. Unfortunately, I now have no more time, but it may well be that I have some questions that will allow us to get a little deeper into it. My conclusion is that I do not believe that the Danish values are as threatened as one could get the impression of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123617	Yes, and there are at least four who will ask questions, so the possibility is there. The first is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123624	I should like to ask Enhedslisten what Enhedslisten thinks immigration has contributed positively to Danish society other than hip-hop culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123636	I believe that immigration has contributed many different positive things. This is particularly true in our field of culture, and then I should not say anything about my love for hip-hop, but we can also look at literature and plays. I really think that what is important when we talk about culture is that culture is something you create between people. This is not something we can use to walk and beat each other upside down by saying: our culture is like that and your culture is like that. Culture is very much something that people create between people. Of course we also have some cultural heritage with us, but culture seems to me to be something that people create between people, and that is where I think immigration has contributed positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123717	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123719	After all, it was not me, but the Socialist People's Party, who used it as the only example, that hiphop was a contribution when I asked them the same question. But then, like Mr. Simpson, I'd like to... Mads Birded asked about these 36 billion. kr., which is the financial cost. Maybe it's more, but it's the official number. I think there may be some dark numbers, but that's the official number, and that's also loud enough. But does it measure up to the very few examples, none of which were concrete, that Enhedslisten came with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123753	The reason I mentioned hiphop was because Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard himself mentioned it in her question to me. As far as the 36 billion is concerned. kr., maybe it costs more, or maybe it costs less. I really think we owe it to each other to get right into these numbers. But yes, I actually think it's a fair price. We have quite a lot of money in Denmark compared to the areas where these people come from. After all, some of these people have fled from climate disasters and from war and have fled precisely because they are fighting for the values we believe in in Denmark, about equality, freedom and democracy, and there I think we can certainly afford to give them shelter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123830	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123837	It is certainly not a secret, then, if you read the reports of the secret services that the greatest terrorist threat to Denmark at this time, which is actually relatively large, comes from radical Muslims. And I say deliberately radical Muslims. We have in Krystalgade down here a synagogue, which since the last terrorist attack in Denmark has been protected first by the police since the military. This means that there are people in our society who cannot cultivate their beliefs... their religion... without military protection. Does this mean, according to the Enhedslisten, that we have been given more or less freedom of religion as a result of the influx of some people who, for some, have adapted to our values and taken them into account, but who, for too much, turn their backs on our values and, for some, are directly opposed to them? Have we been given more or less religious freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117123945	I am very concerned that there are some people in Denmark who cannot walk in peace on the streets because they practice a particular religion. Be it Jews, but be it Muslims. I'm really, really worried about that. My claim here from the platform is the more that no one in here is in the process of abolishing religious freedom. I don't think there is. It is also a value that we like to safeguard in the Enhedslisten, despite the fact that we are socialists and thus probably have a slightly different relationship to religion than most others in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124021	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124024	Now it is hardly the case that anyone sits down and makes a bill to abolish religious freedom. It will quietly wreak havoc if we allow Islamic values to take root in our society. We can see that when we look out in the world. We can see this in the parallel societies where Islam is gaining ground both in other European countries and also in Denmark. That is why I have to ask Mrs Rosa Lund: will more Islam in Denmark increase the impact of Islamic values • give more freedom of religion or less freedom of religion in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124101	I fully agree that we should not have Islamist values to take root in our society, just as we should not have any other religious values to take root in our society. In the Enhedslisten we are in favour of a separation of church and state. We took the lead in the fight to abolish the blasphemy clause, so I would say that if anyone is in favour of religion and politics not being linked in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124122	The next question is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124131	Thank you, and thank you for your presentation. Mrs. Rosa Lund talked about her having her daily walk at Nørrebro, and that she there experienced children who constantly had to defend herself in relation to how Danish they are. It's not really a reality I know about. It is certainly not a widespread reality, because I come from another reality and am born into the reality of Middle Eastern culture. What I experience is the greatest barrier to integration itself is indeed Danishness, and in it lies the Danish values. This is the biggest barrier to integration. What I see is that the majority would prefer not to be called Danish. They have their own ethnicity and their own background. Does the rapporteur not recognise that it is the Danish values themselves and the Danishness that are the main challenge in the integration debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124248	I'm not quite sure I understand the question, but I'll try to answer it. I do not think that Danish values are an obstacle to integration, on the contrary. After all, we are working on integration in particular, that those who come here should become part of our society and adopt our values. That is why I think it is so insanely important that we should, for example, be able to do so. Danish learns from day one, when you come to Denmark, because language is an insanely important prerequisite for us to be together, and this is an insanely important prerequisite for you to be a part of the labour market, as you know. Probably the biggest community we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124327	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124329	Thank you. When we talk about the social control of women, it is precisely in order to prevent them from becoming educated. The same applies to reeducational journeys. There is the argument that they have become overseas, so they have to take a trip to their home country. That's actually what I meant by Danish values. Does Mrs Rosa Lund not recognise that it is actually the Danish values that we would like to see rejected and that that is why we have integration problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124404	Now I understand the question better. Yes, I accept that. I think it is a really big problem for young people to be sent on reeducation trips, and I think it is a really big problem that there are so many young people in Denmark who are victims of social control. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur has been present throughout the debate, but in my questions to other rapporteurs I have also tried to raise the problems of social control. We in Enhedslisten are very concerned about how to prevent it, which is why we work among other things. in order that when you come to Denmark, you also get some norm-critical education in that Denmark is thus a country where you have free sexuality and where there is gender equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124442	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124449	Thank you. The synagogue in Krystalgade is under guard by two armed officers around the clock, all year round. Are there any mosques in Denmark that are subject to the same guard and protection regime as the synagogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124507	Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124509	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124510	If the rapporteur is not aware of the fact that there are some mosques in this situation, why is it that the rapporteur still equates the guarding of the synagogue with the exercise of Islam when anti-Semitism is a very specific problem, which also cost two people their lives, as we talked about before? Why relative these attacks on the freedom of religion of Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124537	What I'm relativeing is more that there are probably more people in Denmark who feel attacked on the basis of their religion, and I think that is a problem. The question that Jews should be allowed to worship their religion and should be allowed to walk in peace on the street with a castle is a major concern to us in the Enhedslisten, which is why we have also brought the question of hate crimes against Jews into the debate in the negotiations we are about to have now on a new police settlement. It is insanely crucial that our police and prosecutors are prepared to protect Jews in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124608	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124610	Thank you. I attached myself to an answer that Mrs. Rosa Lund gave to Mr. Mads Birded, because that's where you're talking about this 36 billion. kr., as the Ministry of Finance, the ROCKWOOL Foundation and others have mentioned. Mrs Rosa Lund made it sound like that number was almost blown up, and I just want to warn you about that. In other words, if you have an interest in that figure sounding lower, I do not think you should ask for an even more thorough study, going further and looking at what it has to do with the over-representation that we have in all the wrong statistics, which every year cost disproportionate money in educators, in treatment offers, help for victims and court cases, where it costs society huge amounts of money in addition to what is in this equation, which is primarily about underemployment. And that's next. But in the first place I would really like to ask whether Mrs Rosa Lund agrees with me that this figure is, in fact, far, much higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124712	Well, I have an interest in discussing the facts, and that is why I would like us to go into the figures properly, and that was actually the reason for my reply to Mr. Mads Birded. I don't know if the number is higher or lower. I am just saying that when we get some figures, I think it makes sense for us, as a government of the people, to get into them properly. And even if it doesn't end up to my own advantage, we have to discuss the facts when we discuss in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124736	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124739	In that case, I think the rapporteur must be prepared to see that the figure would be significantly higher if an even more thorough study were to be carried out, but leave it at that. In some of his answers, the rapporteur also referred to some of the positive contributions that have been made here with culture, writers and hiphop, which have been mentioned earlier and I think we are moving in a corner of the whipped cream up at the top of the cake here, where I would like to move into the macron floor. So, those who stand up and earn the daily bread by going to work every day, whether they are Danes or non-Western immigrants, are those who are the basis of the Danish welfare society. Here we have a significant under-representation on the labour market. What do the rapporteur think we should do about it when it comes to non-western immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124816	Well, now I just want to make it clear once and for all: it's sir. Carl Valentin talking about hip-hop. I'm out and proud poppy. That's number one. Number 2 is that I think it is a really big problem that there are so many non-Western women who are not part of the Danish labour market, and we have to do something about that, and here I think the language is insanely important. Therefore, I would urge the government that when you make your employment effort, you do it so that we ensure that it is not the case that you stand alone in a warehouse at night without any colleagues, because then you never learn to speak Danish, and then it becomes even harder to become part of Danish society and become part of the Danish labour market, and therefore it is so important to me that when we make an employment effort, as I believe we should, we should ensure that language becomes part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124900	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124904	Thank you. My view is that a cornerstone of the challenges we face with integration in Denmark is the interpretation of Islam. Then you can do it politically correctly and talk about non-Western or Middle Eastern values, but it is all based on the interpretation of Islam. And the hot spot for much of the crooked misinterpretation of Islam is the mosques around Denmark. We have all seen the bad examples of the mosques behind the veil in relation to violence against women, women who have no rights, etc. etc. Yet the Enhedslisten during the election campaign is working closely with some of the mosques around Denmark. Some of these congregations then go out and point to Enhedslisten and Radical Left as the ones to vote for. How does the rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117124949	I don't know if this is reassuring. Marcus Knuth, but I can tell you that there were actually many of these religions, like Mr. Marcus Knuth talks about campaigning against the Enhedslisten because we have had the blasphemy clause abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125003	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125007	Well, that wasn't my question. My question was: how does the rapporteur feel about Enhedslisten working closely with some mosques when we see that the mosques are there again and again, how many of these problems come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125024	Then I have to go home and do my homework, because I simply do not know that my party, Enhedslisten, which is socialists and therefore not religious, should have had a close collaboration with a mosque, but I would like to check whether we have had it. But I have to say, I'm having a hard time imagining it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125039	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we turn to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservatives, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125055	Thank you, sir. President. I have really looked forward to this debate, because the impact of immigration on Denmark is a theme that obviously affects us all very much. You feel it in one way or another every day in the media and around the street. My first reaction, when I heard about this question debate, was that I wanted to make a thundering speech about all the problems we have with Islam in Denmark, and about parallel societies, rabid mosques, social control, etc., but then when I looked at the headline, I saw that it is about immigration in general and not just about asylum influx from, for example. The Middle East and North Africa, from which, in many cases, they have established themselves in parallel societies. I had a really good talk with Mads Fuglede from the Left about this, and that's also why our text reflects what it does, because immigration to Denmark has over the years been a good thing, because a large part of immigration has come from our neighbourhoods or from areas from which one could very quickly integrate. My own mother's family came here from Sweden, and they were not alone, because I think Sweden is one of the countries that sent the most people to Denmark, and they have become Danes very quickly. My father's family came here from Germany, and when I went to school at Lolland, many of my classmates had Polish surnames because so many Poles have just come over time. The common denominator for all is that one has become Danish in often very, very short time. We must therefore bear this in mind in this debate, in other words that all immigration is not an evil, and Denmark is now made up of people who have come here from many different areas, but they have all taken Denmark to heart. But that does not change, as we are hearing very clearly today, that we have a huge problem with immigration from Muslim countries in particular. The negative examples of parallel societies have already been mentioned in this Chamber today. The rabid mosques with whom I believe the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left cooperate, women's oppression, Jewish hatred, unemployment, crime are the problems we must deal with much harder. We must continue the tight immigration policy of the former Blue Government. We are not going to raise the social benefits that the Social Democrats are in the process of doing, because this leads to worse integration, and that makes Denmark a more attractive place to seek asylum. Nor do I think we should go out for election campaigns with various mosques, as the Radicals and Enhedslisten have done, at least congregations around here have recommended voting for exactly those parties. On the other hand, we must take much harder action against the parallel societies that exist, and we must bring the influx of asylum even further down. I also think we should make it considerably harder to obtain Danish citizenship. Then there is something very important to me, namely that we should be able to speak openly about religion being part of the challenge. As I mentioned in my question to Mrs Rosa Lund of the Enhedslisten, I believe that Islam, or rather the interpretation of Islam, is a cornerstone of failed integration. It is because of the interpretation of Islam that there is negative social control in the Muslim environments. Girls must not have a boyfriend who is not a Muslim, women must not work, women must not associate with men, and much of this therefore is due to the interpretation of Islam. We must be able to talk openly about this. The irony here sometimes lies in the fact that in the years when I worked in the Middle East in Turkey, I felt that there was such a youth movement where one really wanted more freedom, but it is as if many in the Muslim environments, when they come to Denmark, should interpret Islam in a completely twisted and far more orthodox way than that which many young people in the Middle East are trying to do, and that is for me a complete paradox. So when the Prime Minister says that God has a duty to give way, I don't agree. Danish society is based on healthy, free, Christian values, and the Danish National Church is by no means the cause of the problems we are talking about today, on the contrary. I will never say that our Christian God has a duty to give way. I am tempted, however, only tempted to say that Allah has a duty to give way, but that will probably lead to a major theological discussion, so I would like to say in more detail that the rabid mosques and religious preachers and interpreters of Islam in Denmark have a duty to give way to our free Danish society. So I hope that we can include in the future the problem of precisely the interpretation of Islam in Denmark to a greater extent than we have done so far, because I believe that this is a cornerstone of the failed integration that has been. In those words, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal for adoption which the Left has read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125530	Thank you. And there's a question. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125534	It is, of course, because I find it very interesting that the Conservative rapporteur knows about cooperation between Enhedslisten and some mosques and that I do not know about it. That's why I get so curious about what kind of cooperation it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125551	Now I do not have all the details in front of me here, but at least I know that in Aarhus and this was confirmed by the radical rapporteur, too, was a mosque that went out and recommended to vote on precisely Enhedslisten and Radical Left. You should vote for them. You did not have to vote blue, and there was a larger electoral meeting where blue parties were not invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125612	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125614	Then I can tell the Conservative rapporteur that I have been appointed and elected in Copenhagen, and there I have been to electoral meetings where religions have shouted at the Enhedslisten, because it was obviously our fault that Rasmus Paludan was able to run for parliament because we had abolished the blasphemy clause. I am actually quite proud of this, but once again I would just like to ask the Conservative rapporteur to be very specific about what some people are working with mosques, both my party and the Radical Left, should have been part of, because I simply do not know anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125649	Perhaps the radical rapporteur can help me with the name of the mosque, but there were among others. a mosque in Aarhus, which clearly went out and recommended that you vote for one of these parties, and you did not invite the blue parties. I hope that the rapporteur from the Radicals can help me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125701	Then it's Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125711	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the presentation. In his speech, the rapporteur first stressed that it was all about Islam, and then the rapporteur said that it was also about an interpretation, a twisted interpretation, of Islam. There is my question: does the rapporteur recognise that there may be and that there are in fact many different interpretations and interpretations of Islam? That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125746	Yes, I do, and that is why I used the wording of Islam over and over again. I have myself, among other things. as a soldier in Afghanistan for a long time working with Afghan soldiers, as I know all were Muslims, who risked their own lives in the fight against Islamism, against terrorism, against the Taliban. I've been patrolling them and having breakfast and dinner with them. There are many Muslims around the world who are fighting against Islamism, but what I see in Denmark in certain Muslim environments is a twisted interpretation of Islam, where one almost tries to be even tougher and even harder than we see anywhere in the Middle East, where, as I mentioned, there are major youth movements fighting for more freedom. It is as if things are going the wrong way as soon as people come to Denmark. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125828	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125830	I am very pleased to hear that, because I also think it is very important to clarify and address the problem so that we do not beat everyone. In this way, you can actually gain more support. It was just a comment, and thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125849	Thank you. I also worked a little over in Turkey, which I am sure the rapporteur knows about. If you take a trip around the streets of Istanbul, there is a youth who is in some ways far more western than you see in some Muslim environments in Denmark, and I do not understand the paradox.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125851	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117125912	Now the rapporteur mentioned what other rapporteurs have also done, quite rightly, I think that the problem that I really think it was during the election campaign was that there were mosques who recommended voting on Radical Left and strongly left-wing parties. It's a bad thing. And then I just have to ask the rapporteur: the next election that will probably come is the local elections, where you don't even have to be a Danish citizen in order to vote. We are against this in the Danish People's Party. We believe that one must be a Danish citizen in order to be able to vote for all democratic elections in Denmark. I know that Conservatives have a different attitude, unfortunately, that is the way it is, but there I think you can have an even greater fear, because there are a great many more who can be more or less indoctrinated by the parties they invite, and then the congregation gets a recommendation that this is where you have to cross.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130006	Now the questioner is hitting a very important issue, and it goes a little back to the beginning of my rapporteur's speech here, compared to many of those who have come to Denmark • I spoke to an Englishman the other day seeking Danish citizenship, and people come here from Sweden and from Germany. If you've lived in Denmark for 15 years as an Englishman, I have no problem with you voting for the community. The challenge is for people to come here who have some very anti-democratic views. But you can't put a dividing line in it and say, "You can't vote, you can't vote." There are the rules that they are. I think that we should look more closely at tightening up who is actually coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130046	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130048	You can, because there is already. So, in relation to the citizens of the European Union, nothing can be done at all, and that is exactly what Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned at first instance. But it is actually those who are outside the European Union as it was intended, and not so much Germans and Swedes, Norwegians and Dutch, etc. I know there is a Dutch mayor on Samsø, for example, who is now seeking Danish citizenship, but has voted and is even mayor. That is how it is within the European Union. That is not the way I think it should be, but that is the way it is, and we cannot do anything about it, unfortunately. That's the way it is. However, we can do something about those who are outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130120	Well, there I will hold on to the fact that we have to do what we can so that people who don't want Denmark well just don't come to Denmark at all. So let me embrace a little wider and say: I have nothing against an American engineer who has lived in Denmark for many years, voting. And there I do not think they should be punished because there are people who have come here who do not want Denmark well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130142	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130143	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech in many ways and some good reflections also afterwards. I think, however, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has been quoted a little laxly sometimes during the day, so I have just found the exact quotation where he says it was before he became a minister, but nevertheless: "When religion and democracy collide, it is God who has a duty to give way, and when half of the descendants think that religion should be exempted from criticism, then I interpret it as meaning that democracy has a duty to give way. I would therefore just like to ask: where in this quotation is it actually that the rapporteur disagrees with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130219	My reference was to the Prime Minister, who said that God has a duty to give way, and I believe that religion, as it has now been implemented, the Christian faith in Denmark, regardless of whether you believe in God or not, regardless of whether you go to church or not, is a fundamental part of the Danish, free thinking that men and women have equal rights, our values of freedom, etc. So to begin to say that our God has a duty to give way, that is, I think one begins to punish the Christian faith and the Christian Church for some problems that the interpretation of Islam has created in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130256	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130257	Well, I don't bring it up to be polemic or anything. I'm just bringing it up to get it into the context in which it is brought. And it is, of course, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, to which the Prime Minister and myself have also referred, said it at some point about certain attitudes of some descendants who did not understand the role of religion in Danish society in relation to democracy. It was kind of just what I kind of wanted out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130320	Well, thank you for that clarification. Then I would just have hoped that the Minister of Integration, and the Prime Minister, had said that we have great challenges with the interpretation of Islam, and that the rabid imams here in Denmark have a duty to give way, rather than to say God. Otherwise, I feel that the Christian community here in Denmark must suddenly be punished for something that they have not done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130337	Then it's Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130341	Thank you. I was also invited to take the floor, and I think I might have to repeat some of what I said when I myself stood on the platform. I am now in Aarhus and have therefore also been in Aarhus. Gellerup during the election campaign, and I have absolutely no knowledge of any cooperation with my own party, nor of Enhedslisten having it. As I said earlier, what I was at least aware of was what the Bydelsmothers had arranged and there were parties from the whole spectrum that could be represented. I therefore simply have to ask: what kind of evidence does the rapporteur have for radicals and Enhedslisten to have made some strategic cooperation with some mosques to encourage them to vote for us?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130436	For me, it's very clear. There are some mosques who actually go out and organise electoral meetings where it alone is for red parties. You go out and point specifically to the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left. In fact, was this something that the rapporteur went out and distanced himself from? Because that would be a good way to say: we don't want to work with these mosques. If there was a rabid imam who went out and said that you should vote for Marcus Knuth from the Conservatives, then I would react very quickly and say that I would have nothing to do with that. I know these meetings were conducted without a single word of criticism from the Radical Left or the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130513	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130514	It is just to make it clear first: I have actually, when I learned that there might have been some meeting and I haven't heard of it during the election campaign or anything said that I would always call for as many parties as possible to be included. I think it is only an advantage to have different views clarified. But I would like to hear: where did Radicals and Enhedslisten say that mosques should call for us to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130549	I say that the mosques have been out recommending the Radical Left and the Enhedslist, and these meetings were held where blue parties were not included. I think that is fairly clear in virtually all the media that have described it very, very critically. Well, this was a massive criticism of the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left during and after the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130606	Then it's Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130609	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am pleased that the rapporteur nuanced or clarified the interpretation, etc., but I would like to know whether the rapporteur can clarify it further. Because I agree with the rapporteur that the extremist environments and rabid imams and such things we must fight • one hundred percent • but does the rapporteur believe that it is the majority of Muslim citizens in Denmark who have that interpretation or that it is the minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130648	Of course, what you hear from the rabid mosques and rabid imams, etc., the Jewish hatred and the women's repression is something that I think most people are easy to distance from. However, in my time as rapporteur for the Left, I went along with, among others. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party and asked the Minister of Education to conduct a study of what is of social control in schools. Now I don't have the numbers here in front of me, but it was scary to hear how extensive it was. It was down in primary school that young girls from the Muslim environments were not allowed to have Danish friends, that young girls were not allowed to have leisure activities. So, unfortunately, it is not just a few crazy and rabid imams, but there is a social control that goes far into the ordinary Muslim environments, in relation to how especially young girls may or may not behave.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130740	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130742	I thought the answer was a little ambiguous. On the one hand, I heard the rapporteur say that it is not the majority and, on the other hand, I hear a longer explanation about the fact that it is not the minority either. But we have a citizens' survey that we do every year in Denmark, actually launched by Mrs Inger Løjberg, which speaks a very clear and clear language, namely that it is actually the minority, and we have to go after them, and we have to do something about that. But just to get the proportions right, I would like to say that it is a very, very small minority of Muslim citizens who actually have this crazy interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130826	I agree with that. The total insaneness of Jewish hatred etc. I hope that a few, at least a few, will say so. But the extensive social control, especially with women, and the view of freedom, the view of Danish values, is therefore something that goes far beyond that. A few days ago there was a study which was at least mentioned very, very clearly in Berlingske and which again also tells how difficult it is for immigrant women in Denmark, and it is therefore not just a few rabid imams, but it is quite common everyday society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130902	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130903	Thank you. I have a question for the rapporteur on secularisation, I think I will call it that. Does the rapporteur agree with me that when Kasem Said Ahmad appeared in a picture with Pernille Skipper we all know him from the Mohammed crisis, and then when he was out backing up an imam who was in favour of stoning women during which he had written that it was their number one in Copenhagen, there is a pronounced problem in separating church and state in this environment, and that maybe that is the main reason why integration on long stretch lags?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117130953	I would just like to say that this is another good example of this. Now the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten believes that there has been no cooperation at all between the Enhedslisten and these environments, but this is a very good example of that, so thank the rapporteur for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131007	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131008	I don't have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131010	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131012	Following on from the discussion about whether God has a duty to give way, secularisation, etc., I think it is to be said that what the rapporteur also mentioned here is not about faith and democracy in general. It is about Islam and the political part of Islam in relation to our democracy, freedoms, etc. And when it does, it is because we have a religion, Christianity, where from the very beginning it has been said that one should give Caesar what Caesar's is, and God what God is, and because in Islam one has a religion of law. I agree that Judaism is also a religion of law, but in the Islamic interpretation it is estimated that the words in the Koran are words sent down from heaven, from Allah, directly to the Prophet, and that they can only be passed on by the Imams, and therefore a great deal of judgment is placed in relation to the decisions that one makes in one's everyday life with an imam. That is where the problem arises, for the critical sense of our part of the world is placed with imams and the religious ones when you profess this political part of Islam. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131128	After all, the rapporteur is at the heart of some of the fundamentals, namely that in Christianity and Judaism we have a religion separate from the real community of law, and that is not in Islam. This is, of course, a major challenge for many of the environments that exist. One can take Iran as an example of how it came about and where the priestly regime took over it, because all legislation must come from the Koran. It is the same with Saudi Arabia, etc. There are also so many areas around the world where there is a more moderate form of Islam. But it is the cornerstone whether religion should come from the legal text or from the Koran.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131214	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131218	As a follow-up to this, I would like to know whether the rapporteur, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, will help us to focus on the political part of Islam, because when we talk about Islam, as if it is a religion like everyone else, we are hitting freedom of religion and the restrictions that are in relation to it. However, if we stick to the political part of Islam, that is, Islam as an ideology, one could not imagine that when we attack its influence on our society we could actually avoid imposing general bans on religious symbols and stick to the fact that the political spearhead of Islam, for example. wearing scarves in primary school is something that we would like to get away from our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131309	I'm not quite sure I understand the question. But when it comes to imams, which go out and say that legislation coming directly from the Koran, that is sharia, fits well into Danish society, it is something that I have gone out and criticised very strongly, and I have also received a certain counter-reaction, one might say. Compared to scarves, etc. I have been one of those who went out and very strongly said what I thought about burkas, which are now qua masking bans in Denmark. So I think we are talking about the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131341	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131342	Thank you. I have asked for the floor to be allowed to work in the service of information, because there has been a lot of discussion about this electoral meeting in Aarhus. It is written in an article in Berlingske on 10 June 2019 by journalist Christian Birk. The title of the article is "Tross society recommended thousands of Muslims to vote red" and the story is about the Mosque of Freden in Aarhus, which held an electoral meeting only for red parties, where the imam then recommended voting on Radical Left and Enhedslisten. So it is not just a fantasy fetus that pops out of the rapporteur's head.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131419	Thank you. I am very pleased about that, and since you don't have your phone up here and you can google things, it's very nice when someone can tell red parties that what they say is a little crooked, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131432	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131446	Thank you. I would like to start by apologising to the President, to our Prime Minister and to my colleagues. I was late for the debate, and I did so because I was sitting in the Ministry of Justice where we are starting the police conciliation; we got some information about the process and so on. I think we have had this debate some times in the Chamber once a year. And, of course, we would like to take any opportunity to take a value-political debate, but I would like to start by saying that the alternative does not share the premise of the question debate, which we have today, namely that immigration forces Danes to change their way of life and behaviour, that the way of life of the Danes is threatened. I think we may have different understandings of, or that we do not agree on, what kind of threat that is out there. Several people have stood up here on the platform and said that they are worried about one thing and the other, and we also share a concern on the part of the alternative. We are also concerned about Denmark, but what we are concerned about is the way in which we think we are compromising our freedoms at the moment and that what is about Danish liberalism and freedom is actually under serious pressure from what we have seen in the past. The preface to today's debate is that immigration forces the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct them. That is what the question text says. And it is on the basis of what the Danish People's Party wants to have the debate on values, that is, that we are forced to correct, and that we are forced to force the Danes to do something. I simply do not recognise it. First of all, because virtually all new dancers are struggling to become part of our community. The fact is that integration is a success. According to Hjarn Borberg, 97%. by non-Western persons never committed crime. And crime in 15 of the so-called vulnerable residential areas has fallen by 30%. For the last 10 years. Non-Western youths train as never before. Yes, we see reports showing that minority dancers, minority girls, are actually overtaking ethnic Danish girls in relation to education. In other words, we are not just going the right way, we are going towards the goal of integration. Secondly, I do not recognise the premise because we live in a democracy. Denmark is a democracy. And it is a democracy based on freedom. Freedom is essential to me in our society. It is the freedom to say what you mean and to mean what you mean. Freedom is also to mean something other than what I am now saying from the platform. Freedom is also to believe what you want. And freedom is being who you are. Danish democracy also gives the freedom to create a good life and the freedom to work and have the opportunity to train and become part of meaningful communities. So we share a concern, but my concern is not about the freedom of others to live as they please in order to impose something on everyone else. It is obvious that freedom does not allow others to be restricted. My concern is different from that of the question. My concern is that we no longer all have the same rights, but that we start to introduce different rights and different laws for different people, that we are not all talked about and to, as if we have the same value as citizens of our society, but that there are some who have to rush back home when they come up here. I'm worried about burka laws. I'm worried about handshake laws. I'm worried about the ghetto package, the jewelry law, etc. etc. So what are the values we want to hold on to? For the alternative, the choice is clear. We do not believe that Danish values are under pressure. The Constitution, our democracy and our strong, strong culture cannot be overturned or affected by few extremists who do not want democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131859	There is a question from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131902	Thank you for the floor. We often hear that in Denmark we are no longer treated equally; that is nonsense. It has always been the case that there are rights that you have when you are a Danish citizen or are resident in Denmark, and then there are rights that you do not have when you are not a Danish citizen and are not legally resident in Denmark. Now we hear the argument again from Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique, and that is why I think Mr Siddique. Sikandar Siddique owes it to tell us what rights it is that Danish citizens in Denmark do not have as Mr. Sikandar Siddique says when you belong to one or the other group of people. In other words, what rights differ from one Danish citizen to another within different groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117131953	It is not something we just hear about; it is a fact. I can give you some examples of concrete legislation: we have the ghetto package, where the ghetto criteria for getting on the list are ethnicity. We have a double sentence, you live in one area, one law applies to you, and if you live in another area, there is another law that applies. It's a fact. Well, it's not something I think it's a fact. I have just given the rapporteur two examples of the lack of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132030	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132031	That was an answer which shows that the rapporteur simply does not understand what the rapporteur is talking about. It has always been the case that we can geographically have different conditions in different places. The trade law is a very good example. So when there are specific rules on how to behave in different parts of the country, and when there are specific requirements on who can have a publicly supported housing in different parts of our society, it is nothing new, and so there has always been. The authority of the municipalities has been there. This isn't about geographical rights. The rapporteur said that there were certain groups, i.e. groups of people, who lack special rights in our society. The rapporteur has still not answered that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132118	I think it is Mrs Pernille Vermund who has difficulty understanding the democratic principle of equality before the law. I also gave another example, which was about the ghetto criteria to get on the ghetto list. You are also assessed on the basis of ethnicity. That's a clear example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132144	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132146	When the Mosque of Peace in Aarhus goes out and makes a voter meeting for red parties alone, where the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left participate, and you may even then go out and recommend the two parties, is that something the rapporteur supports, or is it something the rapporteur wants to take a clear stand against?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132205	I am a fierce democrat, I am one hundred percent in favour of freedom and democracy, and I do not want to interfere at all in whether anyone will vote on one or the other, not at all. If in a church, a congregation, an association, a mosque there are some who will vote for the Radicals or on the Enhedslisten, as is said here, I cannot interfere with it; it is a free country, a free society. Of course, I would personally feel that if there were some mosque, for example. The Grimhøjmosque, or something that an extremist forum supports, would disapprove of it. But I will in no way interfere with the democratic right of people to vote for what they want or to recommend what they want. I simply cannot interfere with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132300	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132301	I really think that's head-shaking. Here you have a religion that would like to be apolitical and that goes and says: you who sit over here are not welcome, but the two over there you, if you are good Muslims, must vote for. That is absolutely absurd, and I hear it correctly, so the rapporteur supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132322	No, that is not true, because now the rapporteur put in a bee-bye saying that you should vote for them, because they are good Muslims, that you should vote because you are a good Muslim. Now, that's something else. The first time the rapporteur asks me, the rapporteur says that some people have said in an area or in a mosque: vote on the Enhedslisten. It's one scenario, but in question no. 2 puts the questioner in a bedding called: Vote because you are a good Muslim. That's different. You have to vote because you're a good citizen, you have to vote because you're a Democrat. That is why you have to vote, not because you have some religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132358	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132415	Thank you. We live in a time when Koran bricks adorn the street picture, when the military is guarding the Jewish synagogue and when Islam critics live with constant police protection, a time when foreigners are significantly over-represented in our crime statistics, where non-western immigrants and descendants have an annual feature on the public coffers of more than 30 billion. kr., and where an increasing proportion of young people with a non-Western background believe that religious laws should be above democratically adopted legislation. We owe it to each other to strengthen the values that generations of Danes have built up before us and that we are obliged to pass on. Decades of failed immigration policy have wasted confidence between the Danes, and when confidence weakens, we become poorer, less free and more insecure. That's what's happening. In order to maintain confidence, freedom and security, we must demand that foreigners respect our values, respect our laws and contribute financially to the community. Foreign policy must be resolved from the bottom up, a stop must be put in place to obtain spontaneous asylum in Denmark, foreigners must support themselves and criminal foreigners must be expelled. Our Danish community of values and trust among us are a prerequisite for our welfare society. It is our common values, the solidarity between the Danes, the feeling that we are one people who make us willing to share with each other. When we like to pay taxes to secure each other in difficult times or difficult living conditions, despite the fact that we are not related, that we do not know each other, that we may be geographically living at different ends of the country, it is because we have a feeling that we know each other's values. We have the same culture, on the same basis of value. But our common values are under pressure. For nearly 40 years we have let hundreds of thousands of people into our country who do not share our values, and unfortunately many never come to that, people who put the subjection and consideration of Islam above the consideration of the Danish community of values, and who believe too much that we as Danes should bow for the sake of Islam, Islamic way of life and Islamic standards. Many politicians have naively believed that in time the visitors would become like us and take our values to heart. Sadly, the many were horribly wrong. That must and must be corrected and we must do it now. It is a responsibility that lies with our generation and we cannot allow ourselves to pass the problems on to our children. The problems of unintegrable immigrants from Muslim countries are getting worse year by year. Decades of patchy solutions simply do not work, the problems are becoming ever bigger, just at a slower pace than before, and we are consistently left with poor choices between iliberal solutions or Middle Eastern conditions, because the root of the nettle is not being grasped. It is time to reverse developments and solve the problems from scratch. If we do not reverse the trend now, everything else can be equally important, for then the foundation of our free and secure society crumbles, and Denmark changes forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132812	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132819	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was quite a frightening speech from the rapporteur, at least in my ears, and I just want to hear: does the rapporteur recognise that the vast majority of minority citizens live completely according to Danish legislation and contribute to the community? And, like the rapporteur for Conservatives, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that it is the minority, in other words a minority, with which we have problems and where, of course, we have to find solutions to them and not live with them and accept them. Does the rapporteur recognise that the large majority actually contributes to the Community and lives in harmony with all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117132907	No, I do not recognise that the vast majority live in harmony with Denmark and Danish values, because when we see studies of how many people think that one should, for example, prohibit drawing what Muslims call the Prophet Muhammad, it is a very large majority who mean it. When we look at a single vintage of immigrant men with a non-Western background born in 1987, it is almost half of those who, as a 30-year-old, have been convicted of crime almost half of them. Here we have not even added, how many of them are then on public support, and how many of them there are on top of it as in the first survey says: We should not have full freedom of expression in Denmark. As long as there is no overall study showing the parameters that are being asked for here: Are you sure that they are not criminals, are you sure that they are contributing financially and are you sure that they are buying into all of our democratic values?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133023	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133024	I just think it is a dangerous path to go down, not to believe in it, and that is how we can all suspect ourselves, including in this Chamber: who believes in what? I think that is a completely wrong way to go. The starting point must be that if you are not convicted and if you are doing your job and caring for your family, then we believe that people want society. Hjarn Borberg, an external lecturer at the University of Copenhagen, is in the book "Integration." I will give you a few figures from the book: boys and girls are rushing up on education, crime has been falling over the last 10 years, fewer minority citizens live in general housing, the citizenship study shows that there is not much difference between support for democracy, the basic law, freedom of expression between minority dancers, i.e.. immigrants and descendants, and ethnic Danes. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council. ) Well, then I didn't reach the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133119	I know the postulates of the person concerned, and I would say that he is full of something that I must not say here on the platform. For these numbers, you can always wave as you want. If we take one of them, that is, that crime is generally falling, then that is correct. There are fewer crimes leading to conviction. But there are several perilous crimes that are reported, and when we look at the curves of Danes and people with non-western backgrounds, the fall among Danes is relatively greater than the fall among those who have non-western backgrounds. And that means, if we talk about integration, that the difference, the gap between how you manage as a Dane in relation to crime, and how you manage when you have a non-Western background, has grown. And that is why the problems have become relatively worse. So that man is the kind of man that Özlem Cekic loves to use and that I would like to argue against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133216	Thank you. The proposal for adoption must be read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133222	Yeah, I'm sorry. New Citizens have a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that immigration from Muslim countries has put Danish values under pressure and that the current immigration policy will not solve the problems, but on the contrary will mean that the problems will get worse and our common Danish values even more exposed. The Danish Parliament notes that in order to reverse developments, the roots of the nettle must be addressed and the policy of foreigners must be resolved from scratch: the right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. In order to ensure that Denmark, as the Danes' country based on Danish values, will also be there for our children and grandchildren, it is necessary that it conducted policy leading to the Muslim share of the population falling and not rising. It is also crucial that Danish citizenship is not still granted to immigrants who do not share Danish values. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133321	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has now been read out, which will be included in the continued debate. Then there's one more question from mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133333	Thank you. Following on from the question that was just raised with reference to a discussion book, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that this is a special way of calculating crime by saying that if you are convicted under the criminal code, for example. On 30 December, you're a criminal, but on 2 January you don't count as a criminal anymore. Does the rapporteur agree that this is a rather curious way of dealing with quite serious crime? That is one question. The second question is whether the rapporteur agrees that it is also a little strange that in an interview in Weekendavisen, the author of the debate has said that he does not regard having a conditional sentence as evidence that something criminal has been committed. It was just the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133413	I fully agree with that. If we are not to say that the author of this debate book is full of what I am not allowed to say here on the platform, then I can say that he is certainly a very alternative. Because it's the case that when he fights crime, he says that you're only a criminal in the year when you're convicted. This means that on January 1st right after midnight there are no criminals in Denmark. It's hopeless. You can't talk about things like that. If you do that, you are telling people something that is not right, and that is the problem with them sitting on the side of the Alternative and putting out a discussion book that has no other purpose than to be a distraction for some real and serious problems in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133501	Thank you. There are no more questions. We thank Mrs Pernille Vermund and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, who is the last rapporteur, at least before the Prime Minister is due. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117133519	Thank you for the floor. The Western model of society is totally superior to all other models of society. This applies economically, technically, scientifically, philosophically and morally. There is nowhere else you are better protected if you are poor, if you belong to a minority, or if you are in some sense deviant. And what about Denmark? In my view, Denmark is one of the best variants of a Western society, if not Denmark is actually the best variant of a Western society. Many statistics and studies point to this. Many of the best features of Denmark are that we interpret international phenomena in our own way. Right now, while we are sitting here, we interpret democracy in our own Danish way. If you take an education, you experience the Danish interpretation of the information, and if you go to church on Sundays, you experience the Danish interpretation of Protestantism. That is why, of course, we should not have profound changes in society that do not have very broad support in the population. That is why, of course, the Aliens Act of 1983 must always be regarded as one of the most illegitimate decisions that the Folketing has ever made. After all, it is responsible for most of the evils caused by mass immigration from the Middle East. I heard the Prime Minister say that we should not be relativistic, and I fully agree with that. We should not be relativistic in relation to our Danish and Western values. They are better than everyone else, and that is why we should not give way when we are asked, directly or indirectly, to compromise. We must say 'no' to that. But we also have to say that this has happened. Time cannot be turned back, 1983 was a long time ago. Then how do we move on? I think it is important to take as a starting point the fact that all countries in Western Europe have the same problems of immigration from the Middle East. It simply has nothing to do with the policy that has been pursued in individual countries. Sweden, France, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and ourselves have pursued a very different policy, but the same problems have ended up. The extent of the problems depends on the size of the quota of immigrants that has arrived. But I think it is important to have knowledge and precision in the use of knowledge. We must know the harmful Islamic variants of Islam, and we must, of course, fight them. There is also broad agreement on this. We need to know the authoritarian, violent aspects of culture in the Middle East, for example. the violent patriarchate, and of course we must also be critical of them. It must be difficult to get from the Great Middle East to Denmark, and in a wide range of areas there are curves that need to be broken. It would be desirable to have a national compromise to determine what sort of curves should be broken and what deadlines should be, and then get started. Some of them have been mentioned: crime, lawlessness, poor employment statistics, oppression of women. There is enough to address, and it would be good to be concrete and have some common objectives on how to solve this. We are not in favour of illegitimate changes to one of the world's best societies, and so we thank the Danish People's Party for having raised this debate. I also think it is appropriate to congratulate Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard personally for having been one who led the debate, since very few, apart from the mayors of Western Denmark, dared to do so. That is a good thing and that is why we are in a relatively good form in Denmark today. We are in favour of the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Mads Fuglede has already read, and I thank you for the floor, and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134014	There are no questions, and that must be because the rapporteur's speech has been good. You have to assume that. But now it is the Prime Minister, and then Pia Kjærsgaard has said that she would like to speak after the Prime Minister to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134031	I will be brief, because I think that the rapporteur's speech by the Liberal Alliance was extremely accurate in terms of both the scale of the problem, but, in fact, the debate today is also a very good one, because it has actually been a very good one. I would like to welcome two things in particular. I would like to welcome the fact that there is broad support for the importance of sticking to Danish values. It is in the question of being firm that the crucial thing will come to pass; it is not whether you subscribe to Danish values or whether you think that Danish values are a good thing, but it is whether you want to stand firm on them. And there is broad support for that. That brings me to the next point, namely that there is broad support for strict immigration policy, and that is very, very good. Because that is the prerequisite for us to be at all and we have no control over integration, and it is simply no use that we continue to stand on this platform for some people and say that things are going well, because things are not going well. We have examples of how things can go well, fortunately, but when you look out your window when you move around the country, when you work with justice policy, employment policy, health policy, economic policy, equality policy, you can see that integration is not going well. A great many of the challenges facing our welfare society today are there because we have not had control of the immigration policy, not because of everything else, not because of everything else. Therefore, the recognition that we have to keep track of the number is crucial to whether we can hold on to the Danish values and thus hold on to it. And that is where I very much agree with the last thing that was said. We are a very good society and the European western values are the best values, and that is why I started by saying that you cannot be a relativist. Because you can't fight for Danish values and claim that all values are equally good. The other way round, you should not imagine that some of what is good in Denmark are the only ones who have. Fortunately, there are some of the fundamental values in our society that we share with many others, and also with some of those who have come here fortunately. There are many nuances in this, but I really think that much of the principle that has been said today has been the most important thing. And yes, religion matters, and that is one of the points that has also been raised in the debate. When I say from here that God has a duty to give way, it is not the Christian God, but then it is religion. We can then have a longer theological discussion on concepts, but I hope that Mr. Marcus Knuth entered the Chamber that we hold to what I think is absolutely, absolutely essential and fundamental for Danish democracy, namely that it is the people's government that decides and makes decisions in Denmark. It's not religion. What we have shown in Denmark is that you can do both. You can have a strong, living democracy while you have your religion, but it has to be in the right order. This is, of course, linked to the fact that our own primary religion in Denmark, which is Christianity, has undergone a significant change over the past several hundred years, which has taken the law out of Christianity and handed it over to us who sit here, who are democratically elected. What is left, so to speak, in our Christianity is the values and beliefs that are not the law. And there we are challenged, because some interpret Islam and practice Islam in a way that is not compatible with a democracy, because one always goes back to the Koran, which has to define how people live and how people are in relation to each other, and there is no room for that in a democracy. So when I use the concept of the thief stolen from our rapporteur, I even think I came to call him a new rapporteur in this area, because he who was rapporteur in the past has now become a minister, but what has been said is still wise: it is to mark that in no way, if one wants democracy, can one accept that religion is above democratic decisions, and that is whether it is the view of children, social control, the sight of the sexes, or what imams should interfere with. And it is incomprehensible to me that we have allowed a development to take place where imams think they should have opinions on divorces in Denmark, and that is one of the things I would suggest that we continue working on from here. Because divorce is a legal measure and it is an end to a marriage, and an imam should not interfere in it at all. So I do not really want to worry about much of this debate, because I think it has been good and I think many, many wise things have been said. The only thing that can upset me is that we are not able to make a joint proposal for adoption. In fact, the Folketing should agree to fight for Denmark, to fight for Danish values and to stand firm on the basis on which we have built one of the world's very best societies, but there are enough explanations as to why it is not possible to do so, so I will let that pass and will urge that we go further along some of the different tracks we have mentioned today. In concrete terms, now that we are just having a new study showing that there is systematic repression of women in our society, my suggestion will be that some of what we are addressing here is this divorce issue, because we need to put an end to that. But thank you for a wise and good and proper debate. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134607	Thank you. There are a number of questions and the first is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134615	Thank you, Prime Minister. I fear that there are many minority citizens out there who work hard for the community and work hard for their family, who will be sad to hear the statements of the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister says that integration is not going well. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister of all of us, whether she is of the opinion that most of our minority citizens and now we are talking so much about Islam and Muslims, so I would like to specify it further and say that our Muslim fellow citizens in Denmark are actually contributing to the community and practicing Islam completely according to Danish legislation and democratic values, and that they are in no way a problem. Is that the view of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134712	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134714	I am not going to be able to explain how everyone is doing in our country, but I would think that many minority citizens are more ashamed of the minority citizens who are destroying it for the vast majority than they are about my speech. In fact, I believe that the tiredness felt by many of us in this Chamber about people coming from outside and not behaving properly and not respecting Denmark, we share with many new citizens who are just as damned about fireworks against firemen, gender-separated swimming or social control of classmates. Much integration works, but it cannot be said that integration is a success without taking into account the nuances, for example. in the area of crime and women's oppression and, above all, in the area of financial challenges. So I think that both truths belong in order to give a full picture. It is my clear impression that many Muslims in Denmark too are doing well here, have taken Denmark to heart and take responsibility for our society, but I cannot say this without pointing out that in 2015, for example, in connection with the terrorist attack. Too many people showed up for the funeral of the perpetrator, and unfortunately this shows an opposite picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134831	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134837	I do have two questions, but now I have to repeat: I asked whether the Prime Minister was of the opinion that the majority actually lived in harmony with the Danish rules, legislation, democracy and so on. 'Cause we're gonna have to have proportions. Was it 150 minority dancers or Muslim Danes who traveled to Syria? There are 300,000 Muslims in Denmark. It's just to get proportions in things. That is why I would like to say that I am calling in the debate, and very much from the Prime Minister, for us to address things as they are, for us to say it as it is. Let us say out loud that the majority is doing very well. And then we also have problems: crime problems and women who are not in work, but they are a minority, and we have to work on that. But let us speak more loudly about it. I believe that many minority citizens expect from a new government and from our new prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134931	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117134933	I think that this is the way to put too much emphasis on one leg, and I think perhaps the rapporteur may have a tendency to put the emphasis a little too much on the other leg. Because I believe that if we are to give an honest version, we have to have both dimensions, and we must not leave the Danes with an experience that there were a few hundred who traveled to Syria and that that is where we have the problems of radicalisation, because I think it is much more extensive. What is happening in part of the mosques, what is happening in crossover crime between gang activity and radicalisation, the excessive support for the perpetrator in connection with the terrorist attack, social control and repression tells one story. ♪ And then ♪ ♪ and then
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135024	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135026	Thank you for the floor. Now it is always such an unfortunate situation to stand on the floor of the Parliament and be asked questions about the number and the large majority or the smaller majority. Because when you're standing there, you don't have the numbers around you, and if it's not something you've just been sitting with, it can be hard. That is why I think I shall come to the help of the Prime Minister in a single area. We often talk about either crime or contributions in the labour market, and I suppose the Prime Minister knows these statistics. There are also studies that say something more fundamental about whether there is support for our democratic values, for example. our freedom of religion and our freedom of expression. The investigations carried out by the resident Muslims, which are about whether to restrict freedom of expression for the sake of Islam, we saw it clearly, as the time has passed after the Muhammad crisis, that a majority of the resident Muslims believe that freedom of expression as a democratic value must give way to religion, for the sake of Islam and the prophet of Islam. So it's just to come to the rescue of the Prime Minister. Studies show this if we are talking about democracy, of which freedom of expression is a part, and about Islam, which is the religious issue here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135147	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135148	I believe that one of the experiences that has most impressed me in this tension between integration, Danishness, democracy and minority views was when I visited a high school in the west of Copenhagen, immediately following the terrorist attack, after myself having participated in the funeral of the two victims. There I had a discussion with a number of students about the terrorist attack, and then there was a student who stood up and said: "It wasn't a terrorist attack; it's just your usual racism and attacks on Muslims. And then there was a significant part of the students who applauded a significant part of the students who applauded. What is it? Can it be caught in an investigation? It is, of course, a snapshot that shows how far we can stand apart, and it is, in my view, also almost the worst thing we can do to the society we are now part of, not to recognise what radicalised Islamism has of negative importance, both in concrete terms for the people it is going through, but also in terms of how it puts itself in our society. So much goes well with integration, but it cannot be said that there are still enormous challenges and that we need to solve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135309	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135310	Thank you. Now Mr. Sikandar Siddique that the Prime Minister is the prime minister of the whole country, and that is quite right. As a result, I think it is due to say that the Prime Minister is also the prime minister of the immigrants and descendants who are in the country and who have actually taken our values to heart, but as we heard from Mrs Halime Oguz from the SF in the past to a great extent, that being Danish, taking Danish values into account is a bigger battle, not because you think it is only difficult, but because there is a counter-pressure from those people who share your cultural background and who say that being Danish is a bad thing. So I just want to hear from the Prime Minister about the commitment of being Prime Minister, not also, of course, and I suppose, of course, that the answer is 'yes', is about safeguarding these rights for those who have taken our values to heart and taking the extra blow we have to strike so that the repression does not continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135409	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135412	In fact, getting into the discussion is an incredibly important element. Because I think that what we old Danes or ethnically original Danes, or whatever it is called, forget, is how difficult it can be for the woman who wants to enter the labour market; who will not speak her mother tongue but will speak Danish; who wants to vote down; and for the young man who does not want to marry someone the family thinks he should marry. And that's how I could go on. In that battle one can only stand in one place, and it is on the side of the progressives, and thus fight with them against the oppression or the old culture that holds them to something that is not compatible with Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135458	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135501	Thanks also to the Prime Minister for the clarification as to whether God is obligated to give way or not. It may quickly become a little theoretical and a little theological, but the clarification that the Prime Minister gave me was good and accurate, otherwise we could feel that it was our Christian faith that had a duty to give way. I am glad that is not the case. Then the Prime Minister says it is a pity that we cannot agree on a common proposal for adoption. I would say that what we have done is one that everyone can see themselves in when it comes to the challenges that some of us at least and the Prime Minister agree with us. However, I know why the Social Democrats are not included in our proposal for adoption. That is because we are just going in and criticising the higher benefits to refugees, as everything else equal makes it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. Well, it does, doesn't it? So when the Prime Minister says that we are a majority in agreement with this, we are not, after all, because social democracy goes out and makes it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. I just wanted to point that out. One thing we've discussed a lot today is this mosque in Aarhus that invited the red parties. You pointed out the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, but the Social Democracy also took part, at least according to Berlingske, and is that something that the Prime Minister supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135613	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135615	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135620	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135623	I'm glad to hear that. I could at least read that it was four red parties, I think, who took part. True, it was not the Social Democracy, the mosque pointed out that we should vote for, but there was a red electoral meeting where, according to the media at least, there was participation of social democrats. But that means that if a similar situation arises where a mosque invites only red parties to a meeting, it is something from which the Social Democrats will distance themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135641	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135642	I think one should be extremely careful in his cooperation with a number of the mosques that are in Danish society, and I say a number because the mosques are different. But one should not be blind to the fact that part of the radicalisation we have seen in Denmark also originates from some of the mosques. I also think that there is a discussion to which we will return, namely the financing of the mosques in Denmark, and the conditions that apply here. And I can't understand, for example, when there is an imam who says and calls for hatred of Jews or the distance to Denmark, that everyone who is in the mosque doesn't stand up and emigrate. Actually, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135728	Then it's mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135729	First of all, thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth to clarify why it has been a little difficult to make a proposal for adoption that we could all see ourselves in, because we have these different views on what benefits mean for this area. But I really want to come back to it with a fair and realistic policy on foreigners, that is, the programme that the Social Democratic Party has drawn up, on which it is based, that there must be a reception centre outside the European Union, and that it will be sought through the EU track, but also in the programme writes that if it is not possible to do so, then it is preferable to do so alone. Now we have had that debate about a reception centre outside Europe for 30-40 years. Are we not about to be there, that now we have to realise that we are not going to do so much further, so now it is time for Denmark to go alone to get such a reception centre done? And how far are you with these plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135828	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135829	Firstly, I choose to ignore the polemic and think that when the questioner asks a question as the questioner does, it is out of a sincere interest that we actually get this done; that is how I choose to take it down. I could cheer at how little was achieved in this area over many years of civil rule, but I really do not want to, because I think that both the Left and the Social Democrats know how difficult this is, but also how important and right it is to work in this direction. After all, we have intensified this work considerably since the elections and are well in the process of a number of different tracks, not least at the European level, and I am not there where I am willing to conclude on anything yet, because we are also experiencing some sensitivity from several places, not necessarily in relation to the concrete model devised by the Social Democrats, but the idea is becoming more and more, so we are continuing mainly on a European track.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135923	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117135924	But there was no controversy intended, and I am sorry if it appeared that way. We think it's exciting thoughts. We worked for an exit center ourselves, which of course is something other than a reception centre, and found out how difficult it is, even if we chose a bilateral track; so it's not something you do easy. I'm asking you out of sincere interest. We have had this debate for a very, very long time, and we agree that it is time to have a whole new system and that it is best if we get it in a larger forum of countries, but that we may need to do something alone if we sincerely believe that we need to think about completely new things in this area. It was simply to ask whether we are not about to be there, that we are doing something, and whether it is a reception centre or an exit centre, I think is one great thing for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140008	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140017	On the one hand, we have a greater sensitivity to the new Commission in the European Union than I think we have seen in the past, and on the other hand we have entered into more bilateral talks with a number of different countries, where I also see a momentum in this discussion. I would like it to go faster and I would like there to be a broader European recognition that the current system is dysfunctional and that we therefore need to start over and make a whole new one. It's going to take some time, but we're on the ball; that's almost the best answer I can give.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140044	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140046	The Prime Minister mentions that integration in Denmark is not going well, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister. If you ask the Left, one of the ways to solve is not the whole problem, but some of the problem, to get more people with a non-western background into the Danish labour market, into the Danish canteens, into the Danish jobs, out to the Danish colleagues. But the Socialists do not agree with the Left on this. For the policy pursued by the Socialists, since the Prime Minister has become Prime Minister, has been to raise social benefits and target them for unemployed refugees and immigrants. So now an integration benefit family gets 2,000 kroner. extra each month tax-free so as not to become part of the working community, and it makes so fewer people get up in the morning or at night to go to work. Could the Prime Minister in all his wisdom explain to me how integration increases when fewer refugees and immigrants participate in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140147	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140150	That is actually an interesting observation. We have had 4 hours of actually quite substantial and serious political debate, and then someone comes into the debate that has not been here for 4 hours and asks a question which I think is relevant, but just on that background where you can be such a bit... It is fair enough to have a discussion about benefits, and we have had it for these 4 hours, but to stand up and claim that I should not be concerned about people getting to work is simply nonsense, and that is not right. If you read the terms of reference on which the Service Commission is based, there is exactly the opposite. It says that it should encourage that it should pay off to work. We do not just want to raise the benefits. It has been made revenue neutral because the Social Democrats do not want to raise benefits and because we want more people to get to work. We have put forward a proposal which does not yet receive any support, unfortunately, that you will then have to work 37 hours a week to get a benefit at all. I know the Left has only problematized that proposal. We have the same headache. We've had government responsibilities in turn for many years of modern Danish history and haven't broken this yet. It might be that we should spend our time actually trying to solve it, and I do not believe that benefits should generally be increased as some people want. At the same time, I just recognise that we have the challenge of some children suffering some deprivation and that we have to solve both things, and that is the work we have set out to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140307	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140310	I would like to repeat what the Prime Minister said just now to Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Mads Fuglede, and say that I choose to disregard the polemical part of the Prime Minister's reply, and then find that the Prime Minister is not responding at all. So I just ask the Prime Minister again: how does the Prime Minister think that raising social benefits for unemployed refugees and immigrants, so that fewer of them become part of the working community, improves integration? Then I would recommend to the Prime Minister to speak to his Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration about what the Left has actually said to the proposal we have not yet seen about 37 hours' work for certain foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140340	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140344	In other words, it is now me who has raised the debate about 37 hours' duty, and I have seen quite a lot of answers from the Left in this matter and can also see that it was not carried out during the previous government period, even though it had a great many years to do so. Now we have taken the first decisive steps in setting up a Service Commission, and I would like to say again: I do not think we should simply increase the benefits. I have probably also come to the conclusion that it is not even enough, when we speak Danish values and integration, to ensure that everyone gets into employment. It's a very, very important prerequisite, therefore, the idea of the 37 hours in order to be able to receive a benefit at all, but the fact that people get to work is not even enough to secure the Danish values. For some of the problems that we have been discussing here today: radicalisation, social control, lack of support for democracy... are in fact also living with people who are in employment. So that's not even enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140431	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. And it seems to be the last round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140434	Then I shall be very brief, although it was very tempting to have a debate with the Conservative People's Party and the Left through the Prime Minister, but it will of course be a little silly. So I would just like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that it is true that we do not have a common proposal for adoption today, but fortunately we have a common understanding paper stating that integration is an objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140500	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140504	That is quite correct, and we are very happy with the understanding paper. We are also pleased with the focus on integration. It can be said that what we need to work with some other parties on is, of course, to have a handle on the overall immigration policy. I say that directly, and all parties here know that. Because you can't just settle for one. One cannot say that integration is important if one is not willing to have control over how many people come here, whether it is asylum, family reunification or foreign immigration at all. On the issue of citizenship, I would say that some of the problems we are suffering from today exist because too many people have acquired citizenship before we tightened the rules. There is, of course, a reason why, at this time, we, too, from the government, are doing everything we can in relation to Syrian warriors. This is because some of them have acquired citizenship they should never have had. Because of international conventions, we cannot just take it away from them, even if it would be incredibly nice if we could. For Denmark is no longer their country and should not be. However, I can confirm that we have a good understanding paper in relation to the intention of integration, and we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140613	Then there are no more questions for the Prime Minister. We thank the Prime Minister. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party, to conclude this very good and important debate, which has been very informative, at least for those who have listened to it. It was a very interesting debate on value. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117140631	Thank you. The President has been sitting here for a few hours, so we have to take note of that: it has been interesting to listen to. It's very reassuring. However, I would also like to say thank you for the debate that it has been going on for a long time. I think there has been reason for us to have spent a few hours here today, on a Friday, discussing this important issue. I have to say that we were almost falling around our necks at a time when it looked as if we were almost all agreed. I think that the Prime Minister said it was almost the end of the story that we should then clap our hands, despite the fact that it seems that eight or something have been put forward in this style of different proposals for adoption. Finally, Mrs Lund said to the Prime Minister: well, yes, but we do agree that integration needs to be taken care of; that is what the understanding paper says. And then the Prime Minister replied: Yes, we agree on that. I have another understanding of it. The Prime Minister didn't say it, but perhaps the Prime Minister thought: we should have written in too that the number mattered. Because that's what it is. But it's nowhere on that understanding paper, and things belong together. I would also like to say that early in the debate I was asked by the Social Democratic Party whether the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party could cooperate on this. We can do that. We can do that with everyone, of course. We would very much like to do so, and I have to say that I think, after all, that we have gone a step further, but we have not gone far enough at all. Of course we're not. A great many issues have been discussed, and what it was all about here was value policy. Value policy is quite comprehensive, but I would still like to mention what not only we in Denmark, but also others in the Western world, and what is so important to us: solidarity, equality, industriousness, tolerance, freeness of speech, etc. etc. It is very, very important that there is a special level playing field for men and women. It has also been much debated during this debate. We have also asked: Well what does it mean, that is, where is the positive part of immigration to Denmark? It was the Socialist parties in particular who were asked about this. I understand that it was, and I can hardly repeat it, but still, a hip-hop culture, but it was actually said from the platform, and there was a little more about karate and stuff like that. Mrs Lund said that there had been a much greater understanding of culture. I must say that is a multiculture. Yes, Mrs. Rosa Lund nods. We have become a multicultural society. It has to be said that this is what we want and that this is what we have been working towards, and it also seems to be successful, unfortunately, with both a multi-ethnic and a multi-cultural society. That's why we have to take action. We simply have to take action in relation to this. Let me just add something in relation to what was enlightened and I sat and saw it on my iPhone about the article in Berlingske, as it was well put on the table, about the Mosque of Peace in Aarhus, yes, where the Social Democracy also participated with the other red parties, but not with any of the so-called blue parties. In fact, it says that there was also a Copenhagen mosque where it was urged directly to vote for certain candidates. It is not in the article who it was, but it is under all criticism, that is, it has nothing to do with democracy and freedom. I think that's pretty scary. Because here we can decide for ourselves where we want to cross, etc. A great many studies have been carried out in relation to this subject over the years, and they have been carried out at many levels, in many different areas. I would like to mention a few that would then still be said from someone's side that integration is going the right way and it is almost succeeding. I don't think so when you look at many of those studies. For example: There are many more men among immigrants and descendants than there are among Danes who believe that men have priority to work ■ not women, but men have priority to work. The study also shows that immigrants and descendants believe to a much greater extent than Danes that the public, and I think this is interesting, should ensure a fair standard of living for every citizen. In fact, it is up to 75% who fully agrees with that statement, and then you can say that only 45%. of the Danes agree. Well, you can think about why it's like that. Then there are the different views of the different sexes, which have been a major part of the debate and which I also think is something very, very important, because we are free-minded, we are in favour of equality between men and women. 17% of ethnic men and 14 per cent. of ethnic women, i.e. people of other ethnic backgrounds, believe that women themselves, if they are challengingly dressed, are subjected to sexual abuse. That's fucked up. This is really fucked up. That's 5%. of Danish men and women who share the same opinion. That's about. 5% Too many. But it's different anyway. 22% According to the study on homosexuals, ethnic men do not believe that homosexuality should be accepted by society. There it is only 3 per cent. by Danish men who share that view. That's also 3%. Too many. So there really is and I could go on, but time just doesn't allow me to do it, unfortunately very many topics where we see very, very different things, still gone, and that's what we're working on. What we are working on is that we are in favour of the same standards, the Danish values. Finally, I would just like to say that there are two things that are, as it were, left to us and that we can have new debates on, I think. One is what the Prime Minister said, namely that it is the Constitution that is the most important. I fully agree with that. But we just have to recognise that there are some conventions that do not say the same thing. I think we should tackle this at some point, and I think that is something we should continue to work on and perhaps have a question on. The very last thing we have discussed is this 36 billion. kr., as published immigration costs. I think it's starting to be a little older, so it could also be that we had to start a new one to get the real facts and figures on the table. It's always good for politicians. But thank you for the debate. It's been a long time. But I think it has been good, very good, and all parties have participated on a Friday like this. It's really nice. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117141258	We thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and thank you all for having done a good job in this debate. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place only on Tuesday 21 January 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200117141318	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 21 January 2020 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Parliament's website.
