ParlaMint-DK_20200603100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: The Minister for Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 200 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200603100024	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 June 2020. For the explanatory statement of the question, Mr President, it is first the rapporteur of the questions. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603100048	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for allowing us to have this question debate, where we, together with the SF, have called the Minister for the Environment to discuss and discuss generational pollution and the other soil pollutions, which unfortunately we have far too many around the country. This is also an area which I believe is of concern to all of us, at least to our two parties, and that is why I would like to begin by commending the SF and thanking them with Mrs Signe Munk at the forefront of this matter for their cooperation in promoting the cause. We believe that we owe it to future generations to speed up the clean-up of not least the 10 so-called generational pollutions, but also the other around 37,000 potential soil pollutions around Denmark. It is or may at any rate be a ticking bomb under our good, clean Danish groundwater and at potential health risk for the many people living locally and close to the pollutants. It is a task for which the regions are primarily responsible, but given the scale of the task, it also requires national involvement if we are to succeed in fulfilling that task. That is why, of course, we also need the government to take action in this matter. This certainly seems to be an important area for the government, and we are pleased about that. In any case, the generational pollution is mentioned in the so-called understanding paper as a priority, but now it is the case that words do not do what is required to do alone. But after several consultations here over the last six months and a number of different committee issues, the government has not really acted yet. There have otherwise been opportunities: two economic agreements have been concluded with the regions here by last week; a financial agreement has been concluded, but no additional funds have been allocated for this purpose. It is merely a continuation of the money that the previous government found for the task. So much for promises and understanding papers, but of course the environment does not notice that, and that is why we have just called for this request, so that we can also get the government's more concrete proposals on what it needs to do so that we can get more work done on the big task ahead of us. Now we cannot push it forward any longer with reference to lack of plans and lack of political support, because both are there. The Danish Regions delivered such a plan earlier this spring, and the political support is in any case also present. So no more excuses; now we want to see some action so that we can make a comprehensive priority effort to clean up after the generational pollution and the other minor soil pollutions, but which also have a very, very important environmental aim. I look forward very much to the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603100354	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then we move on to the answer, and that is the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603100406	Thank you. Today we have 10 generational pollutions. These are major soil pollutions which, unfortunately, have arisen at a time of much more relaxed environmental regulation than the one we have today. The soil pollution law, which was introduced 20 years ago, brought an unconditional responsibility for polluters, so that soil pollution, which has occurred since 2001, is dealt with in accordance with the polluter pays principle. However, when the soil pollution law was passed back in 1999, we were already faced with many thousands of pollutions that had to be handled by the public sector, and it was clear that it would require both a large and long-term effort. Denmark's five regions are responsible for dealing with soil pollution. They must identify, investigate and clean up where necessary and give priority to cleaning up the worst pollutions first. The generational pollution is characterised by cost-effectiveness and by the fact that the purification typically takes many years. There is no easy or simple way to deal with pollution. The regions spend nearly half a billion dollars a year on soil pollution. Some of the funds go to the generational pollution, but a large part also goes to the many other pollutions, which also have to be dealt with. But even with such a large amount of funding there is also a necessary priority on the part of the five regions. It is always about selecting the soil pollution that must be dealt with first, because they pose the greatest threat to our groundwater, lakes, streams and coastal waters, nature or human health. Danish Regions define generational pollution as the soil pollution estimated to cost more than 50 million. kr. to handle. Danish Regions estimate that the cost of cleaning up all generation pollutants will cost about 2.7 billion. kr. Hopefully, this can be done cheaper as new technology develops, but in any case it will cost a great deal of money to clean up all 10 generational pollutions. But it is also money that will have to last for a long time, for some of the pollutants in the future, because it is simply not technically possible to clean up the pollution in a short time. Since I took office as Minister, I have visited two generation pollutants, Grindsted and Himmark Strand, and I have also met Bjarne Hansen from the Høfde 42 action group, so I have met some of the people who live close to the pollutants and who have told me about their concerns about the potential impact of pollution on their local environment, nature and health. Generational pollution is very different in terms of its composition, its spread and its acute threat. There is also a great difference in the level of action taken on individual generational pollutions. For some of the pollutants, prevention solutions have been established, while others are monitored because there is no acute threat, and then there are those where pollution leaks into a stream or in groundwater. On the one hand, it is deeply worrying to see and hear about generational pollution, and on the other hand, of course, it is also good that municipalities and, of course, regions in particular are doing and have for many years made a great and commendable effort to investigate, assess and take action against the threats posed by major pollutions. I am also confident that the regions will be able to carry out this great task sensibly. Having said that, however, it has also been clear that there has not been a single priority plan across the regions for precisely the generational pollution, and that is why I have said earlier on the same subject that the regions must draw up such a plan. It must be a plan that sets out professional priorities for generational pollution and priorities for generational pollution against the other minor soil pollution, which may pose greater threats to the environment, so that we ensure the most environment for money and that is the expertise of the regions. The aim was and is to establish the basis for transparent priorities and future planning of action. I myself met with Danske Regions and discussed the need for the regions to put together a comprehensive plan for their priorities and management of precisely the generational pollution. As I see Danske Regionser's plan, the knowledge we have about the 10 generation pollutions today is summarized, and this is a starting point for us to be able to take further discussions on what is necessary in relation to the generational pollution, so that we have the most environment for money and so that we take care of our health, environment and groundwater as best we can. The government has maintained the region's stable funding for the soil pollution task, which is up to nearly half a million kroner a year. The 2020 Finance Act continued the efforts decided by a broad circle of the Danish Parliament's parties in May last year. That effort was initially about adding 60 million. kr. to the pollutions at Grindsted and Cheminova in 2019 and with the allocation of the agreed additional 40 million. kr. in the two pollutions this year, the parties behind the Finance Act ensure that the initiatives initiated can be followed to the end. In addition, the government has given the MUDP programme a big boost so that 134 million are allocated. kr. in 2020 to, inter alia: projects in the field of soil purification technologies. Two completed MUDP projects at Høfde 42 are good examples of how new techniques can help clean the soil easier and cheaper than before. But we also need to focus on other important things. Residues of pesticides in our drinking water are another challenge we face. So-called pesticide point sources are one of the causes, for which the regions are also responsible. The regions have come a long way in mapping the places where most pesticides have historically been used, for example: at machinery stations and nurseries. In addition, I have launched a mapping of the challenges facing our groundwater with a view to a comprehensive plan for better protection. And then the government has just concluded an agreement with Danske Regioner for a strengthened and continued systematic action against soil pollution that threatens surface water. It is an agreement of a total of 65 million. kr. additional to the regions in 2021 and 2022, including: As part of the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, so that we can all bathe and fish in waters that do not contain toxic substances. The clean-up of generational pollution is an important issue and such a major task that it cannot be dealt with within the current appropriations. As I said, the government has started work on prioritising the management of generational pollution, and this work continues, including finding the necessary funding. This work will, of course, be carried out on the basis of the professional priorities of the regions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101112	Thank you very much, Minister. It is the case that now each of the general rapporteurs has the opportunity to ask one question, and first it is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101122	Thank you. After all, the Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, in her opening speech here on the platform, said something about the generation contract, that we should leave nature in a better condition than we have been given to the next generation. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister agrees with the Prime Minister that we should not let the next generation inherit these pollutions that we should actually take action and act and that we should find the means to prioritize and clean up these generational pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101158	I think we have an exceptionally wise Prime Minister, and I very much agree with what the Prime Minister said in his opening speech, namely that we need, of course, to take good care of our nature. And that also applies to the whole task we are talking about today, namely the soil pollution that we inherited and where, unfortunately, we had environmental legislation which did not ensure that the polluter paid and which, of course, means that we now have to clean up these pollutions for public crowns. That is also why we have written it into the understanding paper between the government and the support parties that we have, among other things. Yes, Enhedslisten, that it is a priority that we manage and clean up the major generational pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101247	I can see that Mai Villadsen has asked for the floor again, but it is the case that in this first round there is only one question per question. rapporteur. Now it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101253	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and also thank you for a speech in which I see the government moving. I particularly note what is absolutely crucial in this debate: recognition and recognition that the task of the ten major generational pollution cannot be carried out within the current allocation for soil pollution; additional funds are needed. This is absolutely crucial because when the day is over, when we have talked and talked, this is about crowns and ears, because it costs money to clean up. Yet there is something the Minister for the Environment says that is shattering in my ears, and it is that the Minister for the Environment keeps sticking to this approach, where you have to see the ten large generation pollutions together with 37,000 other pollutions throughout Denmark. If you ask SF, that is exactly what we need to separate, because we have a separate priority in terms of cleaning up the ten major generational pollutions, and next to that we have some important tasks in relation to the thousands of smaller soil pollutions. So I just want to hear the Minister: why does the Minister think it is meaningful to hold on to that confusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101404	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101405	I also fully recognise that this is the position of the SF, and we have just written in that it is important for all of us to manage and clean up the major generational pollutions. When I say, however, that it is of course important that we take as our starting point the professional priorities of the regions, and also in the task they have today, where it is their expertise to look at the soil pollution that we have, and look at where there is a risk to human health, to our environment and to our groundwater, it goes without saying, however much the pollution is, that it is a very important point of reference for the regions, because we must also ensure that we have the most environment for money. So that is why I have said as I did, but I also recognise that this is a point that we may be looking at a little differently. At the same time, as the rapporteur said, we also recognise that it is clear that if we are to clean up the generational pollution that we have and which is huge, it will require extraordinary funding, and that is what we have also talked about in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101509	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101510	Thank you. Since this is a priority, perhaps the Minister could tell us what that means, that it is a priority. Because, as I understand it, this was also a point that was included in last year's financial law negotiations on the current financial law for 2020. It is certainly not the case that the government can say: there was no political support for our policy; we simply could not get it through; there was no majority in favour of it. In other words, it must have been the government that has said no to increasing efforts beyond what the former VLAK government had allocated money for 2020. So can the Minister explain to me why the government did not choose to dedicate additional funds to this point on the Finance Act for this year, since it is now a priority, as I understand it, and as is also shown by the understanding paper, which the SF has also been involved in negotiating and thus also helped to influence the direction in which it now lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101612	I would like to try to say something more about that. It is clear that, as I said myself, we have written in our understanding paper that it is a priority to deal with and clean up the major generational pollutions. I have also started this work and have just met with Danske Regionser and asked them to draw up a plan. Because I must also say what it is: when I took over the post of Environment Minister, there was no complete plan in the drawer in relation to the generational pollution. There was no funding available to list generational pollution. That is why it is quite natural to start working on it, and we have done so. And then, under the Financial Act of the year, we have set aside 40 million. kr. to the generational pollutions at Grindstedværket and at Cheminova. And that is one of the things we now see actually makes a difference in relation to, for example, technologies around Høfde 42.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101719	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101724	Thank you. Now the Minister must remember that when the Minister stands on the platform, the Minister must speak the truth. It is simply untrue to say that the previous government had not dropped money. It was in fact the case that the previous government and the Danish People's Party had set up as much as 600 million. kr. In the agreement reached on the regions. So that's not true. It is so true that the current government did not agree, and that is why everything was closed down. But the previous government and the Danish People's Party had dropped money, so I think that the minister should apologize from the parliamentary platform, that the minister said that no money had been set aside, because it was there. Then I would like to ask the Minister something quite different. We are talking here about 2.7 billion. kr. over a period of 10-12 years. That's about. 270 million kr. a year. These are pollutions that are back from the 1950s and 1960s. If you are sitting on a very, very strong green mandate, it was not just putting the 270 million. kr. of over the next 10 years, so that you could clean up after the sins of the past? It is absolutely true that it is the ten largest associations, and then there are other pollutions that need to be dealt with. But these pollutants are pollutants that we know are leaking, and therefore the previous government and the Danish People's Party had also dropped money off, and the current government has not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101828	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101830	I fully agree that one must, of course, speak the truth from the platform, and so do I. But what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is alluding to is that the regions would be dismantled, centralised in Denmark, and this was thought to be the case. But there was no plan to clean up the generational pollution in Denmark. At least I haven't seen that paper. So if the rapporteur has it, he is very happy to send it to me. So I am curious if the rapporteur thinks that it is an easy task how the Danish People's Party would like to finance it here. We say openly and frankly: it is, however, also true to what we have written in the paper of understanding, namely that it is a priority, and that is why we have set that work in motion. And money has also been set aside on this year's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603101926	Thank you for that and we thank the Minister for the time being. We shall now move on to the negotiations themselves, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Jacob Jensen, Left. We're gonna make it all with the right speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102009	Thank you. I'm sorry. That was just the speech I was going to make. Because it's important to get the right messages out. As I said, I am very pleased that we can have this debate here, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his answer, which I regard as one, what should we say, at least recognition of the fact that there is a great task that we must share with each other. This is not something you can just push into regions or municipalities. This is something that we in the Danish Parliament must also be a part of. First of all, we have the ten large generation pollutions, which are an eternal source of insecurity among local residents, because what does that really mean? Is there a leak? Are there health risks? How in relation to our aquatic environment? What does that mean for our drinking water it etc.? There are many questions. One of the well-known examples is Grindsted Works, and a public health report has been published in Grindsted, where it was feared that the risk of having a large number of diseases was higher in Grindsted than in the rest of the country. Fortunately, according to the report, this is not the case in that area, so thank God for it. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything. We cannot be served by allowing local populations to go around insecure for decades wondering if they are now becoming ill with drinking water. It's not okay. And that is why it is not only to mention the ten generation pollutions, which are of course the largest and therefore also the important ones: there are therefore 37,000 other reasons identified throughout the country, where there may also be pollutions of a greater or lesser degree. And, unfortunately, this is a figure which seems to only increase as more reasons are examined. That is why the focus must also be on both the allocation of funds, but also on efforts in relation to both generational pollution and the other soil pollution, so that we have a comprehensive national effort to clean up these various soil pollutions. The regions are responsible, but they do not have the resources to do so alone. The government's understanding paper also states that clean-up after generation pollution is a priority, as is the previous government's efforts in this area. There, too, the current government party was typically reviled, and there has been no shortage of opportunities for the previous government to live up to the promise. As I mentioned in my introduction, there have been two economic agreements, last week at the latest there were no funds allocated for this. And a budget law has been drawn up which did not allocate funds beyond the resources of the previous government. That is why we believe that something more and something faster needs to be done, and every day that goes by, we run the risk that more and more poison will flow into our nature. That is why this question has also been asked so that we can get the government's bid and the government's response to what we can do. And an effort would, of course, run well with the policy that we have at least stood for. As you know, we set aside 60 million. kr. and 40 million. kr. in 2019 and 2020 respectively. And we concluded what René Christensen also mentioned before the election an agreement with the Danish People's Party to add another 6 million. kr. over 10 years. Would that have been enough to do the job? No, it would not, but it would have been an important step in the right direction. And now we have, one must understand, the greenest government in man's memory... so if you ask the government yourself. And in this area it has resulted in nothing for the time being. That is not good enough, and that is why we have the question today: to go one step further. Because if the whole parliamentary basis does not think enough is being done, then it is the government that has to give a different priority to putting action behind its words as well. And if the government does not want to do so, then the rest of us must try to take the initiative, and that is also why today's question calls for that opportunity. I hope, therefore, that there will be a majority in the Danish Parliament, and I am quite convinced that there will be a strong commitment to maintain the pressure that must be exerted so that we can move forward quickly for the sake of the environment and nature, and not least for the sake of the people who live in the areas close to and adjacent to the many soil pollutions, large and small, and thus have to live with the consequences of the uncertainty and insecurity about what this pollution could potentially have. I look forward to the continued debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102446	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102449	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, which I agree with very much along the way or almost entirely in fact. I also fully agree with the rapporteur when he says that words do not do it alone; action must be taken. I hope we will succeed. That is also why we have written into the understanding paper and the basis for the government that something has to happen, and I am, in fact, glad that a large majority in the Folketing wants to put that pressure on. But the reason why I am here is that the previous government, in which the rapporteur's party was at the forefront, managed to find some money: 60 million respectively. kr. and 40 million. kr. That's $100 million. kr. Together. It's a long way from 100 million. kr. to the 2.7 billion. kr., as the regions estimate, this will cost to clean up. It's really far. So my concern is if the power changes and we actually get the funds set aside, whether the Left will then continue that task, or whether we will go back to perhaps setting aside 100 million. kr. Not at all what is enough or whether there will again be a proposal for the regions to be closed down in order to find the money. What does the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102604	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur who is allowed to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102605	Of course, you might think that, and that is also what I myself tried to be a little humble about that the funds that we allocated physically to the Finance Act were not enough. So I said that myself was not enough to solve the task, and no one has claimed that, including Mrs Mai Villadsen. But that does not mean that we should not do more and that we should not continue to do that. It was like the clues we tried to lay out both with the Finance Act and in the agreements that were made, which could not then continue after the parliamentary elections. So, yes, we will certainly continue to do so, and that is why I do not know now whether I am revealing a state secret that there will be a proposal for adoption a little later, in which we are also involved, in which we are urging that we be bound both ourselves as a party, but also everyone else who is included in the proposal for adoption, to ensure that we continue to do something for the reasons I have mentioned: uncertainty in the local areas, environmental impact, disease risks, etc. So yes is the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102706	Mrs. Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102707	Well, I'd just like to sign for that, and by the way, I'd also like to say that humility dresses this hall every once in a while. But I will take it as a guarantee that the Left will continue the ambitious programme we hope will be put in place to clean up these generational pollutions by the majority. So I have a clear expectation that if the power changes, the Left will also carry out this task equally ambitiously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102733	I am not the chairman of my party, which is why I cannot dictate exactly what the position of the Left should be, but I can at least guarantee that I will do everything I can to support it. I am almost sure that I can say on behalf of the President of the Left, because he himself has been sitting with this area and was actually the one who got these things started, including the millions of kroner dropped off in the current Finance Act, that it is the position of the Left. Then, of course, you can discuss how quickly and at what pace it should happen and where to start and something like that, but we know that there are places where you can simply start. So this thing about saying that now you have to have one more plan and it has to be given a slightly different priority, I think is a bad excuse. There are places where you can get started. So it's just about doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102811	Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102813	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Now I think we can agree that we should not decorate ourselves in this way with borrowed feathers or oversell our messages, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur for the funding that was provided by the VLAK government in relation to cleaning up the generational pollution. Was it real money, or was it an estimate, an estimate of 600 million. kr. Over ten years, which should actually be due to the laying down of the regions, i.e. these very regions, which are today a very active player in these pollution cases, and where politicians are elected very close to the population and answerable to the population? Was it real money, or was it an estimate? And was it not really an expression of centralisation, in other words of shifting responsibility away from the regions and to some boards of directors far away from the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603102910	Well, I can just refer to the agreement that was reached before the elections. There you might think that if you make an assessment of what it will have to do with the financing, it is an estimate, and then it is not real money. Well, we make every day in here deals where we estimate and say that this has it and the economic consequence. After all, it is some of the country's best economists who assess this in the Ministry of Finance and elsewhere. So that is what I can refer to. That is, of course, what was before the elections, but we fully recognise that there is no majority in favour; but that does not change the fact that the task is still there and we must find other ways. That's why we're saying, listen, we've been trying to drop this money off. We have also put real money on the 2020 Finance Act. It is the only money on the Finance Act that is actually working at the moment. But we would like to continue working on that. And then we also hope that the government and, by the way, a majority in the Folketing will be in favour of this and I think that is quite possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103001	Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103005	Thank you for your answer, and thank you for your honesty. I mean, it wasn't real money. Some have called them matador money; I do not need that term. On the other hand, we cannot agree that the 40 million. kr. in the Financial Act for 2020 is real money, which the current government has also brought forward, in other words, that it is money that we have actually put into funding? And is it not also true that the 55 million? kr., the current government has allocated for 2020, 2021 and 2022 to the regions relating to surface water, is regular money? And is it not also true that the 134 million? kr., which we give to a boost of MUDP, is real money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103045	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103048	Well, I think that the environment will benefit from the fact that something is happening actively. Then, of course, you could say that we're gonna set 40 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work. They are then adorned with, as Mr. Troels Ravn says. I don't know, because it's money that's there. And that is more than the current government has dropped off on the Finance Act. In other words, there has been no new money on the Finance Act other than the money that was there from the previous government. But I haven't really come here today. I'm sorry, I'm saying it a little square to discuss where that money comes from and who has ownership of it. Others may have a much greater interest in this. The environment has no interest in it at all. The people who live around with these pollutants have no interest in it at all. They have only one interest and one interest, and that is that something is going to happen and that is what I am also standing here to ensure that something is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103136	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103137	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. In order to stay a little bit in what the Socialist rapporteur is asking, we have been counting on dynamic effects since there was a social democratic government with Bjarne Corydon as finance minister: when you do things that release some money, you can finance it. You didn't do that in the past. That was when we had a Finance Minister who was from the Left, where it was: where does the money come from? It must be financed crown to crown. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there was 0.5 billion? kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr., which was completely clean money taken from the box, and thus reached 600 million. kr., and that it's a much higher amount than the current green government has set aside to clean up these pollutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103222	Yes, I can fully confirm that, and it may not come as a great surprise, because that was the case. As I also said in my reply to Mr. Troels Ravn, we can easily do that, too, in the media, we can certainly fight about who has done the most and such things, and there I have a clear conscience, because I feel like I can stand up for what we did. However, as I said before, and it was also for Mrs Mai Villadsen, I am also humble in that we did not do enough. I do not think anyone has tried to tell anyone else that we did enough, but we did something, and yet we did more than what is happening now, and that is why we have this question, so simply to keep up the pace and keep the pressure on the government at all times. Now it is the Socialist Government, and that is also why it is they who are responsible for pushing this process forward, and if you do not want to, then you have to resort to other means, if you may say so. That is what we are trying to do with this question, namely to obtain a majority which can, as it were, push in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103315	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103316	Yes, and the situation is different now. For now we have the plan from the regions, and now we have the ten-generation pollutions under control. Not all of us are 100% ready to get started, but with some of them you are, too, with the technical solutions that are needed. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, just as it was asked earlier, when this is so important and when we know where the pollution is and when we know what the tools are going to be, if I also hear that the Left, if one day the Left should get power, is ready to carry out these clean-ups. And I would like to say that it is the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103351	We are, and I also think it is essential enough to have a priority that is also why Danske Regioner has made that plan, and there can probably be more priorities and find out where to do it. But I just don't think you should use it as a constant excuse to say that we do nothing. Of course, as the Minister for the Environment says, there she stole my slogan, but the point is that it is not the case that nothing can be done until we know completely down to the last slogan, where we should start and where we should end. There are places where we can just start, and that is what we are trying to call for, i.e. if we should not continue the efforts that have already been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103425	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103426	I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this debate and, above all, for joining forces in inter-political cooperation to raise the debate. This shows that this is an area in which there is broad support in the Folketing, at least among us environmental rapporteurs. That is why my question is, and quite frankly, what is really the crucial issue for all of us; whatever party we come from, we environmental rapporteurs can agree that it is important here that we are sure that our financial rapporteurs will drop that money on our financial bill in a few months' time. That's what I'd like to ask, sir. Jacob Jensen about. Can we expect this effort to be on the Left Finance Bill when you present it in a few months' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103511-2	In other words, it would be strange if we were to vote in favour of a proposal for a resolution which includes funding and action in an area, and we then say three months later that we do not mean it by the way. Well, now you can ask Mr. René Christensen on how it is in the Danish People's Party, i.e. whether the environmental rapporteur agrees with the financial rapporteur. I think you are, since it's the same person. Of course it's a little bit said with a glimpse in your eye. But, yes, Mrs Zenia Stampe is right that this is an environmental issue and that it is also something that needs to be addressed at the big table. Each of us must, of course, take care to do so, but I assume that when we hold debates in this Chamber for open carpet and open camera and pass official agreements, we will also stand by it when we sit at the negotiating table. I do not know whether we are being invited to finance negotiations, so I think that it is probably more Mrs Zenia Stampe, Mrs Signe Munk and Mrs Mai Villadsen's table, so it is probably the three parties that have to push. But we are absolutely at the disposal of the heart to push on this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103609	Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103609-2	Yes, but every party with respect for itself also presents a coherent financial act, even if you are not sitting on the crucial mandates. I just think it's so important that when we sit as environmental rapporteurs and some of us are lucky to have both hats, as well as being honest about what this is all about. After all, it is also a matter of cross-priority, and that is precisely where we should be able to be sure that what we can agree on in this circle is also what we can agree on when we send our party leaders in at the big round table and the cross-cutting priorities must be carried out. That is why the last question is: how much can we expect to be dropped on the Left Finance Bill for this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103650	I am not going to pretend to say anything about that, because then I think I will get my ears in the machine, but I would say that the Left already devoted money to the green transition and, incidentally, to the green action on the environment to the financial bill that we presented in the autumn of 2020. Then, of course, we can discuss how much must then go to one and the other, and that is precisely what Mrs Zenia Stampe says, a priority for many different initiatives. I fully acknowledge that. I myself am also a former financial rapporteur and have been involved in several financial law negotiations, and I am well aware of the calculator being used over there. But I just think that most of the people have the impression that this is a priority for the government and for the support parties, and when it is, there is also an expectation that something will happen in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603103746	Thank you to the SF and thank you to the Left for taking the initiative for this inquiry debate. This is an important debate we have. It deals with an issue that is of particular importance to our nature and the environment and to many people, including to me. When I go to the Speaking Chair of the Folketing, it is always with a sense of humility and excitement, and not least that is the case today. For generational pollution, the sins of the past, a relic, an environmental disaster from a time when people might not know better, is a subject that has occupied me for many years as a citizen and a politician. So there is something special at stake, not least because today we have the opportunity to take an important step forward politically, to correct and adopt, at the end of the debate, an agreement text in relation to the biggest pollution cases in Denmark, so that our children and grandchildren will not have an even bigger bill than the one before us today. We cannot defend the fact that these pollutions are passed on to future generations, as they have passed on to us. The generational pollutions, the pollutions that are the greatest and most expensive to clean in Denmark, are soil pollutions that are exceptional, not only in scale but also in terms of the requirements they impose on handling. These are pollutions which, of course, occupy a great deal in the local consciousness around the country and are the subject of wide-ranging public debate at times. Everywhere these pollutants are a disgrace to the environment, and the local population must live with them lying right outside the door. I myself come from an area where there is a generation pollution, yes, in fact there are two of them: Kærgård Klitplantage and the factory site after Grindstedværket. In Grindsted the case is that there are tons of toxic chemicals just under a large urban community. Residents in several neighbourhoods have just received a letter from the municipality stating that the use of garden drilling is not permitted due to groundwater contamination. It says: You cannot water your vegetables with water from your own borehole, and the children cannot take a water battle because there is a risk that groundwater is in contact with pollution from the tab that runs in groundwater under Grindsted town, from the factory grounds, the former Grindsted plant, and to Grindsted Å, and if you pump up garden water, you risk not only spreading the pollution, but you can also help to draw the pollution under Grindsted town closer to the upper layers of the soil under your house and the neighbor's house. That's what it says. In Grindsted it is also not recommended to bathe in the lake and the river for health reasons, just as it is not advisable to eat the fish that you as an angler can pull out of the water. This is environmentally and ethically very problematic, yes, it is no less than a scandal that anno 2020 can be given such a picture of Denmark from Grindsted, a half-large town in the province, where otherwise it is nice to be where I myself went to the local gymnasium in its time, and where people are happy that a recently completed patient study under the auspices of the Region of Southern Denmark fortunately documents that the population of Grindsted does not have a greater frequency of serious diseases than people elsewhere in the country. But it is also a place where people, well helped by a very active and capable citizens' group and a Region of Southern Denmark with politicians and environmental personnel who are really making a clear and good effort within the financial framework that has been set out, are so impatiently waiting for concrete projects to be set in motion that can clean up after the great soil pollution. Fortunately, there is also light in the dark and reason to believe that we can do something and get rid of the generational pollution. It seems to me that in recent years there have been several important events and actions pointing in the right direction. And excuse me for using Grindsted as an example again, but it has been crucial that Denmark Technical University in February 2018 could publish the place at Grindsted Å, where vinyl chloride and other toxic substances from the soil contamination leak into the stream. And immediately after that, the Region of Southern Denmark started planning a pilot project which, with mitigation measures and barriers, means that hopefully the actual cleanup of the water can start in 2022. In the context of the pollution in Grindsted and at Cheminova at Harboøre Tange, it has also been of great importance that a broad majority in the Folketing and the previous government decided in 2019 to allocate a total of 100 million. kr. for purification. It was important to recognise that in addition to the 430 million. A further and separate allocation for the regions to clean up generational pollution will be provided for each year in order to combat soil pollution cases. Last but not least, I believe that it is a breakthrough in dealing with the generational pollution that the Socialist Government, together with its supporting parties, produced a paper of understanding in which it is written: Furthermore, it is a priority to deal with and clean up the major generational pollutions. I know that no government in the past has expressed anything like this and assumed similar responsibilities. President. - Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104312	I think it all came with us. Thank you so much. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104318	Thank you. The rapporteur himself lives close to Grindsted pollution, as the rapporteur also says. All the more wondering about the major shift in the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament from the opposition to the view that this was a major problem I have also seen the rapporteur visit Grindsted pollution several times until now in government. Then you talk about it as a problem, but you don't act in this area. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically whether the rapporteur does not find it rather embarrassing that we now have a government that has made not only one, but two economic agreements in which zero kroner has been allocated to this area, and a financial law has been drawn up, where zero kroner has also been set aside for this area. So there have been three major negotiating complexes around the economy, where targeted money could be set aside to clean up after generational pollution, and nothing has been set aside. The only money you stand and lean on is the 100 million. kr., of which there are 40 million. kr. this year, as the Minister for the Environment can say, that there is and that the previous government has deposed. So why aren't you acting in this area, sir? rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104426	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104428	First of all, there are the 40 million. kr. in the 2020 Finance Act, and that is real money that this government also finds, and in addition there are the 65 million. kr. to the regions for work on surface water and the 134 million. kr. to the lift of MUDP. The understanding paper, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is of course an obligation. I have not previously heard a government take such a responsibility by writing that it will prioritise, manage, take responsibility, find funding for the clean-up of generational pollutions. When I compare directly with the previous government and with the funding that the previous government, close to its departure, found, it was an estimate which should be based on the setting down of some regions and centralized and shifting responsibility from elected politicians, then I clearly prefer our model.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104532	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104532-2	Well, I understand that the rapporteur does not answer the question and simply ignores it, because it is a really embarrassing matter that the rapporteur has. After all, the rapporteur has stood with the citizens of Grindsted before the elections and said that when a new government came, we would clean up, and now zero kroner has been set aside in the economic agreement last year, zero kroner in the economic agreement this year, zero kroner in the first finance law that the government made. It's embarrassing. In the previous government, we didn't just talk about this. Together with the Danish People's Party, we set aside up to 600 million. kr., of which 100 million. kr., which also lies on the Finance Act, respectively last year and this year, for clean-up. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur: when is this government going to start acting on this and not just talk and write about the problem, but take care of the generational pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104615	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104617	In a few days' time, this government is celebrating its 1st birthday, and the government has actually achieved a great deal, even in the environmental field, far more than any previous government and by taking this responsibility in relation to the generational pollutions. No other governments have written that you want to deal with and you want to prioritise and you want to take responsibility and you want to find funding. We also have a debate today in which we will shortly have to agree on an agreement text, in which we also clearly express our support for an additional allocation for these generational pollutions. It is a far greater step than has been seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104654	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104656	How can it really be that there should be a question debate on where a broad majority is supposed to express the wish and demand that there should be additional funding for this area before the government acts on it? I'd like to get an answer to that. It is quite right, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby says, that this is the case. Then I know that Mr. Troels Ravn mentions that it is very important that it is in the understanding paper and that it is such a commitment. Oh, I remember the last time the Social Democracy was in government, where there was something with 12 minutes and a payment ring and lots of other things you had committed yourself to, but it didn't seem to be doing anything either. So that is why we are standing here today with a hopefully united Parliament pushing the government into action. Well, then, sir. Troels Ravn does not agree with me that words in an understanding paper do not mean that it is action in the local areas that makes the difference for the people and for the environment affected by the pollutions we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104751	Now it is not many minutes since the rapporteur of the Left himself stood up here and answered a question from the House as to whether the Left would bring this into the forthcoming budget negotiations and how much money the Left could bring in something like that at any rate. I can ask the same question. And the answer given by the rapporteur was rather hesitant. The rapporteur could not say that, because we had to take that up, and the pace and priorities had to be discussed and so on. In this comparison and in comparison with the previous government, we have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of in the present government. I have also publicly stated, as Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby has rightly said, that it is a breakthrough that the present government writes in its paper of understanding that one will deal with, one will prioritise and one will clean up after the generational pollution. In two days, we'll be celebrating 1st birthday. We've made a lot of progress. This is a commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104848	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104849	Well, what actually happened? Well, you've written it in an understanding paper now. But can people in Grindsted and the surrounding area feel it? Did something happen? Can you tell by the other nine generational pollutions? I'm just asking. So, what is it that you can feel after this government has been sitting for almost a year now and that it has been written in an understanding paper? No funds other than those set aside by the previous government have been set aside. So what kind of initiatives have been taken that make a difference to the citizens of Grindsted if we take this as an example?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603104920	We helped find the 100 million. kr., where we saw here from 2020 have also found the 40 million. kr. of the 100 million kr. Among other things, it has. A pilot project was launched in Grindsted to clean up leakage by the river. To conclude this debate today, I would like to say, without prejudice to the course of events, that we have made it quite clear that an additional and separate appropriation is needed to finance the clean-up after generational pollution, in addition to the funding of 430 million. kr., the regions already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105000	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105002	Thank you. It's just a little, yeah, disturbing, because this isn't a new discussion. I was just finding a consultation we had in the Committee on the Environment and Food on 31 October 2019. There was Troels Ravn among others. there, and so was Bjarne Lausten, and the waves went high on that consultation. And I could see that Troels Ravn challenged the then Environment Minister something: now, for example, money must be set aside for Grindsted, for it is now and the rapporteur says today that they have written the most beautiful paper in the present government, never such fine words have been written, we have never seen that before on a piece of paper. What's happened in Grindsted for the last 12 months?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105043	Well, now is the time to get started, and now is the time to get started. Unfortunately, I had just underestimated the time available to me in my rapporteur's speech, but otherwise I would have ended by saying that we can take an important step today. At the same time, we should not be blinking people's eyes either, because there will be a lot of years to go before one day, hopefully, we will have cleaned up. Because we still need to get rid of strict priorities, and not least negotiations on the finance laws, where DF and the rapporteur also have to come in and put on the table, exactly how much money the Danish People's Party will contribute to the sale. But today we have the opportunity to commit each other. And still away: The current government has written in its understanding paper that this is what we handle and this is what we take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105128	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105130	We had set 600 million. kr. of our understanding paper. It wasn't just text, it was real money. I can just say that if you have to clean up at Grindstedværk, it costs 450 million. kr. So this whole thing about making a pilot project for 40 million. kr. and distribute it in addition to several different projects, is not what solves it. So I agree with the rapporteur on what the rapporteur said on 31 October 2019, but I do not agree with what the rapporteur says today, when the rapporteur actually has the power to implement it. And that's what's too bad. We are actually facing some challenges that we have known since the 1980s. It has, in fact, already been contaminated during the 1970s. Isn't it time for something to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105208	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105209	The 40 million. kr. to the defense project at the stream in Grindsted is important because people can see that something is happening. When the rapporteur himself uses the word disturbingly, it is disturbing to hear a historical review of 600 million. kr., which was matador money and which was an estimate to be based on the abandonment of some regions, a centralisation which, fortunately, has not happened. So the question is now, quite topically, to the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur: how much money will you bring into the negotiations when we are going to discuss finance law? It's gonna be really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105242	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105244	Thank you. Five days ago something important happened in Danish politics, which I do not think many discovered. An economic agreement was reached with the regions. It's only been five days. I thought: well, then I hope there will be something in the area of pollution, in the area of generational pollution; let us see what the government has agreed to, what the government has given of concessions to the regions. After all, the regions are responsible for the clean-up of both the generational pollution and the 37,000 other contaminated sites. And I read the press release, which says a lot about health, nurses and welfare, but nothing about the pollution area. There has simply been no more money. I think this is inadequate, both because we are faced with these generational pollutions that we are discussing today, but also because, in addition, there are 37 000 contaminated sites that threaten nature, drinking water and health. So I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is very, very disappointing and unfortunate and that it makes it harder for us to move forward in the work, that no more money has been set aside for this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105354	It is absolutely essential to realise that the 430 million. kr., which is allocated to the regions every year for these soil pollution cases, is not enough when we talk about generational pollutions. What we are also saying at the end of today's debate is that there needs to be an additional, separate pool. It is money which must then be found in a debate in which all the parties must show financial responsibility. That's what this is about. With regard to the economic agreement reached between the state and the regions, I have not been at the table, but I have also read that a pool of 430 million has been agreed. kr. It is the case that each of the parties brings some things and puts them on the table. I would also have liked it to have become a theme, but nevertheless I am glad that we are sitting here today and that I am standing here today arguing that we now have the opportunity to take an important step and to commit one another widely throughout the House, not only in relation to this government but also to future governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105504	Then it's Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105505	Thank you. In fact, there is one new thing in the agreement for the regions. It says: I am a little surprised when the government stands on the platform and says that there is no plan, because I think we have all seen it. After all, there is a plan with red, yellow and green colours, so even those of us who are not environmental technologists can understand what to do and what to do. I just want to know whether the rapporteur does not think that there is a little discord between what is being said by the government and what the government itself writes in its agreement with the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105544	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105545	I am sure that the rapporteur has also learned that in politics too everything is not black and white; there are many nuances. It is quite right, as the Minister for the Environment has also said earlier today, that it is the regions that have the responsibility and responsibility and must give priority to these tasks. A statement has been made which divides it into phases, etc., but one can easily go in and discuss whether the priority is sharp enough. I am also saying in my rapporteur's speech that we will also be discussing this in the future. At the same time, we will also conclude today by saying that we appreciate, appreciate and recognise the efforts made by the regions to deliver a comprehensive clean-up plan. So there are some nuances, and in reality it is also a fairly accurate picture of the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105629	Thank you. Is the Socialist rapporteur satisfied with the economic agreement that the government has just made with the regions here a few days ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105642	I can only be satisfied with that, but in the real world it is always the case that one might wish for something more. As a politician and as a citizen, I could have wished for a completely different world in relation to these soil pollution cases and the major soil pollution cases, where I am particularly familiar with two of them. But that is not the case. Then, together with our colleagues, we have an obligation to start from the real world and then make sure that we take the right steps in the right direction, and that is, for example, not to have an estimate of 600 million. kr. in matador money, but try to look into how we can commit each other to securing an extraordinary grant for this work in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105722	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105724	The Socialist Environment rapporteur is sitting with a one-party government and is satisfied with the economic agreement that one-party government has just made with the regions where 0 DKK has been allocated. to this area. Then it pales completely as if in complete proportion to what has been the answer to. When I think briefly back to the election campaign a year ago, it was not just the large generation of pollution, it was all over the country, including Funen, where I was elected and come from, where the rapporteur's colleagues were so driven that something should happen now, that money should now be set aside, and now there is just a change of power. I remember there was something in a previous election campaign where you ran away from everything, and this tastes like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105809	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105810	I do not know what drives the questioner's thinking, but it says in an understanding paper that the government will take responsibility in this area. You want to give priority to this area and you want to find funding. There is no previous government that has taken such a responsibility, I know at all events, and that is why it is also in the continuation of the understanding paper today, with this excellent question debate, that we all have the opportunity to commit each other, and it will also be in the forthcoming financial law negotiations over the years, that we must show our worth and our responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we now move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr President. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603105907	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the parties who have called for the debate today. It makes absolutely sense to discuss this important area. What can then be a little disturbing is that changing governments have discussed this very much, and we can also understand that Social Democracy is the most ambitious government we have ever had in relation to generational pollution. They have at least written the harshest words and promised to spend the most money. What we have then been able to see in reality is that rhetoric is sharp and that the pen is pointed, but the will is small. An agreement has just been reached with the regions, where we can see the black is the letters, and the white is the paper that says 0 kr. With the great green mandate that has been given, with the great ambitions you have, the most green government we have ever seen has set aside 0 DKK. to a pollution that we have known about in the last 50 years. It is embarrassing to witness and see how one can lead a whole population to apologise, I say this in vain, and see a rapporteur who himself has been in a conciliation on 31 October and thundered against the former Environment Minister stand up here today and say that this is ambitious. It's extremely unambitious. I think it should be said that this should be part of the recovery package of the Danish economy. Over the years, we have experienced several people who have been saying that we can solve this effectively, that we can do it cost-effectively, and it is unfortunately the case that in the Western world we have a lot of these generational pollutions. It's not just in Denmark that this is happening. Therefore, it is an obvious opportunity for Denmark right now to get to grips with these generational pollutions. Danish regions should be commended for the work they have done, and I would like to say that we have always praised the regions. Now we have had a discussion about closing down the regions, and that certainly was not an indication that the regions have not done well, and that was a completely different debate. When you look here, you can see that the regions have explained very well what kind of projects you can start immediately. This is among other things. Høfte 42, and in the same place it is Cheminova's old factory site. It is indeed the case that both Høfte 42 where the discharge occurred and where the factory has been located have the same pollutants, and it is also considered that the price will be the same. There is also Kærgård Klitplantage, which has filled a lot. And then you have to say, there's something to get started with. Then it is true, as the Minister said, that there are other areas where we still lack some knowledge. Yeah, that's right, and that's why you can't get started right away. However, it is necessary to lay down money, which is why I was very pleased, both as then and as current financial rapporteur, but also as current environmental rapporteur, that the previous government and the Danish People's Party had dropped money off. We had set 600 million. kr. I'm gonna start this job. So that's enough money? No, it was not, because it is estimated that it will cost 2.7 billion. kr. So it wasn't enough money, but it was at least money to get started on the big scale and get started doing some real cleanups out there, and so we have three areas that are ready. Heift 42 costs 250 million. DKK, the old factory site costs 250 million. kr., and it is so when you look at Kærgård Klitplantage that it costs 82 million. kr. So we know the prices, but this is a matter of will, and the government doesn't have that will. That is why I think we should be pleased today that there are parties in the Danish Parliament who dare to say that we must now drop this money so that we can get started on this, and I actually believe that it can be a good business case for Denmark. If we succeed in developing the technologies that allow us to clean up, make these reasons attractive again and make them nature areas again, where you can travel there will of course always be wounds in the landscape, when you've had such massive pollutions. I actually think we have something that we can export to other countries too. Unfortunately, this is something that we have seen in many places. So I am very pleased that the SF and the Left have taken this up today, so we have been able to have this debate in the Chamber, and then I am quite fine that you can have a political disagreement, but to look up to being the most green government ever to be, at the same time as you set zero. and then you stand up here mocking the parties and previous governments that have actually set aside money to clean up the sins of the past is a bit sad. However, it is gratifying that a great many parties want to clean up these generational pollutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110400	There's a brief comment from Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110404	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. In relation to how much money there really was from the previous government and how much there were birds on the roof, I think we should just agree to lay down on the flat and say: there were 100 million. kr., it was real money, they got rid of them. But when the rapporteur says that there are 600 million. The rapporteur puts 500 million birds on the roof on top of the figure. And when I mean it, it is actually because it was provided that the regions were closed down and that the soil pollution task has been made more efficient. In essence, that is to say, and it was the great criticism of professionals that, as it were, you would feed the dog with your own tail and not make a separate grant, which we are actually discussing today, where we say that it is actually important to focus on the fact that there should be both money for the soil pollution area, the smaller soil pollutions, and a separate pool for the generational pollutions. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur imagines that this is the same financing route that the Danish People's Party will take, that is, with the closure of the regions and by actually financing the generational pollution with the existing soil pollution effort, or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110512-2	I would like to say two things. Firstly, it was quite real money. This is what has been done since Bjarne Corydon was Minister of Finance who has been able to use dynamic effects. It was the Social Democratic Party that introduced that system, and it is still being used away. So it's gonna be hard to make a bill if you walk away from it, but it could be nice to walk away from it, because then there were some things that got a little harder, but also more real. In relation to the other, I would say: no. In fact, I believe that this should be used as a lever, also in relation to the recovery package that needs to be made. And it is actually the case that when you look at the structural balance, you can see that's what we hear, too, that if you borrow, it doesn't matter. We have such a low national debt, and as long as we stay below 60%. It is the European Union that has said so, and it does not really mean very much. And what we're talking about here is 2.7 billion. kr. over a 10-15-year period; of course it can be done. And we actually believe in the Danish People's Party that this is an investment, both in nature and the environment, but it is actually also an investment in jobs and know-how and knowledge that we can export. So it might as well be that the 2.7 billion. kr. Very well could be remunerated by veins.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110613	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110614	Thank you for a clear answer from the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then I think we can put birds on the roof in the grave and say that exactly what we are looking at now is forward-looking funding. I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is an effort that can actually create growth and employment now and set in motion a clean-up of the generational pollutions where technology is clear. The SF has also made this clear that we seem to be part of a recovery package. So that's interesting to hear, and I'm glad we're moving in this debate and looking forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110645-2	But I can only sign and say that we are in a situation now that we have to find solutions; we have to find new ways. The consumption party that was before corona, I regret to say, is going to slow down, and that is why we in Denmark must also become wiser and go other ways. And there is no doubt that this agenda is an agenda that is also going on in other countries. It's not just in Denmark that you have these generational pollutions... they exist all over the Western world... and therefore it could be interesting if Denmark could take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110713	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110715	I think that is quite right when Mr. René Christensen says that this can be part of a recovery package, because it will also include both current activities and jobs, but it will also, as Mr. René Christensen rightly says, apply more forward-lookingly. But it is also the case that we do not have to wait for us to develop the new technology in order to get started in many of those areas. So, Mrs Mai Villadsen mentioned precisely the plan that Danske Regioner has put forward, where there are places you can actually start. What I really just want to ask, sir. René Christensen on the subject because he is also the financial rapporteur and therefore knows how things are going on: Why does Mr. René Christensen actually that the government did not get through or would not get through with an appropriation on the Finance Act for this year? Because sometimes it is, one can say because one could not get one's parliamentary basis to go wrong, and then one has to give in, but that is probably not the case here. At least I don't see it that way. When I hear the parliamentary basis of the parties, they are quite crazy to continue working on this and for good reason, so why does Mr. René Christensen that the government simply says it is our policy, and it is also something that we give priority to, at least we have written it, but yet do we choose not to prioritise it in a finance law, despite the fact that there is political support for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110824	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110825	Unfortunately, that is difficult for me to say, and unfortunately I have not been in the negotiating room, but it is also surprising for us in the Danish People's Party. In other words, we have an absolute government, a one-party government which decides everything for itself and which overrides the majority of the Folketing in negotiations about corona and other things, because you just do what you want. And here you write some nice words, but you don't act, and I guess it's because you don't want to. I can't take it any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110851	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Jacob Jensen the word again? No, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110855	DF and the rapporteur continue to postulate that real money had been set aside, i.e. that 600 million had been set aside. kr. off. But is it not true that it should be based on the closure of the regions and the centralisation of the regions? The politicians and the regions that are today very, very central partners also make a huge effort in relation to these generational pollutions, and they should be eliminated, that is, closed down? Maybe you could find 600 million. kr. Isn't that really how it was? It must be said, however, that it is quite different that there are 40 million in this budget law. DKK 134 million has been found. kr. for a boost to MUDP and then 65 million. kr. extra to the regions in relation to surface water.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603110948	This is a rather strange debate, but the rapporteur says it very well, namely that what we fought for in the Social Democracy was that we should hold the political positions in the regions. What we fought for was, of course, to retain the skills that existed in the regions. It was not the case that the employees who made these reports had to be fired in the regions. It was actually to remove a link, so you had two links in Denmark, you had the state, and then you had the municipalities; and then we didn't have to sit here and throw the monkey on compared to such projects here and say: It's also the regions etc. And the Minister could then say: this report from the regions is not good enough. No, it would have been our challenge in this Parliament to find the funding to clean this up. That would have been our responsibility. You couldn't pass the monkey on. Of course, you should still have had these talented employees to do it. It is true that that was where we found the money, and it was a dynamic effect; because you rationalised, you got some money free, and you wanted to spend it on the environment, and the Danish People's Party agreed with that. We can then understand that the current government, the one-party government, which has almost unlimited power, has not chosen to drop the money that the previous government did, and that is, of course, sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111052	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111053	I just have to say that I think it was very good that the Danish People's Party and the Left Government failed to centralise further and dismantle the regions that are also making a huge effort in this area. If we look forward then, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that it is precisely pointing forward that we now have a government that writes in its understanding paper that we will deal with, take responsibility for and find funding for generational pollutions and that we will probably conclude the day by agreeing that a separate pool is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111134	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111135	In fact, I think it is a pity that we have all thought that we have a government that would do something about generational pollution and indeed have written it down on a piece of paper, but has not so far shown it in practice. I think it is a pity that we are going down here in the Chamber with a debate on questions tabled by the Left and the SF to get a one-party government to do what it wants to do. I find that sad. But that is what we can do with the parliamentary tools that we have, namely take it down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and then we can press a government to do what the government has written it wants, but which it has not done in practice. So it's a good day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111217	Thank you. Let me start with the positive first and then I can't help but say that I'm getting a tiny bit tired of this debate. But the positive thing is that there is broad political recognition that this is a major problem and that it is a problem that the regions cannot solve within their current budget. However, the debate we are having now will be such a debate, which is about passing the blame on to some others. We can instead just talk about how these things work in here. So, as I said before, every party, with respect for itself, meets up to the financial law negotiations with a coherent financial law proposal in which a lot of revenue and expenditure has been formulated, and everything can be financed there. It is also possible to do so with other proposals, as did the previous government in its agreement with the Danish People's Party. There we had this idea of closing down the regions and the 500 million. kr. that came out of streamlining or rationalising this structure, you would then let go to this area. It did not happen, so it is money that is not there, and in the same way we also occasionally come up with a financial bill that proposes all sorts of green taxes or things that we can abolish, or other sources of income that we cannot get support for. And that means that all the things we had prioritised in our financial legislation, all the things we had found money for, suddenly there is not so much money for, and we sit with other parties and suddenly do not have as much money as we did when we ourselves played the Finance Act with our own game. Suddenly we do not have so much money to play with, and we sit in a room where there are other parties with other interests and other ideas. It's just the process, and that's what doesn't make this happen. It is not a great political disagreement. At least that is not the way I hear it. However, the problem is precisely not to agree among us environmental rapporteurs or among you who have been elected in an area that has large generational pollution that is important. We know it is important, but the exercise is first to get it into the political game of your own party, and then, when you sit in the negotiations, when you sit in the process and have the crucial mandates, there were some who had it before the election, and now we are some who have it after the election • also to get it through that needle's eye, and it is not always easy. It was not easy for the previous government and it has not been easy for us because there were many things we wanted to spend money on. We would like more money for untouched forests, we would like more money for set-aside, we would like more money for educators, we would like more money for teachers and so on. etc. And yes, many of us have such financial law issues where we dream of getting all sorts of revenue, and then we can say that we have financed it. The government and the Danish People's Party had financed it by closing down the regions, but it didn't happen, so the money wasn't there. We could have financed it by means of something that didn't happen, and then it couldn't have happened. This is the process we are in, and that is why I get tired of this debate because it is about blaming each other and saying who is the greenest now. What I think we should do is • and I really think that the proposal for adoption that was put forward for today is a first recognition of pulling on the work clothes and dropping the blame and then actually trying to plan and find that money over a number of years. And, of course, what becomes difficult is the cross-cutting priority, because does this mean that we can take less land out and plant smaller forests because we have to give priority to these generational pollutions? That is one priority. The second priority is how fast it should go. Should it be ten years, or should we say that it may well take 20 years, because some of these generational pollutions can wait a little longer, because then we will have the technology that makes it possible or a little cheaper than it would be today? In this way, there is also a lot of both balance and reflection that we must do when we first come to concrete planning. And that's what I hope we're going to do now. I really hope, when we have that plan with the help of the government and from the regions, that I too can go to my parliamentary group and I think I can, but I do not have a mandate to negotiate finance law here and say that I have to have 200 million. kr. per year for generational pollution. And then we have to be so many parties, especially parties that have the crucial mandates that, when we sit in the budget negotiations, prioritise it, also knowing that there will then be less money to plant trees and to take out land. That's a priority. However, as I hear the speeches that have been made today, we would like to do this together, which is why I think the next important step is to get that plan, so that it all becomes a tiny bit operational, so that we can also discuss what the time perspective is, i.e. whether it is 10 years, 15 years or 20 years or what it means for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111725	Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111729	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is true that it is always about priorities. But now that you've written it into a contract paper, the priority isn't that difficult, I guess, that's what you want. I can just say that I've had some funny experiences with that paper deal. After all, we also had it in relation to the climate negotiations that were written into the contract paper that growth and employment should not be affected. Fortunately, that was included at the end, but at least it cost a little. In other words, the Radical Left will fight against if the government now comes up with a financial bill, now that we have to negotiate a financial law, where, for example, 250 million have been set aside. kr. in the next 10 years to pollution of the generation in order to live up to the agreement paper that has been written with the Radical Left? Would it then be a huge battleground or would it not be the easiest way to do it for the government? Then it was, of course, acted on before the other negotiations on the Finance Act were started. Was it not a way of relieving the environment that the rapporteur so well writes there may be in a financial bill debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111826	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I would like to work towards a plan so that we can reach an agreement in the context of a financial law. It may also be in the context of some other negotiations. Sometimes we find money in other ways too. But I also think that it is sometimes too easy when you are both the opposition party, but also the support party. Sometimes it's too easy just to point the finger at the government and say, "Give us just 2.7 billion." kr. I guess it's politics to talk about where the money should come from. What if the government says, "Okay, we're gonna make a new pesticide tax, 'cause we're gonna get the money in like this, and then the farmers are gonna have to pay this bill?" That wouldn't be fair. Or what if they said, "Do you know what, dear friends, we use them for generational pollution, but then we can't take more land out and plant more trees to save the climate?" That's the hard part. I really want us to do this together, but I personally have some doubts as to whether it is a 10-year aim, whether it is a 15-year aim. What is the bill when we say not only the ten generation pollutions, but also the 37,000 soil pollutions? I would really like to get into that machinery space so that we can make a realistic plan for it, and then I would also like to fight for us to help put that money off the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111941	Sir. René Christensen wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603111943	Thank you. I would then like to say that I strongly disagree with the rapporteur of the Radicals. There's no need to talk anymore. There is no need to write any more things on paper. We know the ten-generation pollutions. We know you're ready to get started on the three of them. Now action must also be taken. I mean, it's gonna be a little blablabla too, and I think someone's looking at us now and saying, is it a re-mission or what's going on inside the Parliamentary Chamber right now? We think we've heard it many times before. I therefore believe that the radical rapporteur has to say that we have come so far, our level of knowledge is so high, and we know these places that we now have to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112018	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112019	But it is too easy even as an opposition to say: now something must happen, now you must bring some money. But where should the money come from? It is a reality that the money that the then government, with its support party, the Danish People's Party, found is no longer there. That is to say, it is some other money that we need to find. Where are we gonna find them? Or what is it that we cannot prioritize? That's just what makes it more difficult. It's always so easy to take one case and say it's the most important thing. Do you realize how much majority there is in the Folketing to spend money on things that, if you put them all, would give a cake that is much bigger than what you have money for? That's what the reality is. But yes, I think we should work on and find that plan. I just don't think it should be this place of guilt and compete over who's the greenest. Now I just think we should get the work clothes on and make that plan and find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112104	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112105	I fully agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe that all policy is, of course, a priority, but this has been given priority. It is, of course, in the paper of understanding on which I assume the Radicals too have had an influence, and if I know the Radicals' right, even a great influence. So when it is a priority, it is not too much to demand that we in the Folketing say to the government: What are you doing to live up to what you yourself have guaranteed will be prioritised? I do not really think that is quite unreasonable. That is why we have tabled this question debate. That is why I would just like to ask the Radicals: what is the level of ambition of the Radicals? I know you can ask whether it is 10 or 15 years, but do you have radicals, for example? Was there something more important for the Radicals to be included in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112155	Honestly, I can't remember whether we had it in our financial law game. To be perfectly honest, what was very crucial for us was and now I am just looking around here on the set aside, because the climate agenda is so urgent for us and because there are some huge expenses there, both running costs, but also some capital costs, if you can afford to call them that. That was our top priority. But we do recognize that these generational pollutions are also invading. Some people are intruding because it's starting to leak out, and then we can't put it off any longer. However, we are at a time when very important priorities need to be made, because we are also facing this pressure in relation to the climate. It is a task that needs to be resolved in ten years. That is why, as an environmental rapporteur and as a member of a party that cares about the climate and everything else, I am of course also interested in finding out what is the sensible way of doing this. Is there something that we should start now? That is certainly there and that we would like to resolve within a few years? But is there anything we can wait ten years for in return to spend that money planting forests? I would just like to be honest there and say that in this way things must be seen in context. And that is why I would like to negotiate on a specific plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112307	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112308	It is quite frank talk to say that the Radicals have not given it a high priority, so to speak, and that there was something else that was more important. I think that's quite fair. It is also good that we get it here. But may I ask whether a debate such as this and the things that Danske Regions have brought forward in the analysis and plan they have put forward has made the Radicals move forward; that it is therefore on the Radicals' list of priorities when it comes to negotiating the Finance Act. It will of course be crucial what the Radicals say when they sit as a support party, and just as the other three support parties have some of the crucial mandates. Is this something that will then be given higher priority in next year's financial law negotiations than was done last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112346	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112347	If the rapporteur specifically asks us radicals, our dilemma is very often that there are a lot of things we would like to do, and we can also find a lot of money. We are not afraid to introduce a green tax or get some people who can understand it to work more. I think it is quite widely recognised that we dare to get money, even if it sometimes makes us rather unpopular. That also means, when we come up with our draft budget, that there are quite a lot of things we can prioritise if we had power, as we have been watching, because we can find a lot of money. That is why it has also been part of our priorities. We have had many priorities. But it is true that when it is tighter and we meet a government or a majority that cannot find as much money, then we stand there and have to choose whether it is 200 million. kr. per year for soil pollution or 200 million. kr. for set-aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112436	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112438	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I just need to clarify a few things, because the rapporteur talks a lot about this issue of priorities: does the Radical Left really believe that what needs to be prioritised is to raise more forests, as we do through the new forest fund, where private money can be entered into funding, and then to clean up generational pollution? Is that the choice you have? I hope I heard wrong, because I think that would be a strange choice. In addition, and following on from this, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is imagined that there might be other sources of funding, for example. To clean up these generational pollutions so that you just make the cake bigger and don't make a headless priority between the climate effort and the environmental effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112521	I didn't get the last question, I'll have to take that after. But Mrs Signe Munk asks me: is it really a choice between afforestation and set-aside? Well, sometimes it's a priority between some areas, because the money doesn't last anymore. I have to say that I know this is very important for the SF, but that there was something else that was more important in the last financial law, namely educators. Because if this had been the most important thing, it would have come through. For us, the most important set-aside was, and that was what we got. We got 200 million. kr. a year, as I recall, for it was a cardinal point for us. For SF, the cardinal point was educators, and I understand that. It may be that in the next Finance Act, if the cardinal point is soil pollution, then it is what SF gets through. But that's just the way it is every time we negotiate the cake. It's less than the sum of all the wishes we have. But we really want to work together on this. I just have to be a little more honest and realistic about this priority, because that's why it hasn't happened yet. There won't be anyone against doing anything about this. Why would you mind? It is because there is a cake we all have an interest in getting a piece of, and then there are some who would rather build a motorway or something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112636	Thank you! Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112637	Listen, Mrs. Zenia Stampe. This is weird. The rapporteur starts by saying that we should not shoot at each other now, and that is exactly what the rapporteur is proposing. I ask openly whether the Radical Left believes that the priority in a financial law lies between afforestation and cleaning up generational pollution. I think it is on the surface to say that this is not, of course, the case. I would just like to conclude by asking the rapporteur: could we, for example, be able to do so? Imagine that we could finance some of this effort by means of a chemical tax, which SF also took to the table at the last budget debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112707	You could definitely do that. Now, unfortunately, I am not the tax rapporteur, but now the rapporteur speaks my language. We'd love to. This is really how we want to work, namely by solving as many of these tasks as possible, because there are so many insanely important tasks now. I think Mrs Signe Munk knows that too, because Mrs Signe Munk is the climate rapporteur. So the more money we can really go out and pick up that kind of stuff and by putting taxes on something that causes a lot of problems, the better it is. So that would be a very good concrete piece, on which we would very much like to enter into dialogue, but that is perhaps also where there will be a conflict over there in the bourgeois camp, but that is the way it is. But we would very much like to accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112748	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112749	Thank you. Now radicals are what we call a decisive support party, and then I am thinking a little about the fact that much is being said in the debate about whether it is child care or other things it should be kept up against. But I wonder whether it is now certain that this expenditure is quite normal operating expenditure. I think we should try to examine this, so I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether it was not a good question to take part in the radical financial rapporteur, and I will try to check for myself whether this expenditure is now necessarily one hundred percent normal, normal operating expenditure, or whether it might as well be a construction cost. Because if we did it all in one big chop in one year I realize that it's in the theoretical world it would be a construction cost, and then it was over, but then it was somewhere else in the bookkeeping, and then it was somewhere else that the money had to be taken from, and there's room, and then it could be done. Was that something that the radical rapporteur would try to take along and get checked up on in preparation for the forthcoming financial bill debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603112858	I am quite convinced that this is a construction cost, and that is what I said when I gave the list of all the wishes we had for the Finance Act. It was just to portray a financial law course and all the desires you bring. I am convinced that this is a construction cost, and that is why it is also clearer than if I came and asked for 200 million. kr. more a year to culture. As rapporteur on culture, I know that this would be virtually impossible, but that is why I still dream about it. But that is why I believe it is more realistic. But that is where we have a fight when it comes to other installations. I do not dream of many more motorways, but there I think there might be a competition within the rapporteur's party about whether it was here or motorways around Denmark that should be targeted. These are the types of projects to be prioritised and our priorities would be quite clear. But that is also why I mention construction projects in the area of climate change and also climate adjustments etc. We really want to do this in the Radical Left. We would very much like to have a plan, but we would also like to see whether there is any of it that we can postpone a little if it means that we can plant more forest more quickly if that is the priority we are forced to face because the funds are limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113006	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113006-2	Well, then we have the same feeling, that this is probably not an ordinary operating cost. So let us move on from there, because then it is quite obvious to try to ask the radical rapporteur with the decisive influence that the Radical Left has right now, if you will, as it were, go to it in the forthcoming budget negotiations and then get the money set aside for this. Of course, there will be a priority, probably over on the construction side, but then this is not about the usual, normal and daily service costs for childcare, care for the elderly, etc. Then it's a priority in the plant part. Would Radicals do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113041	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113043	I stand here and I am rather reserved, but I have also said that I believe that I can negotiate this into our financial law proposal. And when there are other support parties that give priority to it, then I think it is realistic. I just do not like to stand and promise everything that I do not have a mandate to implement, because I am now an environmental rapporteur and not a financial rapporteur, and because we first need to make a financial bill. But, by the way, I think that the possibility of getting it through is greater when we have that plan. However, we would very much like to get into the concrete path. I'm just trying to be realistic, but it's not because we are in any way opposed to doing something in this area. We would like to do so, but there is a reason why it has not happened yet, and I think it is because all parties have the problem that it is not just an environmental rapporteur or someone who has been elected close to a generational pollution that should want to. The whole party must do so, and it must also give it priority over other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113135	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113137	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to say that I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is also a matter of priorities. However, I still felt called to say something because I am actually concerned if, as politicians, we continue to talk about the contradiction between climate and environment, climate and nature or climate and drinking water, and also green conversion and welfare. Actually, I think that's dangerous. For the rapporteur, it is also saying: this is about whether you are willing to find the money. I have seen financial law from the Radicals, but also from the SF and the Enhedslisten, which finds significantly more money than the government put up for. Then it is all about whether we can agree on the funding proposals, and as far as we are concerned, and I also believe that I am speaking on behalf of the SF, it is about taxation of capital and share income, bank balance tax and much else, and I do not think we agree with Radicals, and then it will be difficult to find the money. That is why I think it could be hopeful if we could copy the model from the climate area, where together we propose that there should be a kind of CO2 because I would really warn against this being a struggle between climate and environment, also because there is actually a connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113255	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113256	I actually think this talk is really interesting because it's moving down below what are the real issues here. For the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, it is of course common ground that we often come up for finance negotiations with quite a lot of money or ideas about where we can find money, and sometimes we agree. I think, for example. well, we could find each other in relation to such charges on chemicals or pesticides, or whatever it might be of things that have a harmful effect. I think we could find each other there. But then it is also sometimes that the waters part and that the Enhedslisten will find the money in one place and that we will find them somewhere else, and then we end up not finding so many together. But what we really should be working for, if we can help the government achieve more, so that it does not become a choice between generational pollution and afforestation, is also to find each other where we want to find the money. Because if we can stand together and not be played off against each other by the government, then maybe we have a better chance of it. It was kind of a look into the engine room, but that's how it is, so if we can help each other there, maybe we can do this job together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113400	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113401	Thank you. This is an invitation I would very much like to receive from the Radicals. I think it is quite right and a good strategy to lay down before some negotiations where we hope to agree on the objective. I would like to say that there are two things which are quite positive in this case of generational pollution. One is that it is not permanent means. Once you've cleaned up a reason, it's purified. So it's not something that's gonna cost a bill forever. That's why it's cheaper to fund this than much else. The second is that there is an employment effect. Now we are not the ones who think it is the best thing in the world to count on a lot of dynamic effects, but it is nevertheless better to have people walking out and cleaning up grounds and having a job than to be in unemployment, as many are now. So that's why there are some advantages in doing this and doing it now as a green reboot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113449	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113450	I fully agree with that. Precisely because it's a plant, it's also easier than if we had to find 200 million. kr. a year to educators, and it is much harder to get through. So I also believe that it's possible if we go together. Then I would just like to say to the opposition, who is asking why nothing happened with the last Finance Act, that when you come to as a new government and a new parliamentary basis, you have many savings after many years in opposition. I think we got quite a long way off last Finance Act, and this can hopefully be what we will get to the next Finance Act or the next one again, but hopefully the next one, and I think we should help each other with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113528	Thank you. There are no more comments or questions. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603113537	Thank you. Some political struggles are long, they can be laborious, and they can be difficult. But there is an important rule, and it is that if the matter is important enough, one must always continue. This is the case for SF when it comes to the fight to clean up the historical generational pollutions, the major generational pollutions, around Denmark. Just as these pollutants have unfortunately been inherited and inherited, the struggle to clean them up has also been passed on from generation to generation in the SF. This fight for SF started at Margrete Auken, it was carried on by Steen Gade and Pia Olsen Dyhr, and now the depechen has moved on to me. Of course, we are still fighting away because the problem has not been solved. I think all the rapporteurs on this matter have made that clear. The ten large generation pollutants around Denmark today threaten the environment in different ways, but ultimately also our health, because chemicals do not stay well away from people, whether they are initially discharged into the sea, into rivers or into groundwater. The concern for our marine environment, health or just such good, proper respect for the planet we are part of has led many citizens to work actively to ensure that there is a clean-up of the generational pollution. It is whether you look to the northwest and Thyborøn at Høfde 42, or whether you look towards South Jutland to Grindsted, or whether you look east to the capital. All those places there are citizens who are fighting a persistent fight to ask us politicians to take responsibility in this matter and that we act politically. Now we are standing where there is technology in several places to start cleaning up and prevent generational pollution from spreading more. It was recently announced that the two companies Krüger and Fortum, among others, were: at the poison depot at Høfte 42 now finally completed their experiment with a purification technology. The citizens then ask us: what are you waiting for? It's a clear and logical question if you ask SF. And to that question, there is now only one answer: we need to find money as soon as possible to get this work started. Danish Regions have given us a comprehensive plan with phases for how we can handle the generational pollution over time. The technologies are evolving and it is time we took the matter to the political table. Of course, it requires funding, and the SF is ready for that. But that is also why I am extremely proud and very pleased that today, as a whole, Parliament is united from the right in the Chamber to the left in the Chamber, that we are writing in black and white, that the government must now work to find funding to clean up the generational pollution as soon as possible, and that we must have a separate appropriation. In view of this, on behalf of Signe Munk (SF), Jacob Jensen (V), Troels Ravn (S), René Christensen (DF), Zenia Stampe (RV), Mai Villadsen (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises and appreciates the efforts of the regions to deliver a comprehensive plan for cleaning up after the generational pollutions. These are costly pollutions which the regions cannot deal with within the current appropriations. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work to find the necessary funding as soon as possible to clean up generational pollutions based on the regions' professional priorities. It is essential to secure an additional and separate allocation so that the current financing of the soil pollution area is targeted at efforts to protect groundwater, nature and health from the many minor soil pollutions, which also require rapid action. • V 84).
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114037	Thank you. This proposal is part of the further negotiations. First it is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114044	Thank you. I would just like to take this opportunity today to thank Signe Munk and the SF for putting continued pressure on something to happen to these generational pollutions. I know that this is something that the SF has also brought into the financial law negotiations. I know it's something that Mrs Signe Munk and SF take very seriously, and I'm really glad to have you as an ally in the fight for this. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114111	I guess there's nothing else to do but sign for Enhedslisten's beautiful words and also send the ball back and say thank you for your cooperation. Because there is no party here that has 90 seats, and that is why this matter cannot be dealt with on its own.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114129	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114138	I too would like to thank you for your cooperation. We have, of course, put this question together, the Left and the SF, and it may say that this is also a very important matter, and where we also think that action is needed. I also think it is good that it is a joint Parliament that is behind this proposal for adoption. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Signe Munk what she thinks about the need for a united Parliament to adopt a proposal for adoption before we can, like it, get even further off the ground with more than what has already been started from the past. Is it satisfactory, as the SF sees it? Is the SF satisfied with the Environment Minister's deployment in this field, or is there any need for more?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114217	Well, as Enhedslisten also highlighted, we took a proposal to allocate money to the generational pollution to the Finance Act. Of course, it was a disappointment for us that we did not succeed. That is why we have been forced to follow up. It was relevant for us to have this question debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, also with the possibility of being able to get Parliament together exactly about a forward-looking action. That is what we are doing with the proposal for adoption that we have before us today. So, of course, this question debate is a result of the fact that we have not been satisfied, because we want to support our words that we want action, of course, and that we would have preferred to see that we had started cleaning up generational pollutions yesterday rather than tomorrow. So this is the result of our dissatisfaction with the fact that nothing more has happened in this area and has therefore taken action. I would also like to say that, when we have the proposal for adoption that is, I also think we are clearly seeing that it is now pointing forward. The government actually makes some clear concessions and moves, and I will sign for that in return. I'm really, really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114321	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114323	I think it is very good that it is pointing forward. It can be said that the next time there is an opportunity to negotiate these things. Of course, there must always be a connection with the Finance Act that is due to be made in the autumn. I know that Mrs Signe Munk is not the financial rapporteur for the SF, but still has some influence on matters. Can Mrs Signe Munk imagine that the SF can vote in favour of a budget law where there is no extra funding to clean up generational and soil pollutions that we are talking about here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114352	We are going to make a proposal to launch the first phase of the plan put forward by the regions for the financial law negotiations. Of course, we are using this opportunity to allocate this money in order to follow up precisely the proposal for adoption which says that funding for the generational pollution must be found as soon as possible. There, of course, we use the financial law negotiations as the first occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114417	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114421	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for joining us in today's debate on the question. I'd like to stick with the money, but first a little bit of history. If you now take Høfte 42, who everyone knows, including those who do not live in the area, it is true that it was the company Cheminova that used it for a long time to dump pesticides, but the State has also used the depot for the disposal of chemical waste for a period of time. After all, the minister is a traveler in a motto that says that the polluter has to pay, that is to say it is on our table. It is so that from the 1970s until now we have spent over 100 million dollars on just Høfte 42. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why I would just like to say to the rapporteur and also a little to the government: that is 2.7 billion. kr., we're talking about. It's a lot of money, but it's a one-time investment. The radical rapporteur mixed this up with the fact that this was part of whether you should have more kindergarten teachers and other things, but it is an operation. Does the rapporteur not agree that the government should put the 2.7 billion? kr. of as a one-off cost over a period of 10-12 years, as it stands here? For then you have the basis for further work, both with the three areas where you can clean up, but of course also with the seven areas where you lack knowledge. Isn't it that sorry, I say it a little bit to the right leg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114546	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114547	Now I've been playing football for many years, and what's on my right leg has to be kicked to the finish line, so that's what we're going to do now. In the SF we fully recognise that the regions have actually drawn up this overall plan, which, contrary perhaps to what is said by other rapporteurs in the debate, is a phase plan in which they also set amounts. I agree with what the rapporteur has just said: it is a one-off expenditure. You set the money aside so that you can send the job in tenders and that it can be cleaned up. However, I would also like to say that the figure we have now is, of course, the 2.7 billion. kr. over 10 years, but we may well be in a situation where it will actually be cheaper because there are more technologies that can be used for this. In fact, the regions also say in their plan that it is a figure with uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114638	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114640	Thank you. That is absolutely right. But we have so much knowledge now. What only disappoints us a little in the Danish People's Party is that there is always the response from the government that there is not enough knowledge, and what about the 37,000 other places where there are point pollutions and other things? But here we have knowledge. I have been chairman of the Committee on the Environment for many years now, and we have had countless consultations where we have been discussing this. We have knowledge and now there are three areas where the regions say: we are ready for the task, will you send the money? That is the task we have in the Folketing, and we must, of course, have it solved. And that is a one-off sum, which is why I also believe, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that, in the light of the recovery plan that we are going to have after corona, this is an obvious issue to address, because we are also developing new knowledge that we can subsequently export.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114725	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114726	I do not disagree with any of what the rapporteur has said. We have also said, and we have also made this clear in the press, that if a recovery package of this kind is to be made, it is obvious to address the generational pollutions where, as the rapporteur also says, technology is ready. That's one of them. The poison depot at Høfte 42. So that is clearly something that can give employment effects and that we can set in motion where it is ready to do so. It should not be the case that, because there are some generational pollutions in which we still need technology to be developed and pollution clarified, as the regions point out in their plan, we are putting a brake on the others. That is precisely why there is a good logic in having a phase plan and getting started. I will say nothing more, because I see that the President has stood up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114813	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114815	Thank you. From this point of view too, I would like to thank the SF rapporteur for the good cooperation that has been going on, to press the government on this matter and also to put in place a joint proposal for adoption to which we have now succeeded, because it is a matter in which it is important not only to talk about it but to act in this area. I myself grew up relatively close to Høfde 42, and now I live in a municipality where we have just gotten the tenth generation pollution, namely on Himmark Strand, and whether we speak Grindstedværket, Høfde 42 or Himmark Strand, where the preliminary studies have been carried out and Krüger is faced with a groundbreaking technology, which may also be an export adventure, if we look at Høfde 42, we see that the government, the government that was otherwise very busy saying that they would act as they were just the Social Democrats before the elections, has now made two economic agreements without it being included, and a financial agreement without it being included. I understand from the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and partly from the Minister's introduction, that the Socialists still maintain that it is super-ambitious. Then I just want to hear from the SF's rapporteur, without this becoming such a character, whether SF shares the view that, when it is so clear in the understanding paper, it is ambitious and acceptable that two economic agreements with 0 DKK have been drawn up. in each of them and a finance agreement with 0 DKK. in this area, when we know how necessary it is that we now clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114935	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603114936	I think I will also refrain from characterising, as well as sticking to the forward-looking track. However, I think that part of the answer lies in seeing how the SF goes to this case here. For the first step for us, of course, was the understanding paper, and it says that it is a priority to deal with it, but it does not say when and as soon as possible etc. It is therefore a natural step for us to say that we have just worked to get it black and white, that the government must work to find funding as soon as possible. And it's very important that this is a separate extra allocation, so we get out of that, I think, a little annoying discussion where things get mixed up. When we take the next step, it is obvious because we have not been happy with the pace of this because we want to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115029	Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115031	Thank you. That is why it is also a good thing that we have together made a proposal for adoption and raised a question debate which is now pushing the government to act in this area. Nevertheless, there is the risk that, because the government has now not taken it up in the economic negotiations and allocated money, there is still an unresolved question as from next year, when no money has been set aside for this. For the money that the previous government, of which I myself was a part, put aside both last year and this year, when we are running at 40 million kroner this year, runs out at the turn of the year. Is the rapporteur not afraid that such a slip will come? Now it has been budgeted until the turn of the year, and if something is agreed until the end of the year, we really risk that some of the knowledge that exists, but also some of the employees who are working on it, will end up in such an unresolved situation until the turn of the year, because there has been no willingness to extend the appropriations in next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115120	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115121	Because new appropriations are needed from next year, the government will also, of course, be faced with a financial requirement from the SF to allocate money to the generational pollution. This must be a natural consequence of the fact that we are ready to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115134	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115148	Should we allow the next generation to inherit the enormous problems associated with the ten huge pollutions, the generational pollutions that the industry of the past has left around Denmark? Of course we shouldn't. Should we let the next generation inherit the problems of the 100 tonnes of chemicals, 7 tonnes of mercury, at Høfte 42 at Thyborøn, or the problems of Cheminova's old factory site at Harboøre Tange, where there are 15 tonnes of pesticides and 6 tonnes of mercury? Should we allow the next generation to inherit the problems of Kærgård Klitplantage, where huge quantities of mercury, cyanide, benzene and chlorinated solvents threaten nature, or the problems of Grindstedværk, where 235 kg of vinyl chloride leaks into the stream every year, which means that as a citizen we must not eat the fish we catch or bathe in the stream because it is potentially carcinogenic? It is just to mention some of the problems created by the ten generation pollutions that we have in Denmark, and it is thus pollutions with extremely toxic substances that are usually measured in tons and where solutions are associated with major economic consequences. And lack of action risks having even greater consequences for health and nature. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that it is of course a bottom-up task that we get started solving these huge pollution cases so that our children do not have to inherit old chemical deposits or lakes and beaches that are filled with heavy metals and carcinogenic toxins. It will have incalculable consequences. That is why we were very happy when we managed to get the generational pollution into the understanding paper as a basis for this government. That is really, really important to us, and that is why it is also with regret that we have not got to work properly and that the agreement that was made with the regions just five days ago does not allocate any more funds. I immediately see the proposals of the regions as a very fine proposal, which can be used as a kind of road map. It is clear that there is no priority between the various pollutions, but is it also the responsibility of the regions? It's not in my optics, because all these pollutions obviously need to be cleaned up. The regions are actually presenting a plan to start five of these clean-ups right away and follow many of them all the way to the end. The rest must be further mapped out and, of course, it is also an important task, but it simply does not prevent us from embarking on the current ones. If it's up to us, it's just getting started. These pollutions are lurking as a threat to nature and health, which is why we cannot just stick our heads in the sand, but we simply need to work together with the regions to clean up these causes. This could be done by creating a state fund which allocates funds which the regions must give priority to. There may also be cofinancing from private companies and other funds, and we are actually told that there is some interest in that. In the Enhedslisten we also propose that a joint regionally owned company be established which, together with the universities, can research and develop in technology that is working on a new clean-up, which could give export and return, and that funds could then be used to re-clean up further grounds. We also think that there is an enormously important potential to clean up land now at a time when unemployment is very high. This could be an important link in a green reboot of Denmark. I would also like to say something else which is very close to my heart and which is important, and that is that there are 37 000 other pollutions out there which, of course, also need to be dealt with. This must not be a either-or, it must be a both- and. That's one of them. the case from Nyborg with the Flash Frost, where there is a polluted ground where we risk the pollution leaking into the aquatic environment in Storebælt, and elsewhere the pollution that exists threatens drinking water. That is simply not acceptable. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we must, of course, act on it, and I would like to thank the SF in particular for bringing this up and putting further pressure on the Folketing, the government and the majority to find some means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115708	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115711	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen for a fine speech by the rapporteur. I think it is true that there is a task here which has been, one can say put on hold for a while and, as Mrs Mai Villadsen says, we can no longer stick our heads in the sand, now something has to happen. With all due respect for the words in the understanding paper, which in itself does not make a difference, they do make the difference that the supporting parties, including Enhedslisten, feel obliged to work for it. So I guess that is also what we are seeing here today. I would therefore just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is satisfied with the efforts of the Minister for the Environment in this area, because I think there is at least a lack of clear indication on the part of the government. We stand here today with a unanimous Parliament which adopts a proposal for adoption, and that is clearly what needs to be done before the government does more about it. Is the Enhedslisten satisfied with the Minister for the Environment in this field?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115808	I am, of course, sorry that nothing more has happened in this area. After all, it is not only the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment; it is also the Minister for Finance who has been sitting and making an agreement with the regions five days ago, where there is no additional funding for cleaning up contaminated sites. I think that is a pity, and that is why, of course, we also think that it must be a priority for the future to find that money. Fortunately, one might say, it is not permanent means, it is the one-off cost of these clean-ups, so it should be possible to find it. I was not so happy with the former government's handling of the area either to be completely honest. Of course we have a responsibility, I think, to put a lot of pressure on the current government, and I am so glad that we can do that in cooperation with the Left and the SF and many other good forces here in the Folketing, who know that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115900	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115901	I fully agree that the Enhedslisten was not satisfied with the previous government, which is why there was no support party either. But now you are a support party and you have this as a priority in the understanding paper. And whether it is the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Finance is, if you may say so, one great thing, it is the government as a whole. I would therefore just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can imagine that the Enhedslisten will vote for next year's Finance Act without any additional funds being set aside for soil pollution clean-up, including generational pollution. Could Enhedslisten imagine voting in favour of a Finance Act if, as in the last financial law complex, there are still zero crowns extra set aside for the purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603115947	After all, we are in a good situation now that there is a proposal for adoption which is actually pushing the government to find the funds as soon as possible, and we want to help find them in the Enhedslisten, so I have a clear idea that we will find some funds under the next Finance Act or in some other way very quickly, precisely for the clean-up of generational pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120002	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120003	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Finally, the rapporteur said that when you look at the proposal for adoption, which is adopted by all parties of the Folketing, including the governing party, it says that the Danish Parliament requires the government to work to find the necessary funding as soon as possible to clean up the generational pollution. So it's quite important that this is a one-time payment and SF and Enhedslisten also answered yes to it. When you clean up, you clean up. There may still be a small amount of drift left, but there is also quite a lot of operation today. I mentioned myself that just in polite 42 people have now operated for well over 100 million. kr., and when you look at it now, it's over 7 million. kr. a year just polite 42. So this will actually also bring some savings in the long run in relation to the operational challenges that you have today. So my question to the rapporteur is simply: will the rapporteur not insist that it is a construction project with regard to the ten generation pollutions and that it will therefore not affect the structural balance and that it should therefore be much easier to implement in a financial bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120107	I would agree entirely with both the environmental and financial rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. That is why it is easier to resolve both in a financial law debate and not to go beyond minimum standards, welfare or other priority areas, and I think that this is quite essential. I therefore hope and believe that the rapporteur is right in saying that it can bring savings in the long term, but that requires us to invest now. For there are companies ready with some technology at least in parts of Denmark, and they may be able to move their business or tasks somewhere else if no priority is given now. So I think it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that we should get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120146	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120205	Thank you for that, and thank you to the parties for having raised this question debate. I was actually prepared for my colleague Katarina Ammitzbøll to take it in the Chamber today, but fortunately I made it myself, and I was able to follow the debate a little on the Danish Parliament's television. As a Conservative, we are concerned about what our conservative ancestors, or at least one of them, Edmund Burke, formulated as a generational contract. The generation contract, which I often talk about in this Chamber, is this bond of responsibility that binds generations together, from our ancestors who are no longer here, to those of us who are here today, and on to our unborn children. Normally when we talk about the generational contract, we talk about it as something positive, namely that we have a responsibility to maintain the society and the values that our ancestors have created and passed on to us. But when we talk about a generational contract and responsibility in this matter, it is, of course, about the fact that as a generation we have a responsibility to remedy the failure for which generations before us unfortunately bear a responsibility. But it will be a major failure if we do not deal with the situation today, but simply pass the problem and the bill on to the next generation. That is why we are very concerned that a solution to these generational pollutions will be found. We cannot accept that these pollutions continue to pose such a huge potential environmental problem, but we cannot be aware that thousands of Danes live with the insecurity that naturally results from having such a poison depot in the backyard or in the area where your children grow up. I don't think any of us would like that. Unfortunately, we have these ten generation pollutions in Denmark. That is a fact. You're one of them. defined by the fact that the resulting consequences of them cost more than 50 million. kr. to deal with and that they will have consequences for future generations if we do not act. That is why it is now time to take due care. As several others have also mentioned in the Chamber today, Danske Regions came back in March with their proposals in the form of a comprehensive plan for how best to tackle the task and give priority to these ten pollutants. I think it is a very good piece of work they have done, and it helps to ensure that we hopefully do not end up with a regional trench war, where there must be lobbying campaigns for who first gets a share in the funds for soil clean-up, but that it is done on a factual and professional basis. The plan from Danske Regioner is based precisely on the fact that these pollutants are at different stages. The solutions have been found for some of them, where you are actually ready to start. This applies, among other things, to: The old factory site of Cheminova, Himmark Strand, Kærgård Klitplantage etc., where you have been so enlightened as to what it is going to be and you have gained a high degree of knowledge about the future process. Then there are other pollutants, where it has to be said that there is still a need to clarify what kind of technology is the right choice here and also to have a better overview of what will be the economic consequences before we can get started. So in this way we need to prioritise, depending on what can start now and what needs further clarification. According to Danske Regioner, the plan is that within 30 years, that is to say about a generation, you will have to finish dealing with these pollutants and that the first ones will have to be completely completed after 10 years. It requires the help of the state if it is to be possible. They have currently assessed the bill to sound at approx. 2.7 billion kr., but they are also open to the fact that that amount can change as you get smarter. As a matter of principle, it is the regions that are responsible for soil clean-up, but it must be said that, given the scale of the tasks here and the budget that has to be given priority in this area, the state has to shoulder part of the responsibility and lift part of the bill. In the former bourgeois government we made a very good deal with the Danish People's Party, where we went in and prioritised funds for this here. We set aside money for it in the years up to 2030 • 600 million. kr. We know that's not enough, but it's a good start to get started, and that's if you're gonna be a little naughty, also 600 million. kr. more than what our successor has been able to find. Despite the fact that a single financial law has been drawn up and despite the fact that more agreements have been made on the economy with the regions, it is not something that has been prioritised there. However, we very much hope that today's debate will help to put pressure on the government, and I would also like to thank those parties, including the SF and the Left, who have put a great deal of work into putting that pressure in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120709	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120721	Thank you for the floor. Today we have a challenge with generational pollution, and it is a regrettable bill that we are facing. Unfortunately, pollution has arisen at a time of much less stringent environmental regulation than what we have today. The generational pollution is characterised by cost-effectiveness, and the clean-up typically takes many years. So there is no quick fix to handle the contamination. New citizens think it is good civil environmental policy that we are dealing with this. It is part of the generational contract that we resolve this rather than simply passing it on to future generations. Some of these pollutants are back before I was born. It's time we got a plan to clean them up. The task of soil pollution must also be seen in a context, whether it is generational pollution or less soil pollution. This ensures that the worst soil pollution is dealt with first and that we get the most environment for the money. New citizens agree that it is essential to secure an extra and separate appropriation. Thus, the financing of the soil pollution area can focus efforts on the protection of groundwater, nature and health. As well as the small amounts of soil pollution such as the generational pollution, more rapid action is required from the regions and local authorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120842	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603120855	Thank you for the floor. I have had a little difficulty in coming up with what I should say in relation to the question here, because nobody thinks that it is a great idea to have generational pollution for just exactly generations. Unemployed positions are therefore typically vacant for good reason, and this means that most people will have to give a variant over the same speech. Generational pollution is what one might call stray problems. They have arisen as a result of decisions which, for the most part, were legal at the time they were taken and, apart from that, the decision-makers today are in the cemetery, and whether the dead should be spoken nicely. Under no circumstances can they respond. Why, then, is it that not one of the many governments has been sitting since the generational pollution was recognised that has undertaken to address the problems? I think this is because generational pollution is one of a class of problems that are not prestigious in solving. So what are these problems? These are chronic problems that bother many people to a limited extent. Undersized water distractions many people to a limited extent. Undersized sewers are bothering many people to a limited extent. Weary railways bother many people to a limited extent, and so do generational pollutions. One could also just simplify it and say that the class of problems we are dealing with are unparalleled problems. I think that in the future the Folketing should have a week, like week 10, where there is such a fixed ritual for what all people are doing, and the fixed week, which should not then be in week 10, could then be a week when everyone had the consciousness directed towards chronic problems, which bother many people to a limited extent, and where we did nothing but hold debates on unsexed problems and make funded plans to solve them. Because in reality, chronic problems that bother many people to a limited extent are really major problems. But we really appreciate this debate. I am pleased to be able to agree to a solution to a problem raised by my good friend Steen Gade, with which, unfortunately, I never sat in the Folketing. We support the launch of a process of funding to remedy the problems and, of course, we support the proposal for adoption which has already been read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121215	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister for the Environment, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121224	Thank you for that and also thank all the parties for a good debate and also for being united on a proposal for adoption here in the Danish Parliament today. Because, as I can also listen to, there is agreement that we are faced with these ten-generation pollutions, which are major pollutions that we inherited from the past and which have arisen at a time when the legislation was not in place. And it is in the regions that they must map, investigate and clean up where necessary, and it is important for both me and the government, as we have also mentioned, that we should give priority to dealing with and cleaning up these generational pollutions, as is also written in the understanding paper. As several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a major task; it is also a costly task, and it is also a long-term task. But what the regions themselves have written in their papers is that it may take many decades. It is the case today that the regions spend almost 0.5 billion. kr. every year in this area, but even with such a large grant, they go in and prioritise in relation to both our groundwater, our environment and human health. And we have also mentioned that the generational pollution is different and there is a great difference in how far it has been achieved. For some, prevention solutions have been established, for others there is monitoring because there is no acute threat, and again there are others where pollution leaks into a stream or in groundwater. And that's also why I've asked the regions to come up with an overall plan, where you'll just get a look at how you can actually get on with this task, which has now been a nuisance to many local people living close to these pollutants. And the aim of asking the regions to make that plan was to create a basis for both transparent prioritising and future planning of action. Now we have a paper from the regions with the knowledge we have about the generational pollution today, which is a starting point for further discussions. And I fully share the concerns that have also been expressed in this Chamber today in relation to the generational pollution, and that is also why we are working on it. We have retained the regional funding for the soil pollution task, which is about 0.5 billion. kr. We say very openly and frankly that it will require further priority if we are to clean up that pollution. But I would also like to say that there are also some things that have been said in this Chamber, with which I obviously do not agree, because 40 million have been allocated. kr. On this year's Finance Act, 65 million have been found. kr. in the regional agreement which has just been concluded in relation to surface water. So we've started the work. We have also found extra money for MUDP, which is part of the solution. As several of you have also mentioned, if we're actually gonna do this job, we need new technology. We have seen that some of the money that has been given to MUDP projects is actually helping to ensure that we can now move on, and I think that is quite important to make that clear today. So the clean-up of the generational pollution is an important issue and also a very big task, which I can then note that we in the Danish Parliament broadly agree that we now need to move on. This work will, of course, be done on the basis of the professional priorities of the regions. That is also what I have said all the way through. However, we are now taking up the further work, including the work to find the necessary funding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121628	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121631	Thank you for your answer. Now we have put forward a proposal for adoption by a unanimous Parliament, among which it, among other things. According to the Danish Parliament, the government is required to work to find the necessary funding as soon as possible for the clean-up of generational pollutions. How does the Minister see this when we in Parliament instruct the government to work as soon as possible to find funding? Is it on the Finance Act for the coming year? Or can the Minister imagine that one can say that as soon as possible or how does the Minister see the proposal for adoption made today by a unanimous Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121719	Firstly, I welcome the fact that it is a broad Parliament that agrees that this is an important task. And social democracy is also part of that proposal for adoption. In other words, it is all the parties in the Danish Parliament that sign it, and there it is in black and white, that is to say what the rapporteur is asking, namely that we must find the necessary funding to clean up as quickly as possible on the basis of the professional priorities of the regions. And that is what we are in the process of doing, and that is what is black and white in the proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121753	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121755	So let me ask you a little more specifically: can the Minister then guarantee that on the initiative of the government to the Financial Act 2021, additional funds will be allocated for cleaning up after generational pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121810	Although I can understand the great wish of the Left that the government should present its draft budget today, that is not the case. That is why I think we must also insist that we agree in this way that this is a major task; that it will require a separate appropriation. This is something that we, as a party in the Social Democratic Party, have signed up to, as it were, in the motion for a resolution before us. We also have it in our understanding paper. We have taken up the task, and that work continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121841	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121843	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. We've been fighting this fight for years. Well, we're some people who grew up in the Grindsted area and still have the smell in their noses of how it smells, and there's a huge group of citizens who've been fighting this fight for years. I would like to try to make it a little more concrete in relation to what the Minister says, because there are many people waiting for us to take a real step forward. So when the Minister says that the Minister promises that the necessary funding will be found, what does the Minister think is the necessary funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603121933	Thank you. First of all, I have full respect for all the citizens' groups who are very committed to this. I myself have had the opportunity to meet with a few of them, and we can also see that some are following the debate here today. So I fully understand that, and also for all the members of parliament who live and whom Mrs Anni Matthiesen has grown up close to such pollution. It is clear that it makes it very important to include those concerns in this Chamber too, so I have full respect for that. That is why I have a clear feeling on top of this question debate that it is something that the Danish Parliament is very much concerned about, and that is why we have written in the paper of understanding, and in the motion for a resolution today, that the task is precisely to find funding for cleaning up on the basis of the regions' professional priorities, and that is what we are doing. However, as has also been mentioned on the platform today, the task is, of course, also where that funding is found, and I am very happy to listen if it is the case that the Left has some good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122042	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122043	It can be said that in today's debate some good things have come out, which I also hope the Minister will go along with, because in the end I think this is actually an investment that will come back, perhaps even in several ways. And as far as you're around, in terms of finding ways to make the cleanups, who knows if it might be, we can actually benefit greatly from it in the end compared to good export opportunities in this area. So a little more concrete, dear Minister, there are many fine words, many nice words, both in the understanding paper and elsewhere, but it doesn't save anything if you don't put it into practice. How much money does the Minister think is the necessary funding when the Minister says so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122129	First of all, I fully agree. I think that some of the technology developments that we can see have become, among other things. on the basis of MUDP support, because it is also one of the things you can export abroad, where you are faced with similar pollutions, and where you may even not have done it in such a way that the polluter pays, but thus can see that there are very large pollutions. So I quite agree with that. In relation to the second part, that is to say the financing part, the whole exercise with the plan that I also asked Danske Regions for, is to find out how we can actually ensure transparency about priorities, how we can move forward and how the regions with the expertise they have in looking at health, groundwater and nature can help to prioritise that money. And these are some of the questions I have put to the paper we have received from Danske Regions, but I think, as I said, that is a good starting point, also for the further work that we are about to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122222	Thank you. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122224	With all due respect, Minister, there is no tidying up by the Minister speaking and not acting. We need action, and today, with the question debate, a majority has succeeded in avoiding the government from imposing it on the government. I understand that the government has agreed to the proposal for adoption, and that is wonderful, because then we can hope that something will start to happen soon. As recently as today, the Region of Southern Denmark and the municipality of Sønderborg have proposed, in relation to the 10th generation pollution at Himmark Strand at Nordals, that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency should dig away the entire pollution. This is both in the light of the feasibility study from Rambøll and also in the light of the fact that once and for all the investment is being made to clean up and that the large workplace-creating project around the holiday centre, which is planned right near where there is now a ban on bathing due to the generational pollution, can also be started. I think there are a lot of people out there who would like to know in concrete terms and not just in loose rubber band form when the Minister wants to allocate the money needed to clean up. Is it on the forthcoming Finance Act? Or are we gonna be standing here in a year and still listening to talk? I would just like to ask the Minister quite specifically: can people at Himmark Strand and at the other nine generational pollutions expect the Minister to place money on the financial law of the year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122341-2	There are two things. Firstly, I do not think that the questioner is fully up to date with regard to the proposal for adoption. At least I am aware of something that the Social Democrats agreed with the SF on, and so the Left agrees with it. It's actually fine, and peace be with it. Secondly, to the point of saying that the government has now been pushed into something: we have written it into our understanding paper that we agree that it is a priority to deal with and clean up these pollutants. So instead of digging further ditches, I think it should be welcomed that we agree together here in the Folketing that this is an important priority. But what also goes with wanting to do so is precisely the funding. And the fact that some things are said several times in this Chamber does not mean that this is true, among other things. the fact that no money has been set aside, because money has been set aside in this year's Finance Act. But I have noted that the questioner mentions several times that it is not there, but there is. It is true, then, that there is still a great deal of work ahead of us, but that is what we, as a government, also support in the proposal for adoption today, namely that we must find the necessary funding as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122455	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122456	One can certainly make a lot of fun about how the text of the proposal for adoption has developed. The minister can dig in that at another time. I would just like to ask the Minister to answer what was my question. It is well known to all that the 40 million. kr., which lies on the current year's Finance Act, and for which the Minister would very much like to take credit, is money that the former government, the VLAK government, placed together with the Danish People's Party. In fact, we set aside up to 600 million. kr. to clean up after the generational pollution. I specifically asked the Minister: can the people who are at Himmark Strand and who want to clean up there, and the people who are at Grassted, courtesy of 42 and the other generational pollutions, expect the Minister, in August of the draft budget put forward by the government, to have set aside money for cleaning up? That is a concrete question. I hope the Minister will respond in this round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122544	Now I myself have also been down to see the pollution at Himmark Strand, and I am glad that we have moved on in that cover too. It has also been part of the whole exercise the regions have already done a lot of work to create transparency about what needs to be done. And I have seen the answer, but the questioner is not satisfied with the answer. That's another way of saying it. However, as I have just said, the government is not putting forward its draft budget in the Chamber today. Does this change that this is a major task that we have tackled and that we will continue to work on? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122618	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122620	The minister must be able to respond. The minister is saying that this text is one that the government has made and that the rest of the Danish Parliament has joined. Okay, then we recognize it. But then the Minister must be able to explain what is meant as soon as possible. It has been asked whether it is the budget law for 2021, that is to say next year, but then the Minister says that the Minister cannot answer that question. So is it only in 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 what is as soon as possible? As soon as possible, then, must be future Finance Act! Can the Minister confirm or deny that the government believes that as soon as possible is in 2021, i.e. the forthcoming financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122658	I can hear that there is some impatience, and that is fair enough. We have also been debating here today how important this task is, we have said that it is something that we are doing, and the regions have delivered part of the work, and we are continuing to look at it because, as the rapporteur himself has said, it is also a costly task which also extends over many years. So it is quite fair for the Danish People's Party to say that something must be done now. But I have not heard the Danish People's Party itself today make a bid on how much money should be set aside and where that money should come from. However, we have, together, written a text for adoption today that we need to find the necessary funding as soon as possible, but that does not mean that we are putting forward a financial bill today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122746	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122747	The minister can't stand by and say it's the government that made this up. The reality is, of course, that the government has been pressured into what is stated in this resolution. But if we now insist that the government itself has thought of writing as soon as possible, then the government must be able to answer what is as soon as possible when the minister stands and takes credit for the government proposing this wording. What's as soon as possible? Is it 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 or 2025? Then I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has clearly indicated that we know the price and that it is 2.7 billion. kr. We are here, as we are, with the plan for how we can carry it out, and we know that three of the projects can be launched now. We're ready. The government with the green mandate is ready? Doesn't sound like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122831	When you quote someone, you have to do it right, I think, and I didn't say the government made it up. But what was put in our mouths was that all of a sudden we had to say that it was the Left and the SF who had made that text, and that was what we had agreed to. And there's just the thing I'm saying, there's probably a couple of middle bills there. But peace be with it. What I asked the Danish People's Party was how to finance it. I am, in fact, very sensitive to this, in other words, if it is the case that you have good ideas about it, because, as we have said, that is of course what is difficult in this debate too. But we fully acknowledge that this is an important task. We are working on the plan, we have set aside money for this year's financial law, both for the generational pollution part, for MUDP and now, most recently, for the agreement with the regions, i.e. 65 million. kr. surface water.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122923	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603122924	I think it is quite fair that we can disagree politically, and I also think it is very good that we can reach each other in compromises. But I think there must also be such a fundamental principle as a colleague that we must honour those who should be honoured, and I must therefore admit that I am provoked by the fact that the Minister is so busy taking credit for this proposal for adoption. Because I was contacted by the Social Democratic Party about a proposal for adoption that looked significantly different from what we have ended up with today. It did not say that the government would be required to do something as soon as possible, but it said that it would be called upon to do so by the government. There we all know that in politics there is a significant difference between whether we are calling for something or whether we are imposing something. It was the first draft that came from the Social Democratic Party, to which I kindly refused, and to which many others also kindly refused, and that is why the Social Democrats and the government could have to go where the majority was. Would the Minister please honor those who should be honored? And in this case, it's the Left and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123028	I'd love to, and I'm not trying to take credit for anything. I am just saying that if the rapporteur adds a few extra bills, I do not think it is appropriate. However, I am very pleased that both the SF, who have been fighting for this matter for a long time, are also what we have heard from the SF's rapporteur, but also the Left has taken the initiative for this debate, and I think it has been a good debate. I also sense that we in the Folketing broadly agree that this is an important area and that, as is also stated in the proposal for adoption, which is a majority for today, there is precisely a need for extraordinary funding if we are to clean up the major pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123109	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left, finishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123123	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the debate, not least thanks to the SF's chairman, who is also present, and especially thanks to Mrs Signe Munk for her excellent cooperation throughout, since we took the initiative on this question, and, of course, during those, one can say, confidential debates, which I should certainly not disclose from here the floor, how the various texts have been driven back and forth, but that we have been able to have this debate and this debate and that, in fact, I think, really, very fine discussion and also what it is doing, namely that a united Parliament can now require the government to work to find the necessary funding as quickly as possible to clean up generational pollutions based on the professional priorities of the regions, I think it has actually gone a great deal. It is not because I have to praise myself, but I am also just passing the rose on to the good colleagues, not least Mrs Signe Munk. The task, as several people have said, is enormous, and it is not new, and unfortunately it is getting bigger and bigger if we do not do something. That is why, as you know, we ourselves have set aside some funds because we had the power of government, that is not enough, but something. There have then been two options for economic agreements under the current government to do something in relation to the agreements that are being made with the regions, which are, after all, the ones that are responsible, and nothing came out. There was a Finance Act last year which applies to this year, which did not produce any results either, and so there had to be a question debate with a single Parliament to push the government into the field, so that we can now finally get the work started, because it is in progress, but it is still going on and continue the work and gladly intensify the work. Then, of course, it is a little too bad and that is perhaps what I am left with in addition to the roses that the Minister, despite the fact that a unified Parliament will require the government to work as soon as possible to find the necessary funding, so will not guarantee that it will happen in the forthcoming Finance Act. I think that is somewhat paradoxical, if not as quickly as possible, then it is the first real opportunity, which is the budget law for 2021. In view of the fact that the Danish Parliament is now instructing the government and the Minister to do so as soon as possible, the Minister cannot guarantee that it will remain under the Finance Act. That is why, of course, I am counting on it, because I do not have the feeling and expectation that the Left will be a central part of the financial legislation negotiations, and that, of course, I am annoyed, but it is probably realistic to look down towards Mrs Mai Villadsen and Mrs Signe Munk, and now Mrs Zenia Stampe is not here, but then the Radicals, that it is the supporting parties that need to use this as a crowbar, if you like, to get through so that we can actually do what we want here, namely that there will be necessary funding to clean up the generational pollution from what the regions have given priority. That is the conclusion I have. One thing is, with all due respect for what is stated in the understanding paper and there can be a great deal of fine things, and we have also seen on previous occasions that a whole lot of commitment has been made to a government basis, so as to run away from the afterwards, but I do not think that they know the ten areas we are now talking about with the generational pollutions, and they in thousands of other places around Denmark, where they live with and beside soil pollutions of different sizes, can use some words in an understanding paper to a great deal, to say it now as it is. I don't think so. I believe that what they can do with something is that some people are actually putting action behind those words, and I hope there is in fact that the proposal for adoption which we have been presented here and which we then decide is precisely helping to create the momentum for the people who live out there who live with the uncertainty and insecurity, but also, of course, for the environment, the aquatic environment and the nature that we are all working with each one of our beaks to protect and do something good for. So that must be my conclusion on the basis of a fine debate, I think, where things, the discussions, have of course gone high, but that is fortunately, and fortunately we can also get together. We have done so here, and we have not just come together in such a majority, but, in fact, with a united Parliament which is now, to repeat it, perhaps for the fifth time, instructing the government to work to find the necessary funding as soon as possible for the clean-up of generational pollutions based on the professional priorities of the regions. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123600	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123605	Thank you, and I would also like to thank the Left and the rapporteur for a good debate and for the initiative to call this debate. I think it is important that we look forward. After all, the rapporteur himself is rather polemical in the chair and refers to funding and that the previous government, unlike the current one, had presented funding. But would the rapporteur not, for all of us, state to me whether these 600 million have been mentioned here? kr. Should the regions be closed down and centralized? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123645	As I said in my first answer, Mr. Troels Ravn asked me exactly the same question, so I can refer to the agreement made by the then VLAK government together with the Danish People's Party, and there was a majority for that before the parliamentary elections. There was then no majority in favour of implementing it after the parliamentary elections, and that is, of course, the rules of democracy. Nevertheless, that was where you were, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out the financing that was possible under the dynamic rules, which, moreover, was what the Socialist Government, when it last had power, introduced as the comme il faut, in terms of how to assess and thus allocate funds for other purposes, when they are found in other ways. So that is what I can refer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123723	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123724	But that's 600 million. kr., which must be considered as being, yes, birds on the roof; matador money also calls it. But now that we are looking forward, would the rapporteur not agree that it has been a breakthrough, that we have a government which, together with its support parties, writes in its understanding paper that we want to deal with generational pollution, that we want to find funding, that we want to take responsibility and that we want to clean up? Is it not a historic break with today's debate, in which we have an agreement text which obliges the whole parliament to participate in financing and by means of financial laws? Isn't that a new break and a step in the right direction? I could then end by asking the rapporteur what the Left Party intends to bring to the negotiating table at the financial law negotiations. How much money can the Left find and where should they be taken from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123825	I think there were three or four questions in it, and now I'll be brief in 30 seconds. No, it is absolutely not a new break or a decisive turn of events in this debate that one has written it down in an understanding paper, with all due respect. I have seen an understanding paper, also from the former S-government, where everything was written between heaven and earth, 12 minutes of work, pay rings, and we remember it all, and none of it came to pass. So I do not give much for that; I'm sorry, sir. Troels Ravn, I don't. What I am giving something for is the fact that today, in agreement, the Folketing adopts a text requiring the government to make a difference. I give you something for that, and I trust that you will live up to it. At any rate, I intend to work on everything I can from the position I now have, that what is written here is being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603123909	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday, 4 June 2020. The sitting is adjourned. We'll start again at 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130003	The sitting is resumed. I have to inform you that there has been a questioner, Morten Messerschmidt (DF), on question No. 3 (S 1320) to the Minister for Finance. I should also like to inform you that there has been a questioner, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), on question No. 8 (S 1309) to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. I have to inform you that I have a question to put to you. 9 and 10 (S 1292 and S 1293) to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, Sophie Løhde, will be removed at the request of the co-author himself. I should like to inform you that there has been a questioner, Ellen Trane Nørby (V), on question No. 17 (S 1316) to the Minister for Children and Education. Finally, I should like to inform you that Mr Per Larsen's report under No. 20 questions raised by the Minister for Education and Research (S 1284) will be answered at the request of the author. The question shall be put to the vote on Wednesday 10 June 2020. We shall then proceed to answer questions sent to the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130052	The first question is by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130102	Here you go, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130104	Thank you, sir. President. Will the Minister state whether the economic agreement ensures that the municipalities can subsequently cover the private day-off services themselves, private institutions, etc. March 2020 has stated that this part of the bill will be taken on board. It is not something that municipalities and regions should then have hanging over their shoulders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130132	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130133	Thank you. The government and the National Association of Municipalities have agreed a few days ago that the municipalities will be compensated for a total of 2.6 billion. kr. in 2020 to deal with extra and minor expenditure related to covid-19, and this is on the basis of the preliminary figures. Of these, the government has indicated that the municipalities are compensated by approx. 0.4 billion kr. in 2020 for additional cleaning costs in municipal and private welfare services, differentiated parental payments in day-to-day services in connection with the reopening and cost of isolation facilities. The amount of compensation has been agreed with the National Association of Municipalities, and it is therefore also the Government's expectation that the agreed compensation will be sufficient to cover the municipal additional and minor costs related to the covid-19, including the additional costs of the private day offers in connection with the reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130229	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130230	Thank you for that answer. Then I hope that the Minister will also be able to say how and when the private and self-serving institutions will then also receive some money, as many of the municipal institutions have done. We have been able to read about this, both in the media, but, as such, we have also been able to look at the agendas of the various municipal councils, which have already been compensated, i.e. where equipment has been provided, where extra cleaning has been paid and where temporary work hours have been bought, so that additional educational staff were present in relation to also meeting the health guidelines. On the other hand, in more or less all municipalities, the self-employed and the private institutions have so far had to start on this account themselves. They have received zero help and zero compensation. So a very specific question for the Minister of Finance is: how will the Minister of Finance and the government now follow up on the fact that there is also real financial compensation for the private and self-owned institutions, as we have agreed in the political agreement we reached on 22 April and which should be followed up in the economic agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130333	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130334	As I have said, we have made an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities a few days ago, which fully delivers on what the government has promised, namely that the extraordinary costs associated with covid-19 are not something that should mean that you have to make savings elsewhere in the municipalities. Specifically, it can be said that the block grant act is expected to be adopted on 25 June, after which the municipalities will be able to dispose of the funds from 1 September. So from then on, the municipalities have the opportunity to spend the money we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130407	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130407-2	Yes, it is also very fine, but there are a large number of institutions out there who have taken bank loans and right now have the costs without having received a single penny in compensation, while they can look over at their municipal colleagues and see that they have already received compensation from the municipality. There's a town fund like a bank. That is why, as both the Minister for Children and Education and the Minister for Finance have also said, there is a need for speed in this, so that the municipalities also adopt the supplementary budgets which make it possible to compensate for the cleaning bill of private operators, and I would really like to ask the Minister for Finance how the Minister for Finance is really following up on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130445	Now there is municipal self-government in this country, which means that it is the responsibility of the municipalities and the task of ensuring that the money that has now been obtained in the agreement made with the state comes to the institutions as soon as possible. I can imagine nothing more than that when the money enters the account, we will also very quickly ensure that it is taken to those places that have a need and also have an expectation of getting some expenditure covered on the basis of any agreements we have made. So the money's ready for you. 1 September, and then it is up to the municipalities to put them into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130523	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130527	Thank you. In other words, it is very good with good intentions and also a confidence that the municipalities are doing what they ought to do, but I think that in here we have also stated that the Minister is taking responsibility for their being compensated. And right now, the institutions are out there with no assurance that the municipalities are actually doing so, and without any assurance of how much money is coming out to the individual institution. After all, they can walk around and just hope and wait for the municipalities to pull themselves together for this. What does the Minister intend to do in order to ensure that the municipalities actually carry out the task which they are quite rightly obliged to undertake?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130605	I have made it quite concrete to ensure that they have received the money; that is what I have agreed with the municipalities. Now it is up to the Folketing to take care of the next part, namely to approve the act that will allow the check to be sent. Hopefully it will fall into place within a few days, and then the money will be available to the municipalities per year. September 1st. And it is part of the agreement we have made with the municipalities that they have to be used to cover the extraordinary costs that you have, because of the covid-19 and that applies both to the costs that you have in relation to your own offers and to the costs of the other offers you use.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130645	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130646	I have no doubt that we will have to approve in here that the money should be sent out. I think that there will be a broad consensus on that when we get there, but it just does not help the private institutions if the money does not move forward. So what are the private institutions that now stand out there and lack the money because they have laid it out because they have spent it? Where are they going? And how are they supposed to be sure they're actually gonna get some of this money? For there is nothing written in the agreement with the municipalities about how much of this money is going to go out to the individual institutions; that is such a total amount. So how much money is it supposed to go to these institutions, and how do they get them out there? And what do they have to do to make sure they get that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130725	In other words, we have made an agreement with the municipalities where they have said what they have had of extraordinary expenses, and this applies to their overall portfolio, both in relation to the offers that the municipalities themselves make and in relation to private offers. That amount has been crowned, and then it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the money is spent as we have agreed. In concrete terms, the government has indicated that the municipalities are being compensated by 0.4 billion. kr. in 2020 for additional costs for cleaning, municipal and private welfare services, differentiated parental payments in day-to-day services in connection with the reopening and cost of isolation facilities. So the money is there, and now it is up to the municipalities to ensure that it is spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130809	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130814	Thank you. In other words, when you are a self-serving day-care institution which already has a large number of additional costs, it is fine that you have been able to read both the political agreement we reached on 22 April, where this was also an element, and now you can read an economic agreement where it is also an element, but no matter how many agreements we have made in here, they have still not seen any money or any help out there. That is why it is necessary for the Minister of Finance to give a specific answer in this Chamber as to how the government will follow up on the fact that in all 98 municipalities there will be a payment to the private and self-governing institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130854	We have not only in words but also in deeds ensured that you can do exactly that. That is why we have made an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, where we set the money off for it. Rightly, that deal was made just before Pentecost. Now it has to be in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee, where it has to be approved, and once that has happened, the money comes out to the municipalities per year. 1 September, and then you can start to pay the costs that may have been incurred. It is, in fact, no more difficult than that. This is a government that has delivered completely on what it has promised and, of course, so it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130929	The question is over. We shall continue with a question to the Minister for Finance, also put by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. But now the co-questioner is Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130939	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130941	Can the Minister state whether the private day-offer services of the self-employed day-care institutions, private institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603130955-2	After all, it is the municipalities that finance the municipal and private day-to-day services, which is why the government has also decided that the municipal and private day-to-day services will be compensated for their additional costs during the reopening of the economic agreement. We have a total of 2.6 billion. kr. at the disposal of the municipalities for the management of extra and minor costs related to covid-19, and as I mentioned in my previous reply, it is both in relation to the municipalities' own offers and also in relation to private offers. The municipalities have signed up for their extraordinary expenses, and we have made the money available, and now it is up to the municipalities to ensure that they reach the relevant institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131038	Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131039	Thank you for your answer. It is okay to say from the political point of view and from the government that it is now up to the municipalities to ensure that it comes out to the relevant institutions, but we have, of course, reached a political agreement where it is included, and the Finance Minister himself has also said to Jyllands-Posten that there should be no institutions left out there with an extra bill which was not covered, because we took care of it, understood as the Community. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee for the institutions that currently have a high cost of alcohol, for extra cleaning and for additional educational staff in the context of the guidelines that have been in the area of day-care, and that is why I really need to hear about something from the Minister. After all, we know that the Socialist Government has ideologically opposed our self-serving and our private day institutions, but we also had a political agreement before and on top of all this corona closure, namely that it should not be ideology that influenced who was paid their additional costs. That's why we keep drilling in this. For right now there are some institutions that have not received a penny of their bill, and so I would really like to ask whether, when the Minister now sends the record to the Folketing, the Minister will also ensure that there is a condition in the record that in order for the municipalities to be able to get their share of the 400 million. kr., which then accounts for additional costs in 2020, is also compensated proportionately for the private and self-owned institutions in the municipality concerned. Otherwise, we are in the same position, and then we are in the situation that the political intentions are fine, but when it comes to coinage to the specific institutions, you can see as a private and self-serving institution in a municipality that you are still left with an extra bill. I hope the Minister will be able to give a clear answer to that here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131222	We have made an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, which covers the total cost of the 98 municipalities in connection with the covid-19. That's what the government put in view, and we've delivered on that. I have to say that I cannot in any way recognize the idea that this government should have an ideological opposition to private or self-serving institutions, because they are doing a fine and good job in addition to the other offer we have. And when it comes to covid-19, I think that whether it's a private, self-owned or public institution, we're all in the same boat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131303	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131304	I will then choose to take this down positively in the sense that then I also hope that the Minister will also ensure that what was the political agreement is fulfilled, namely that there should not be private and self-serving institutions as well as municipal institutions left with the bill for example. extra cleaning, extra educational staff, etc. That is why I would like to ask again in concrete terms whether the Minister for Finance, in the act which will then be dealt with in the Folketing, will consider making it a condition that, in line with the agreement that we have made, the private and self-serving institutions should, of course, be treated equally in the same way as the municipal institutions are reimbursed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131342	I have no reason to believe that the municipalities will not seriously and properly achieve equality between public, private and self-serving institutions, and the amount that has been set aside is to cover the total bill for the municipalities. It is certainly above the block subsidy, that is. to the municipalities under one, and then it is up to each municipality to carry it out in practice. This is how the agreement is made and the agreement made with the municipalities is, of course, also the one that will be sent over as an act to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131416	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Stén Knuth. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131419	Thank you. I am not going to entertain the Minister that I have actually been mayor at some point and still away sitting on the city council in Slagelse. We have experienced a great deal of confusion in terms of how we should compensate the private ones in particular. I'd like to pursue what Ellen Trane Nørby's onto. Can the Minister confirm, and this is a concern I have, that an agreement can be made in the Folketing that private individuals should be compensated, but that the municipalities can actually just say: well, we do not really want to follow that, because we also have municipal autonomy? Is it the case that the agreement I have made here does not necessarily have to be followed by a municipality, because then the municipal politicians say: we do not want to give it to the private institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131512	It is also clear from what I have said in the past that we have given money to cover the bills which are both for public institutions, but also for private and self-serving institutions. This is what gives the total bill that we, the state, have told the local authorities' association that we are covering in connection with the municipal negotiations. Then it is also the case that a former mayor, and it is a fine title to have in many contexts, is aware that we are giving a block grant to the municipalities under one, and then it is up to the individual municipality to deal with the matters of the 98 local realities that are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131553	Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131554	So just one more time: can the Minister confirm that the agreement I have been involved in here in the Folketing should not in fact be
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131606	The agreements we make with each other in the Folketing are, of course, our goal. At the same time, it is also the case that we have made an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities on the total economy of the municipalities, which includes that there are some extraordinary expenses for covid-19. This applies to the public institutions, to the private institutions, and to the self-serving institutions. The total bill that is there is the one to which we have set money, and therefore the municipalities have the opportunity to pay both the public, the private and the self-serving.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131637	Then it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131643	Thank you. I started now by being positive and pleased with the Minister's reply. Now I'm just left with the idea that the deal we've made with the government isn't worth anything. We have made an agreement that the private and the self-serving should also be compensated. What the Minister of Finance is saying now is that if there is a Social Democratic mayor out there who has a horn in the side of the private and self-owned institutions, then it is quite okay that the municipality in question does not pay the Coronaire bill for the private and self-owned institutions in that municipality. That is not good enough and it is not acceptable and we will pursue it further. I hope that the Minister for Finance can say in his last reply that this is not how we should understand the Minister for Finance's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131724	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131725	There is no way I can recognize the interpretation of what I have said. What I have said is that we have talked to the municipalities about what the total bill is, and this applies both to public institutions, private institutions and self-serving institutions. That is where we have reached the amount. That's what you've got. That is why I have a very clear expectation that the municipalities will pay to public, private and self-serving institutions, and I cannot understand why they are trying to whip up a mood for which I do not think there is any evidence whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131756	Thank you. The question is over. Now it's from mr. Peter Skaarup, and co-author is Mr. Skaarup. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131807	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131810	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's view that the welfare of the Danes must be reduced in order to finance Denmark's contribution to the EU's new corona fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131823	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131824	Thank you. Let me start by stating that the government is prepared to show solidarity with the other European countries. That is also why we have supported far-reaching and large-scale measures, and we are also ready for further action. Foreign trade is crucial to Danish prosperity, and this is particularly true of exports to the internal market, which accounts for more than half of total Danish exports. In the past, it has been estimated that more than 300,000 Danish jobs are linked to exports to the internal market. Therefore, we both have an interest in helping because it is friends, but we also have an interest in helping because it is customers in relation to Danish companies and Danish products. You can then help in different ways. The way we think is the best way to help, for example. loans are that the European Union can help to obtain better loan conditions, including for those countries that are in difficulty, but that it is a healthy principle that the countries that take the loans are also the ones that pay them back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131926	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603131927	Thank you. I can well understand the thinking of the Finance Minister and the government, in that if it is finally to be, loans are better than gifts to the countries of southern Europe, not least because it has been shown that the countries of southern Europe have had very little control over their economies. That is also what hits them twice, it can be said, now that we have had the corona, which affects all the economies of the countries, but, above all, it is critical that the southern European countries are as weak as they are. Then you can discuss back and forth who's gonna pay for that bill. For the Danish People's Party, it is clear that it cannot be right that when we say to many Danes that they must keep to the fact that they must live with different limitations in different ways • older people who do not always get the care and care that we want to give them • we must give them very large funds because they have not managed their own economy. Yesterday, after all, we saw a draft EU budget that would only result if Denmark were to pay up to 7 billion. kr. extra annually to the European Union to finance, first and foremost, ills in southern Europe. There is my question to the Minister for Finance. We tried last week too, but there was little answer from this: will Denmark stand firm that it does not kr. Will Denmark stand firm in a way where it is quite clear to the other countries that we will not participate in this, in the utmost consequence by vetoing a budget that looks as crazy as what is on the table now? So, Minister of Finance, will Denmark veto us? Could we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132131	I very much agree with Mr. Peter Skaarup in saying that the budgets to be made in the EU must be sensible. What has been put forward seems to us to be a budget that spends far too much money. This is also why we in Denmark, together with other countries, including Denmark, have been involved. Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands are on what is called the budget-restrictive side. That means that we are some of those who say hoof, hoof and stand on the brake. I can promise the questioner that we will continue to do so. We fight hard for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132208	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132209	That's not what I asked. That was a little the same answer we received last week, and I do not think that is satisfactory. I think that the government must at least be able to tell the Danish Parliament, and thus the citizens, that it will be so firm that this is not a gift to us that we are vetoing a budget which means that the Danes must put out with an extra 7 billion. kr. annual. Will the government stand firm to veto a budget that is so crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132242	The government firmly believes that we will have a more sensible EU budget, where, firstly, we will not spend as much money as some would like, and secondly, the money in the budget will spend more wisely, among other things. in the area of green transition and in relation to migration challenges and other challenges facing Europe. We fight for this every day and in close coordination with other countries. However, our starting point is, by its very nature, that we find a negotiated solution with the others, and that is where we hope that they will listen to our, we think, sensible views. That's what we're using our powers for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132319	Then it's the co-questioner. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132321	Well, it's a pleasure to have a debate with the Minister of Finance. I'm sure if you could wind up the Olympics, he'd receive a gold medal in both back crawl and outside talk. So let me try to ask you something which may be more difficult not to answer, namely that part of the proposal which Mr. Peter Skaarup mentions from the Commission, based on the fact that the EU is now about to levy taxes directly. This is the kind of thing that, I think, can keep a lot of people awake at night. One thing is that you have a very left-wing majority in Christiansborg, which can tighten the tax screw, but that the European Union must start to put the trunk directly into the pockets of citizens and companies and could levy taxes entirely without a majority in parliament, is scary indeed. And so I would just like to hear when the Minister does not want to say anything about this veto and how much one wants to live with: can we be absolutely sure that the Danish Finance Minister does not agree that the EU should be able to levy taxes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132419	First of all, I would like to sign for the Olympic medals from my colleague. I would say that I believe that a gold medal would also be appropriate in relation to oratorial flame speeches, but it is only good that there will be some life in the rags, including in the parliamentary debates. In other words, when it comes to tax collection and other matters, the government basically thinks that it is something that belongs in the Member States that they must take care of it. Then there is a debate on what is called own resources in the European Union, and there is
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132501	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132502	But being restrained is not necessarily enough. So, I assume that the Minister for Finance is of course aware that Denmark and the Minister for Finance are under tremendous pressure. After all, only 4 out of 27 countries have been able to come together in what the Minister of Finance calls reason. And if we're going to stay in the sports metaphors, it's going to be 4 to 23. It is rare that it ends well in such a fight, I have the impression; I do not think it ends with a gold medal. That is why we need to know quite clearly: does the government veto new EU taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132536	But I think it's a little too bad that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is so pessimistic that four countries can actually make an impression on other countries. I freely recognise that there is a majority of countries that want something other than what Denmark wants. However, I think we have strong arguments, and we also have some good allies in the Netherlands and Sweden and in Austria, and I actually believe that other countries have some of the same concerns. So we will clearly work to ensure in budget-restrictive approaches that the money is spent sensibly and not just making new revenue one way or another to pump up an EU budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132618	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132621	I would just like to add to our good remarks here by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt to try to illustrate a little to the Minister of Finance what you are up against. I think the Minister for Finance knows that, but the fact is that in Europe we have a great economic locomotive in Germany, which has stood at a crossroads and had to decide whether to do one thing or the other, and now we have decided that money will be distributed to southern Europe, because it is evidently thought to be positive. You've made a partnership with France. And then we have four small countries, you might say that in this context there is something else. Why does the Minister of Finance think they should be able to convince the two major locomotives to change their attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132708	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132709	I think everyone can see that negotiations are going to be very difficult, about the future EU budget. It was before the Franco-German report; it is after the Franco-German report. But it does not change what we in Denmark think is sensible, namely that we have an EU budget that is no bigger than necessary, that we spend the money we drop off more wisely, among other things. on the green, on modern technologies and on protecting our external borders, and that will not be changed by the fact that there will be action from other countries. We still think this is sensible and we will fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132747	Thank you to the authors. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on. Now it is a question to the Minister for Justice of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and co-questioner is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132757	Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132801	Thank you. Does the Minister think that the government has informed the Folketing well enough of what strategy and what prerequisites are behind the government's plans for reopening the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603132814	Thank you for the question, which I can reply to very briefly: yes, I think so. In fact, I think that the government has done a great deal to keep the Folketing closely informed and involved throughout the management of the corona crisis. Of course, it should be in a situation like this, and I certainly think it has been the same. For my part, since 23 March, I have held weekly meetings with the legal rapporteurs precisely to keep Parliament's parties closely informed in this very extraordinary situation. It has been done in this way that all the legal rapporteurs have attended the meetings, of course not physically, but virtually, and then we have had all the various directors inside, so that we have looked into the area by area, what is happening and what we are doing about dealing with the Corona crisis in the courts, the police, the area of criminal justice and the area of the prosecution. In this context, inter alia: The National Police provided information, which also covered the border issue, and the rapporteurs have been able to ask questions about the border issue, as they have done, at these meetings. In addition, I have also answered every Wednesday in this Chamber a considerable amount of Article 20 questions on borders. Then I also know that the Prime Minister has kept the party leaders closely informed of the government's decisions. I know that the questioner would very much like us to say that we should only meet the firm conditions or conditions, and then the limits could be opened, so that one could make such a script where one says that if it and it are met, we can do this and that, but it is not that simple. There is no exact formula for reopening borders after a global pandemic, and fortunately there are no precedents in recent times. The question of the reopening of our borders cannot be seen in isolation from the question of the overall reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133022	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133023	Thank you. I must confess that it is not surprising to me that the Minister is satisfied with his own efforts. It would have surprised me a great deal if the Minister had stood here and said with a sad voice: No, we should certainly have done differently; we should have listened to the majority of the Folketing who wanted something else. That is precisely why we are standing here on the fifth Wednesday in a row, and yes, I have, together with my colleagues, put a number of questions to the Minister, to which I do not think we have received very good answers, unfortunately. I would just remind you that in all the time we have been standing here, the tourism industry has lost turnover equivalent to 200 million. kr. a day. I actually think we owe it to that industry to take seriously the things we work with here. That is why I just have to ask the Minister today to explain so that we can understand what the Minister and the government expect to change from now until 15 June. Why didn't they open the door immediately? Why has it been held back, although it has been changed from 1 June to 29 May? The Minister had even been so bold in the Committee on European Affairs to promise me a very good solution. I have to say that I do not think the Minister fully delivered that either. Of course, there is an opening, but a good solution is not entirely. So I think that the Minister has yet to tell me and the Folketing and the public what is expected to change from now until 15 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133209-2	I do not think, in fact, and I hope that there is not much that will change until 15 June, in the sense that we currently have a good track record of the Corona situation. That is also why we have been able to take these steps with the reopening of our society. However, as the questioner also well knows from her many past merited efforts in the service of the people's government, it takes some time to implement such decisions. There are a number of things we need to deal with, for example. a question which I know is of concern to the questioner, namely the border area and how we deal precisely with it and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133246	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133247	I must confess that listening to the Minister's reply here does not make me much wiser. I am also puzzled when I see in the media that the political rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Jesper Petersen, is talking about normalization in the border country and is now working on a normalisation of conditions in the border country which could mean that Germans can increase, for example. The pedestrian street in Tønder is specifically mentioned as an example. I just have to ask the Minister: will this happen after 15 June?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133326-2	That is exactly what we are working on now, i.e. to find out how we can open up in the border country so that it is done in a sensible way. We do not have a finished model, but a scheme could, for example. It is true that there is no requirement for a worthy purpose if you reside in the border country, that is to say that you can move freely between Denmark and Germany only because you reside in the border country, and that there should be no requirement for six nights and the like in the same way. That's how the relationship could be, yes, normalized.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133401	Then it's the co-questioner. Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen for 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133404	I would like to ask the Minister whether the Danish Government has discussed with the German Government the announcements that the German Foreign Minister has now made, that is to say, that Germany is opening the borders for entry from the other EU countries. So it has been discussed between the two governments, and what has the Danish Government's response to the German Government been?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133428	In fact, I think it was at the same European Committee meeting last Friday that I had the opportunity to tell the committee that that very morning I had had the opportunity to talk to my German colleague about this opening, and he signed it up and accepted it. On that occasion he also told us what were the German positions, including that Germany, like us, is looking at this in such a way that, if a relapse occurs, it reserves the right to close again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133503	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133504	Now we have a number of times asked about the conditions for opening up to, for example. entry from Germany. Should I understand the Minister's reply that the Minister will now hold on to the minimum of five or six nights during the summer and that there will continue to be a service for worthy purposes, but not for those living in Schleswig-Holstein so that the Danish Government does not intend to follow the German line?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133532	The approach will still be that there must be a worthy purpose, and one might say that the mere fact that you live in the border area is a worthy of recognition. It's a dispute about words. So it doesn't matter. Of course, what matters is the result. But the point is that from the very beginning, when we shut down, we have said that there are some worthy purposes that allow us to enter. That is where we have added new worthy objectives along the way and, finally, with the great decision opened up to tourism as a worthy purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133605	Then it's Ulla Tørnæs for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133607	In fact, I hope that the Minister himself can hear that this is becoming more and more grotesque. At least it is becoming more and more complicated and it is becoming more and more difficult to navigate. I just have one more question. Today we hear that the Germans are opening up to all EU countries, including Great Britain and other EEA countries. How will the government handle it, that Denmark will then, no matter how we turn it and turn it, become a country of transit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133644	The Germans' choice of opening is their choice. They are in a different situation; they have a different geography; they have a different size; they have different relationships than we have. Therefore, they must choose what they think is the right way to do it. The Swedes have chosen their model. The Norwegians have chosen their model, a model that is not several kilometres from ours. And in Denmark we have chosen the model which we thought was relevant and which, in addition to the many times we have talked about this issue in the Chamber, has been about securing the tourist industry in the Jutland area, which we are now opening up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133718	Thank you. The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133725	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133728	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that according to a recent investigation by the National Police, rape victims are the most dissatisfied with police work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133745	The figures that we see in the police's recently published satisfaction survey are not satisfactory. Forty-seven percent. of those who have been raped are dissatisfied with the police's handling of the case, and we obviously cannot live with that. The study makes it very clear that the police must focus both on solving the case and on how to meet the victims. This applies to all victims of crime. A number of steps have been taken in recent years both to improve the meeting of citizens with the police and, in concrete terms, to deal with cases of rape by the police. Thus, in dealing with rape cases, the police must have increased focus on ensuring that rape reports are always taken seriously and dealt with thoroughly and that the victim feels safe and feels taken seriously. A number of minimum treatment steps have also been introduced which the police must take in connection with any notification of rape, so that satisfactory treatment is assured. And on police training, there is a greater focus today on interrogation methods that take more account of the situation in which the victim finds himself. It has to be said that it is not enough when a large proportion is dissatisfied with the police's handling. It is also vital for me, therefore, that we now try to highlight the fact that victims meet with openness, respect and professionalism. That is why we are currently looking at how we can implement the good recommendations made by the expert working group that has been in the Ministry of Justice and how they can become reality. Some of this is something we have come a long way with, some of it needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133941	Mrs. Fatma Øktem, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603133942	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Minister for Justice is also very serious about the fact that rape victims are very dissatisfied with the work of the police. As the Minister also mentioned, it is as much as 47 per cent, and that is really a high figure. In particular, dissatisfaction is linked to the fact that the notification is not taken sufficiently seriously, says the report. In 2016, the government under the leadership of the Left launched an initiative entitled "Respect for Rape Victims'. It set out among other things. In addition, a number of initiatives are under way in the police circles to improve the experience of the victims of rape in meeting with the system. In the report I can read that the actions that have been initiated are also entirely based on the book and are the right measures, but just cannot succeed. So my question to the Minister is: what initiatives does the Minister intend to launch in addition to those that have been mentioned and which have been set in motion, but which have obviously not been implemented since 2016? Will the Minister set in motion some other measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134055	Well, I will. As I said, there has been a panel of experts which has made some recommendations. Some of that is that we need to do, for example. a collection of material on trauma events, so that the police can predict how people's reactions to trauma are. In other words, it may well be that someone who has been raped reacts in reality with normal behaviour and does not react much externally, but that it should not be taken as income to the effect that it is not as serious as it is. And there are also a number of other recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134132	Mrs. Fatma Øktem, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134134	Some of the recommendations in the report simply state that action must be taken to increase the empathy and understanding of the police. It is a little strange to think that there should not be the empathy and understanding of victims in such a situation. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has any figures on how many of the notifications are withdrawn and whether we know why they are withdrawn. Because I can be concerned if the first meeting with the system is so unpleasant that the victims also withdraw their cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134213	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134214	I think there are many explanations for the fact that in the field of rape there is a dark figure. Unfortunately, I believe that one of the explanations is the one that the questioner also indicates, namely that the person who has been the victim of the crime is unsure whether it will lead to something to file a complaint. That is also why I think it is important that we take steps towards a consent-based rape clause, so that the demands that we have today, that there should be violence or coercion or anything else, should not apply, and that we move on to a situation where it is stressed that we are masters of our own body and that we should therefore move towards a consent-based rape clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134253	Fatma Øktem for last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134254	Of course, all violence is unpleasant, but I think that in the rape cases it must be extremely unpleasant to have to sit and report and relive the things you have been exposed to not because I say that everything else is not too. But this must be particularly unpleasant. I am so sensitive to the fact that it is said that the police must be trained in more empathy and understanding. And there I would like to hear from the Minister whether, in addition to all the actions that have been mentioned, there is something special about how to train empathy and understanding for people in this situation. Is that something we can expect from the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134334	Well, there is. In other words, we have been talking about minimum steps in the police service. This is an initiative that has been fully implemented. We expect this material collection of trauma events to be completed this summer. Then we are talking about video interviews of victims; that is one of the things that will be included in the multi-year agreement for the police we are about to negotiate. Then there is what we call traumatic practice, which we must also continue to work on, which is the review of...
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134409	Thank you! The question is over. We will continue with questions to the Minister of Justice. Now it is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen who is asking, and the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134411	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134420	Thank you. Will German tourists be allowed to come to Denmark during the summer holidays this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134426	That is an answer that I have been looking forward to giving to the questioner, because it is a question that I have been given and I can see that the questioner also has a happy expectation of the answer, because as you know, the answer is: yes, German tourists are allowed to enter Denmark during the summer holidays The Government presented a plan on Friday for a controlled and gradual reopening of summer tourism. The plan allows tourists from Germany, Norway and Iceland to enter Denmark from 15 June. Tourists must document that they have booked a stay outside Copenhagen and must have booked at least six nights in a holiday home, on a campsite, in a hotel or the like. I am glad that we have reached a place where we can open up to tourists, because that is the result of our having a good track record in Denmark. It is also just important to stick to the fact that we have to follow developments in the spread of infection at home and in our neighbouring countries closely, because opening the borders may lead to infected people entering the country and thus to start new chains of infection. That is why, of course, we are also keeping a close eye on developments at home and in our neighbouring countries, because it is clear that, when we open up now, it is provided that we do not suddenly lose control of the situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134555	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134556	Why does the Minister think it is worrying that a German family, for example, should have a family? Only 3 days live on a campsite in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134606	Well, I don't think that's worrying either. If they live 3 days on a campsite in Denmark and then move on to another campsite and live 3 days e.g., then there are six nights in Denmark, and then I can see nothing worrying about it. Having said that there must be six nights' sleep, it is in order to ensure a certain consistency in who we are getting into the country, and thus to better ensure that we are able to prevent the spread of infection and to be able to monitor the spread of infection that might occur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134638	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134638-2	Is there recognition, then, that the spread of infection has actually been very low and under strong control in Schleswig-Holstein, when after so many weeks of discussion about what is worthy of recognition, the Minister is actually saying that the mere fact that you live in Schleswig-Holstein is a worthy of recognition? Or what new information has been given to the Minister since the Minister has changed his mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134704	It is a multitude of circumstances that are involved. But it is clear that it does of course matter how the situation is handled in Schleswig-Holstein. Had the situation been significantly different from that in Denmark, the position would probably have been different, just as it obviously means something with the reaction that we have met from the border area, where it has been said with a firm voice that the close and good interaction as there is, we need, for many different reasons, to get back on track again not only economically but also culturally etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134740	Then the co-questioner, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, has one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134742	Thank you. I still find it difficult to understand that there is a greater risk of infection if you stay two or three nights in Denmark than if you stay six nights, but let it be. I shall go back to something that I touched upon in the previous question, namely the opening up of Germany. This means that German tourists will have the opportunity to go to Norway, and Denmark will most likely be a transit country. What will the conditions be for German tourists who have to go through Denmark to get to their holiday destination? Should they book a holiday home and stay for 6 days in Denmark, or are they given the opportunity to transport themselves through Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134833	I had not just seen that question coming, but the way I remember it is one of the worthy purposes of recognition, and that's why I'm standing here and recounting in the list of recognized purposes that you're transiting through Denmark, that is to say that you're moving through the country and so you can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134901	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134902	That is quite all right, but I am asking the question, mostly because I hope the Minister can see that this is becoming more and more grotesque. What happens to the German tourist if he needs accommodation in Denmark? It will then probably be a single overnight stay. I am sorry to get into this situation, but I have to confess that I think there is such a little snart of Comic Ali about the answers that we get from the Minister and that we have received from the Minister over the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134944	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603134945	Of course, I do not agree with that. We also make use of the transit option when Danes, for example. drives in transit through southern Sweden to go to Bornholm. I think we should recognise the desire to ensure that we have a fairly good track record of the number coming to Denmark and that we have a fairly good track record of the fact that it is not a very fluctuating flow of tourists who come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135016	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135019	Does the Minister not find it a little embarrassing to make these demands on German tourists who will come to Denmark to spend the night for at least six nights when Germany says that Danish tourists are welcome in Germany, when Germany opens up and says: Now we have to get employment and the economy going again, and that is why we are now opening up to neighbouring countries? Does the Minister not find it embarrassing to have to inform his German colleagues that we are maintaining some restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135054	No, and that's not how it was perceived. Then my German colleague hid it well when I talked to him about it and told him about the conditions. On the contrary, he was very pleased that Denmark opens the borders, just as I have received a considerable receipt that this allows the tourism industry at home to get back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135118	The question is over. We are therefore grateful to the authors and to the Minister of Justice. Now we move on to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior with questions from Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135130	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135132	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable to allow the provision of disability benefits to depend on age, as is the case with disability-related additional benefits such as support for driving in a box car and for special medicines and help to change a light bulb to which you lose the right at the age of 65?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135154	Thank you to the questioner for bringing up the important issue. Precisely the question of transitions, both between childhood and adulthood and adult and senior life, or older life, if you like, is one of the central points of government disability policy. We have already taken several important steps to lift that particular agenda. Last Friday we sent a legislative proposal in consultation which obliges municipalities to start preparing for the transition to adult life for young people with disabilities at the age of 16, just as we are currently discussing a legislative proposal to ensure that young people with extensive disability are offered monitoring and support at night in their own homes so that they do not have to leave home at the age of 18, on the date, but can have a more individually adapted transition to adult life. But let me just say quite clearly: people with disabilities need the help and support they need. No one should be left without the opportunity to receive help when they pass to the retirement age. Therefore, there are also a large number of provisions of the Services Act which are independent of age. With that in mind, it is true that there are also some types of expenditure that people with disabilities can receive support for before it is an arrangement of our legislation, which is based on a political priority, and it will be linked to public extra costs to change it. In addition to this, the end of the retirement age must also be seen in the light of the fact that one of the objectives, at least historically, of the additional cost, is to ensure that citizens with disabilities, who make a special effort to maintain their links with the labour market, are also supported in being able to remain in the labour market. It must also be borne in mind that even if the additional costs are abolished, the individual citizen is not deprived of his or her full assistance. Other assistance under the Service Act, e.g. personal and practical help in the home, aids, car support, etc., will continue to run, and the municipality will also have to assess whether some of the expenses previously paid to the citizen under the additional cost rules can be covered under the Social Pension Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135402	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135403	First of all, thank you to the Minister. I am pleased that we are now in the process of making good and sensible transitional arrangements, hopefully for young people who are getting older or for children who are growing up. In this context, the challenge is the situation faced by people under the age of 65 who have been helped, for example, as I mentioned here, to drive a boxcar or change a light bulb. It is even about medicine. I find it strange that we should stop having this award of benefits as a disabled person, and I also understand that this is one of the things that the government is going to focus on. I hope so. But I am very surprised that, just because you're 65 years old or you're a retired person, you're actually gonna have to stop doing this. I actually don't understand. After all, one's disability or the cost of it does not disappear just because one's birthday is at hand, and it does not help citizens much that they might be able to come under the rules of pension legislation on personal allowances. There are quite clear savings in this. For that very reason, I know that it is a matter for Danske Handicaporganisations, not because of the savings, but because it is so clear that there are actually worsenings. You don't get the help you got until you're 65 years old. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister how it can be that we have such a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135533	Thanks for signing for the busyness. This is one of the areas that is really important for this government to look at, that is, better transitions in life. This is one of the key points in the government's disability policy. That is why we will also get to work on it. It is good to be able to see now that we will be able to have some good discussions on this with the Radical Left. I would like to say that in reality it probably calls for a more historical review of why the rules we have today have been given, because, on the whole, it is a question of political priorities. But what is the background to the fact that the cut lies where it does, I cannot stand here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135613	Nils Sjøberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135614	Thank you. One of the organisations that naturally focuses on this is, of course, Danish Handicap organisations, which come up with some very good proposals, which I would recommend that you involve in the further work. Will the Minister look at how to change the system so that it is possible to see through for ordinary citizens here I am also thinking of myself so that citizens can continue to recover their extra costs due to disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135643	As I said, I believe that the whole question of transition, both from child to adult life and from adult life to senior or retired life, is one of the things we need to look at in our disability policy. I can reveal that I have already looked at the good recommendations of DH, Danish Handicap Organisations. This is among other things. from their catalogue and recommendations that the bill I described, which we have sent in consultation now, to ensure better transitions for young people into adulthood, comes from. So we will continue to be concerned about that, and I would just like to acknowledge that this is also something that the Radical Left is concerned about, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135718	Nils Sjøberg for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135719	Thank you. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister will do for the many pensioners who are not covered today by the current legislation and, as such, will not do for the new legislation. What will you do for those in the middle group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135734	As the rapporteur will probably also know, because I have replied to the Social Affairs Committee back in December last year, there will be additional costs if the age limit is removed from the specific question of additional expenditure at a level of 75 million. kr. lasting. It is true here, as everywhere else, that it will be a discussion about whether it is the most important place to put into an overall political priority of how we can ensure better transitions for people with disabilities and disability. I would very much like to take that discussion, including with the Radical Left, that is at least one of the things we consider essential in our disability policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135813	Thank you to the questioner. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Now it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who is a questioner, and co-questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135822	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135824	Thank you, President. What, in general, does the Minister consider to be the reasonable limit for a member of the Council to reside abroad and from there simply to carry out his obligations via video-link rather than asking for leave from the city council and to call for a deputy, and what is the Minister's position regarding the city council member of Albertslund Hediye Temiz (R) having been in Turkey since March and taking up his duties in the city council from there via video-link?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603135854	Thank you for the question. In order to be a member of a municipal council, you have to live in the municipality and that makes sense, because the office requires local affiliation and local presence. It consists not only of political meetings but also of other activities, such as: visits to institutions, meetings with citizens and interest groups. In general, therefore, it is my view that a municipal councillor cannot be away from the municipality for long periods of time and at the same time carry out a job in an adequate manner. The assessment of whether it is reasonable for a member to perform his duties from a place outside the municipality may in some cases be different in the Corona crisis than in a normal situation. This is partly because the political meetings are held in some places via video and partly because the risk of infection has shut down a great many of the municipal authorities' outgoing activities. As a result, there have been fewer activities for local politicians in many places than usual. I know only the specific case, as described in Danske Kommuner on 26 May this year. This shows that the rules in force have been complied with. I also note that last week, at the request of the Councillor of the Danish People's Party, the municipal council took up the matter and decided that members of Albertslund's municipal council could attend virtual meetings until the public sector in Zealand reopens. So you have locally found a solution that you think works. Then I just want to say in person that as an elected official I would not want to sit in a country far away, while Denmark was hit by a serious crisis like the Corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140027	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140028	I think the Minister and I feel the same way there. Being elected to a bourgeois ombud, being elected, whether it be for the Folketing or for a city council, is not just a question of seeing such a technical or otherwise part of the decisions, but also of showing interest in the work that has once been asked to be done by the electorate. That is why I welcome the last remark made by the Minister, not least because when such a case is allowed to pass, it would well be possible to imagine that there are other people sitting around in other municipal councils who think that it would be awfully nice to take care of the work from some pool around the Mediterranean, or where it might be, where it might be a little more convenient in terms of weather conditions or whatever it may be. What is particularly remarkable about this case is that the radical politician in question openly states on Facebook that it is not because she cannot come home that she stays in Turkey. It is simply because she would just rather be with her grandparents than she would be home in Denmark. And that's where things start to get a little bit, I think, weird. Firstly, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has quite clearly called on people to come home to Denmark, but secondly, because there may be a security issue, I think when you are on a video link. In other words, the meetings that we in the Danish Parliament, but also in the city councils, have in the committees are closed, and it has to be said that you cannot really know who is sitting on the other side of a computer screen, that is, what people are actually listening to when these meetings are held. So I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to say very clearly that if you can come home as a Councillor, then of course you have to come home. Or you have to make sure there's an alternate coming in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140225	Well, as I said, I do not know about all the leaders and edges of the particular case, but I note that according to the article, which I also believe the authors are based on their questions here, the local administration has stated that this is within the applicable rules. And I can rely on that as far as that is concerned. Then there is this debate on security in committee meetings via video link. In fact, even in a normal situation where there is no special clause for meetings following the corona, it is possible for the committees to hold their meetings as video meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140302	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140304	But I guess that's hardly what's advisable. As the Minister himself said in his first reply, it is after all a matter of carrying out a task of being present, showing interest and so on. And not just stay away because it's just more convenient. Well, it may be within the rules. I now think that the way I read §15 para. 1, in the Administrative Regulations, a little indicates something else. But that's why I just need the Minister of the Interior to deal with everyone else who might have the same ambition to come to a perhaps more comfortable country and sit on video links that say that's not what the government wants it to be the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140341	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140343	I think I can make it clear that I think it is very good that we have the rules we have normally. I see no reason why the special opportunities that have been under the corona should become everyday. However, when the questioner himself asks about the safety of holding committee meetings over video, I would just like to clarify that that possibility already exists today according to the normal rules, i.e. also when we are not in a particular situation. I do not have an overview of how many committees in how many municipalities choose to use it, but I assume that safety, when it is part of the applicable rules, is existing in terms of being able to dismantle it in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140421	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140422	Thank you. I think it is interesting to take this discussion, also in view of the fact that the government is just on the way with some rules in relation to absenteeism. As far as I am concerned, this asks the question: what is absenteeism? Isn't it absence if you're in a country somewhere in the world and well enough on a video link, but aren't just near being around? I mean, when's the absence? The new rules on the way are talking about one month's absence. Here you have been absent for two months. Isn't that absence? When is the absence? I'm in a municipal council myself, and that's a little interesting to know. I fully agree that, to a certain extent, there may be a telephone meeting or a video meeting if there are things that need to be dealt with, perhaps somewhat independently of the normal committee meetings, but there is a distance from there and then to participate systematically over a long period of time on video links. Shouldn't that come into the new rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140528	With regard to the rules in force, I can say that the announcement that allows municipal councils and urban roots to meet on the video link ends at the end of this month. After all, it is an emergency order that has been issued because of the special circumstances given by the corona. We have not ordered municipal councils and city councils to run the meetings in this way, but we have been given the opportunity to make local assessments. This is also the case here and, at the request of the Danish People's Party, last week, as I understand it, we have had a fresh discussion on how to organise our work locally. I am glad that we have the rules we have normally and that we are going back to the general framework very soon. But I must also say that the Danish People's Party's own councillor who has made this proposal, even in the article we are circling around here, also admits that it is difficult to define one hundred percent where the limit goes. Is it a problem if you're in Ringkøbing or Skagen? What if your municipality is bordering Malmö or Flensburg? Is that something else? And in this way I think it is very good that we have clear rules for everyday life, that is to say that this particular period is about to end now and that, moreover, we are having good solid local discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140640	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140642	But that is why it seems obvious to me that when we are now discussing absenteeism and discussing the rules of absence, we should say that this discussion must also take place. Because, as the Minister himself says, there are committee meetings today that run with Skype participation or with telephone participation. And you could imagine that, given what we have been exposed to in recent months, if we do not agree to set a framework for what level is acceptable in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140712-2	Well, to that end, there are limits to the extent to which it can take place, because in normal circumstances municipal meetings cannot be held as video meetings, and that is primarily for the very reason that the public must have access to meetings. That is why it is not part of the current rules that we can do so, and I have no intention of doing so. As I also said, I personally would feel weird about being elected and then being very far away from the country or area in which I was elected, in such a health crisis as the one we have been in right now. And I also think it's healthy that you've had some of those discussions locally. Moreover, I very much agree with the questioner and the questioner's colleague that it is an extremely important profession that you have when you are a local politician and that you have to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140758	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140800	I have to say that I find it strange that the Minister is taking this so lightly. Well, we have a foreign minister who says you have to come home to Denmark. We have a statute for the administration which clearly states and underlines what the Minister himself is doing, by the way, about living in the municipality in question. And it is not long ago that the Social Democratic Party had had an announcement with the Socialist People's Party and, incidentally, also the Radicals, V and K. to make the period of absence without calling a deputy shorter. I would like to point out that Steen Christiansen, mayor of Albertslund, belongs to the same party as the Minister of the Interior. So I find it strange that the Minister for the Interior cannot say: this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140839	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140841	There have of course been some special rules in place here during the corona crisis, for the sake that local democracy there too has been absolutely crucial. It has been important that it has been possible to work and that it has been possible to make a decision and, of course, it has been possible to take responsibility for a very difficult situation for the whole of our country, but also, to a large extent, for the many different functions of a municipality for some of the vulnerable citizens, for the children and for the elderly. That is why there has been an announcement that has made it possible to run meetings, to take decisions and to be responsible local politicians at a different level. I'm glad we don't have those rules for everyday life. As the questioner, I also very much appreciate local democracy, and that also requires active participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140923	Thank you to the authors. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on. Now it is a question for the Minister for Health and the elderly from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140932	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140934	Thank you for that, President. The question is: why does the government believe that patients should not have their patients' rights back before 1 January 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603140946	Thank you for that, President. The health service has been in an extraordinary situation in recent months because of the corona epidemic. In this situation, it has been necessary to allow the regions, on the basis of an overall assessment of their capacity, to disregard the time limits laid down in the rules on the right to rapid investigation and extended freedom of hospital choice. As you know, this has been done in order to enable the regions to prioritise patients with acute and life-threatening diseases, for example: patients with covid-19. Fortunately, we are currently seeing a positive development with the epidemic in Denmark. This allows us to increase health care activity so that more patients can be rescued and treated. The government has a strong focus on catching up with delayed investigations and treatments in health care as a result of coronavirus. This is an important element in the agreement recently reached on the regional economy for 2021. Here it is, among other things. agreed that the regions will be provided with funding for the closure of the waiting-time buffer. In addition, the government and Danske Regions have agreed on a national plan for the restoration of patient rights for rapid investigation and treatment. This plan means that the right of investigation and treatment will be reinstated per year. 1 September 2020 in the field of psychiatry and pr. 1 January 2021 in the somatic field. In addition, the obligation of the regions to provide information for patients is reinstated per year. July 1st this year. This means that, within 8 working days of receiving a patient referral or a patient released, hospitals must inform the patient of treatment options. It should provide an overview and greater security for patients. I think that is a good and ambitious plan. It gives patients a sense of security and certainty as to when the rights will come into effect again, and at the same time it allows our regions to plan and prioritise sensibly at a time when there is still an infection in society and where hospitals still need to be able to quickly adjust the activity if the epidemic flares up again. With the plan, the government thus takes responsibility for ensuring that health care and staff can keep up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141151	Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141151-2	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. For my party, the Left, it is with patient rights of heart blood, and I will actually go so far as to say that it is part of our DNA. In my opinion, patients' rights have two objectives. Partly a purpose by virtue of itself as strong rights for patients, so that patients know what they have to comply with, and also as a management instrument in the Danish healthcare system understood in that way, that one cannot provide or treat a patient on time, that is within one month, one must therefore find an alternative from the system to the patient concerned. As the Minister says, patients' rights have now been suspended because of the corona crisis, and for us it is very important that they be reinstated as soon as possible. As the Minister knows, the Left has on several occasions put forward the view that there should be some professional criteria as to when we can reinstate patients' rights. We have among other things. pointed out that health care capacity could guide the re-establishment. That argument has so far been rejected by the government and the minister, with the argument that one has not had an overview of how to monitor the waiting-time hump and the activity in the health service or said in Danish, the government has said, and the government says that one does not know what status is in the health service now, so one does not want to reinstate patients' rights. My question to the Minister here as a follow-up to the main question is: when has the government got an overview of the situation in the health care system so that we can possibly speed up the restoration of patients' rights? Because compared to that with 1 January: Well, you can choose to call it an agreement, but we should have implemented them anyway on 1 January, when it is so there, the notice then expires the agreement and agreement. That is what the law says, that is what it says, and there is not much agreement on that. So when does the government get an overview of the situation in the health care system so that patients' rights can be reinstated before 1 January?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141359-2	Yeah, it's a deal. It has been concluded between the Government and the Danish Regions. It very, very clearly describes the various steps to be taken towards full restoration, including: that we can introduce patients' rights in the psychiatric area earlier than in the somatic area, we would have hoped that they would sign for it by the Left, but that will not be achieved much earlier, as well as the obligation to provide information. After a long cooperation with our regions, this agreement has been reached precisely in order to provide an overview of the epidemic and the pressure on our treatment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141436	Sir. Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141437	I would like to sign for it in the psychiatric field, but would the Minister not confirm that, in the somatic field, the announcement says that patients' rights should still be reinstated on 1 January? So what exactly is new in what that agreement says? That is my first question. I have another question: the Minister of Health says to me in a reply dated 23.4. that by the end of May an overview of waiting hours and activity in the Danish health care system will have been obtained. When will this overview come from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141507	We are constantly working to obtain data in order to go into more detail, and one must look forward to it being data that also describes the differences in the way in which health services have managed to deal with the crisis. Some regions and some hospitals have been much more strained than others, and some specialities can also be speeded up more quickly than others. As we get that data, we will of course also inform the Folketing about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141536	Martin Geertsen to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141537	But excuse me, Minister for Health: Well, the Minister for Health has used the argument that you have not had an overview of the situation in the Danish health service. This has been promised by the end of May. The Minister for Health has not yet provided this overview. And again, excuse me: can one wonder if anyone should have the idea that the Minister for Health is sitting on that information with a view to postponing the reinstatement of patients' rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141610	Yes, I can reject that completely, and just to calm down the huts here in the Assembly Hall: If you compare with the last time we had an extraordinary situation • it was on the guard of the VK government after the nurse's conflict back in 2008 and 2009 • you actually made a plan for reinstatement. There was no epidemic to deal with while we still have it at this time. But compared to the two time intervals, there's a pretty close similarity, and there's nothing in this situation that should make it less ambitious. On the contrary, on the parameters that I believe to be relevant, what we are delivering today is more ambitious than what was delivered back then in 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141652	Thank you. The question is over. We will continue with the Minister for Health and the Elderly, but also with Mr. Martin Geertsen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141700	Please read the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141701	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that this is an expression of openness when, prior to the Prime Minister's press conference on 23 March 2020, the government blocked the publication of positive coronatal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141710	Transparency and involvement have been important points of reference for the government's efforts during the Corona crisis. We have also seen that there should be joint and coordinated communication on the part of the authorities. At the same time, we have been in a new and unknown situation where there has not been a pre-established model of how best to ensure this openness and this involvement. This does not alter the fact that the basis of assessment from the Statens Serum Institute has been laid out openly. Source codes are published. The strategy and progress reports of the Danish Health Authority are available to all. I understand that the questioner now refers to a correspondence mentioned in the Ekstra Bladet between the Statens Serum Institut and the Danish Health Service on when to publish new figures for the infection pressure in Denmark. I would remind you that the pressure of infection cannot be observed... it has to be calculated. Such calculations will be associated with uncertainty and can of course also be revised in Denmark as well as abroad. We have also seen this in the current situation. I note that both the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute in the correspondence mentioned in the same article state that, regardless of the positive development of the pressure of infection, the strategy of keeping distance must still be maintained. I am quite open that, when we are on the other side of this crisis, we will have an analysis and an evaluation of the progress made. Then we can learn from it for another time too in terms of ensuring openness and involvement along the way. It would be good for everyone to be better prepared for a similar situation that could arise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141852	Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603141853	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This story in the Ekstra Bladet of 28 May and then my question, as the minister rightly says refers to history, is of course about the fact that, across health authorities on 20 March, there is a desire to publish some positive tactics in relation to the pressure of infection in Denmark, which was apparently lower than expected. Supposedly, the technical director of the Statens Serum Institut, Kåre Mølbak, and the director of the Danish Health Service, Søren Brostrøm, agreed that the positive coronatal should be published immediately, i.e. on 20 March. However, according to the access granted to the Ekstrabladet, this did not appear to be the case. According to Ekstrabladet's access to documents and their reproduction, it was again blocked politically. In other words, it was necessary to wait three days for the figures and the report to become public knowledge, namely only when the Prime Minister extended the closure of Denmark on 23 March. One thing is that it could in itself be interesting to drill in who it was that slowed down the publication etc. etc., but that is not really what concerns me so much here. What concerns me, and what I think is far more important, is whether the government believes that there are figures and information that people cannot bear to hear when they are ready for publication.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142014	I can deny that there isn't. We have a desire, of course, for joint coordinated communication by the authorities. This report was published as I was informed on 23 March, but I must point out that it is a calculated figure. That is to say, you could see the current figures every day. So it was the calculated figures that were published on 23 March, which means that there was full openness and openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142051	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142052	I have to say quite frankly that I have had some difficulty in understanding for a long time why there is information that the government needs to keep, if I may say so, hidden from the public. One might well say that the government has entered into some kind of contract with the population. On the one hand, the government has made some quite violent and drastic interventions in the area of personal freedom • many people have lost their jobs, and yet others are likely to lose it and, on the other hand, it is reasonable that the government should, as it were, keep its share of the contract by not putting in with information and holding back information. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142127	We had a task, and the task has not been substantially changed, namely to get Denmark safely and safely through the epidemic, where we had infected numbers and infection chains in Denmark, and it was estimated that there was a high risk of obtaining infection chains, as was seen in northern Italy. That was the situation in these weeks of March that we are now talking about. And the absolutely crucial assessment was that we came out safely and safely. All these things are public. Here it is a question whether anything was published on a Friday instead of a Monday it doesn't make a flap difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142209	Martin Geertsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142210	Yeah, but that's just not the only example we've seen. There have been numerous examples of people, if I may say so, pushing information and holding things back and perhaps cutting a corner in their information. So, does the Minister not agree that there is some kind of social contract with the Danes? Some rather drastic measures have been taken in relation to the freedom of the Danes, and that is one side of the contract. Doesn't the government, on the other hand, in this contract also have an obligation to be absolutely sharp on its communication and be open to the Danes about what is going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142245	The government has been open. All these numbers have been added. I know that we are one of the most open countries in the world, so even source codes behind the mathematical models of the researchers are there for free use on the Internet. Here we have a situation where we are now going back 21⁄2 months about something that was published between some governments on Monday instead of a Friday. It really doesn't make any difference to me. It is fully accessible, and it has been there since that Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142322	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. The question is over. We move on and it's still gone, the Minister for Health and the elderly, but now it's Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142328	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142329	What is the Minister's position on the faster restoration of general investigation and treatment rights in view of the current situation of covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142349	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142350	Well, thank you for that question. As I have already explained in my reply to Question No. S 1292, the government and Danske Regions have agreed on a national plan for the restoration of patient rights for rapid investigation and treatment. This plan means that the regions' obligation to provide information to patients will be implemented per year. July 1st this year. The obligation to provide information means that, within 8 working days of receiving a patient's referral or following a patient's delivery, hospitals must inform the patient of treatment options. This should help to create greater security and provide an overview and clarity for patients. Next, the right of investigation and treatment in the field of psychiatry is reinstated per year. 1 September 2020. Finally, the national plan means that the right of investigation and treatment will be reinstated in the somatic field per year. 1 January 2021. It is a good and ambitious plan; it gives our patients a sense of security and certainty as to when the rights will come into force again, and at the same time it allows the regions to plan and prioritise sensibly at a time when there is still infection that needs to be dealt with in society and in health care. And we must also say quite frankly that it is also part of the plan that hospitals will still be able to switch activities if the epidemic flares up again in Denmark. In addition, the government has a strong focus on catching up on delayed investigations and treatments due to coronavirus, and this can be seen from the agreement for the region's economy made last Friday, where it among other things. It is precisely the fact that our regions are being secured funding for the dismantling of the waiting-time hump created by the corona virus. And that means it's funded, it's agreed, it's planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142539	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142540	Thank you. I had to ask this question before that agreement was made, so I think it is right for me to say that it is not everything that has been resolved with that agreement. I must also say that patients' rights are a matter for the Left. For us, it is absolutely crucial that the Danes have both the right to the rapid investigation of their illness and the right to early treatment. During our governments up through the 00s, these patient rights have been strengthened quite significantly, and this means that the Danes today have the right to a very rapid investigation within 30 days and an initiated treatment within a further 30 days. And that actually gives us some of the strongest patient rights in the world, which I am proud of, and that is also why I am asking these questions to the Minister. The Corona epidemic has meant that ordinary patients' rights have been suspended after 18 March, and out of respect for the covid-19, it was decided to postpone all non-acute activity. We fully understand that. The capacity of the health service was not to be exceeded, many operations and treatments have been postponed and this has resulted in a very, very large hump of waiting lists. One estimate says that 25,000-30,000 operations are cancelled due to covid-19, and this covers so many patients who are entitled to treatment and surgery so that they can move on with their lives; Danes in pain looking forward to a new hip or a new knee. So now a new agreement has been reached on the re-establishment of patients' rights, and I think it has to be said that the agreement follows the same precautionary principle that permeates the government's re-opening strategy. The Medical Association considers that it is realistic to consider setting the right of investigation in motion again soon. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142746	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142747	Well, it is true that I can confirm that we have some strong patients' rights here in Denmark I uphold them. And when we put them out of effect, yes, then there was understanding, also from the opposition, and I sign for that; it was necessary. But that's why it's also about making a durable plan to bring them back into a normal state where they're activated again. And it is made together with the chairman of Danske Regioner and generally with Danske Regioner and the plan is a robust plan in relation to what can be done. However, there is a hump that needs to be dealt with and that needs to be financed, also in relation to the staff who must also be able to keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142831	The rights are a promise, and I think we can all agree on that. And for the Left, there is no doubt that the rights of investigation and patients are also there to provide safety so that patients can feel safe in health care. It is a great step forward that the Danes have the certainty of rapid investigation and subsequent treatment in the event of illness. After patients' rights were suspended in March, waiting lists have just grown, and it is of course not just the names of a piece of paper, but Danish citizens who are waiting for their turn in the health system. What is the Minister's message to the Danes who are currently waiting in uncertainty as to when it will be their turn?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142914	First of all, I understand that there is uncertainty and that there is uncertainty. I must say that I also have an incredibly great understanding of that. Therefore, a gratitude from me to all our staff in the health service, who have really changed and worked hard and who are now facing the new task, namely humpback heaving as it is called in here in the Danish Parliament, but it is of course people that it is all about. They must have those queued for an operation operated so that we can restore our patients' rights as soon as possible and in all sectors of the health care, both in psychiatric and somatic conditions. There's a plan for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603142956-2	Thank you. It is now clear that the government has followed its own gut, if I may say so, in the decommissioning of Denmark. We have shut down more and more than the authorities recommended. It is problematic in itself that the government believes it is wiser than the strongest capabilities in this area, but it will, of course, have an extra layer if the government hesitates more than necessary to reopen the country, including giving the Danes their investigation and patient rights back as soon as possible. Can the Minister imagine reintroducing patients' rights earlier than has been proposed if the covid-19 situation continues to develop as positively as we have seen for a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143043	It is part of the national plan that the regions should give priority to the rapid investigation of patients, as the questioner also mentioned earlier. In other words, they must give priority to a more rapid investigation. That is, of course, the whole basis for prioritising between patients and finding out who to take first. For the whole foundation of the resumption of health care activity is to provide a medical assessment of which patients need to be first. Those who are in the greatest pain and those who can get serious but, if they do not have an operation, of course must first do so. That is why clarification is important, and that is why the analysis is the first priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143123	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1299, which is addressed to the Minister for Health and the Elderly by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs as a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143135	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143136	When does the Minister think it should be possible to stay in a restaurant or bar until later than kl. 24?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143143	Thank you for that question. Last week I replied to Question No 4 by Mr McMahon on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 1233 from the same question asks why I think it is important for health services to close at 12:00. 24:00. At that time, I replied, among other things, that the political agreement on the second phase of a controlled reopening of Denmark from 7 May shows that restaurants and cafes and the like can serve under detailed guidelines, among others. concerning opening hours, physical distance, etc. In other words, it is actually provided for in the political agreement that, among other things, it is. consideration of whether restrictions should be imposed in relation to exactly opening hours. I would like to stress again today that the most important thing for the government is that we take decisions that are sound in terms of health and that minimise the risk of infection. In my reply last week, the Danish Health Service had clarified what was the basis for their recommendations on closing times, and it appears from their reply that there is no health professional evidence to recommend a specific closing time for serving places, but that it must be pragmatic to close at a time when guests must be presumed to be able to comply adequately with the general recommendations. So it is not the health authorities who have said that it is just at 8 a.m. 24, that service stations must close, that is the sectoral partnership of the Ministry of Business, with the participation of among others. the economic and social partners, who, in the light of the recommendations of the health authorities, have drawn up guidelines, including: about closing times for serving points. And I agree that this is a very sensible guideline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143318	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143318-2	Thank you. So when the Minister says that this is a very sensible guideline, I understand that the Minister thinks that after 1 p.m. 24 it cannot be assumed that guests will be able to comply with the general recommendations. The Minister therefore believes that people are simply too drunk after 1 p.m. 24, so that they can be out, and that is why the Minister thinks it is a good idea that service places should close at 8:00. 24?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143344	Unfortunately, or fortunately, it can be said, no more correctly, that we are now trying to put words in my mouth for the second week in a row. That is not my opinion! You can talk it up and turn it into a big, big political fight, and if we do that, it might be better to find another minister to talk to, because I am not the type who wants to. For the second week in a row, I would like to say quite frankly that there is no single health care issue to justify the fact that it is just at 9 a.m. 24.00 that it isn't 24.00 that it isn't 24.00 that it's not 24.00. 11.30 p.m. or 11.30 p.m. 00.10 for example, but it should be the case that health authorities say that the opening hours should be reduced, which the parties have also signed in the political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143426	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143427	After all, we are using Question Time to hear what the Minister's position is, and I can clearly see that it annoys the Minister that the Minister should deal with a rule for which the Minister is ultimately responsible. That's why I'm asking what's going on at 9:00. 24:00. Why is it that the minister believes that it is not responsible for us Danes to be out at serving places, restaurants and taverns after kl. 24? The Minister stands here at Question Time and refers to all sorts of others in an attempt to manifestly disclaim responsibility. So that is why I am asking: Does the Minister think that the Danes will be too full to be able to comply with the general guidelines if they are after 8 a.m. 24:00? I ask, after all, that the Minister himself has said that this rule should not apply in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143514	It is true, it is by no means our plan that the rule should apply in the future. But my answer is the same. You have the right to ask all the questions you want, but you cannot change the answer I give, and the answer is exactly the same here: No, it is not the case that I claim, or that someone is claiming that it will never be possible to do it at any place or restaurant after midnight. It will probably be possible to make health professionals sound in some places, but the health authorities say so, and the party leaders have endorsed and agreed that general guidelines should be drawn up, including for opening hours, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143559	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs as a co-questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143600	Is the Minister's answer to this question to be understood as meaning that it is really about the appropriations for alcohol? Could it possibly be imagined that restaurants, inns and other things could have food serving, but not alcohol serving, also after kl. 24? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143627	Many different models could probably be imagined. One could imagine a myriad of different models. I think you just have to be aware of the implications that models like that will bring. And when we read the recommendations that we have received, all the parties have received, and it is completely open recommendations from the expert group, which all of Denmark has been able to read, if you have had an interest in it they say precisely that you cannot look at one element, you have to look at all the elements. And that's why there's not just one element you can look at. One has to look at what else it will have to do with night activity in society, and one can of course judge that it is possible to have significant night activity in a society. The health service just estimates that it's probably wise to have some close-ups. When exactly it has to be, then what has been discovered in that cooperation is in that sectoral partnership, and I will not be here to decide what to find out in that sectoral partnership. I think it is wise that they have taken that responsibility. I think it's great that they've taken that responsibility. We should pay tribute to that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143731	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143731-2	However, like Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, I can hear that the Minister is trying to involve all sorts of other partners in the responsibility for the Minister's rule here. I therefore ask the Minister's position, that is to say in the heart of the heart: could he imagine that the Minister would be in favour of being able to serve food, but not alcohol, on a restaurant after 8 a.m. 24?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143804	I would very much like to assess that, but I will, of course, listen a great deal to our CDC expert group on this subject, for example. It will be possible to make some calculations of what this would mean for the activity of society and to look at how the sectoral partnership could also identify it if necessary. I mean, I have no desire to shut down any part of society more than necessary, but we are still standing away in a situation now that we finally have the epidemic under control, and we must not let it go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143842	Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143843	But couldn't the Minister just answer the question that has been asked, namely when does the Minister think it should be possible to be back at serving places after 8 p.m. 24? It is a fairly simple question to ask the Minister. Then the Minister begins to talk about all sorts of elements that need to be looked at. If the Minister thinks there are all sorts of elements, could the Minister not list what sort of things need to be looked at in order for the Minister to be able to decide when the Minister will allow you to be out at the servers after 8 a.m. 24? Well, I'm simply asking when the minister is giving up this nanny role that the minister has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603143922	Well, sometimes in life there are very simple questions to which there are not very simple answers. This is a very simple question; I admit that. As well as it's a simple question when we're done with this corona epidemic. I guess we all wish we could answer that, but I'm afraid I can't answer that. After all, our scientists get new knowledge of how this virus is contagious week by week. The latest thing we've started to learn about is super-infected individuals and super-infected events, where people are close together and infect hundreds of new infection chains, which then come into our society. I will not accept that we should have a situation in which a minister is asked to answer to guess when the corona epidemic is over. I can't, and neither will I. Eva Kjer Hansen That wasn't the question either. )
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144011	Then the question is over. Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The next question is also to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 1318.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144026	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144028	Yes, thank you, and I'll read it out. It is this: does the Minister agree that it is important to have a high degree of transparency about the basis for the decommissioning of Denmark on 11 March, and can the Minister state which authorities recommended that the government shut down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144049	The government has continuously acted on the basis of a desire to be open and inclusive in the management of the Corona crisis. At the same time, at the beginning of March, we were able to see how the spread of infection was dangerously rapid and resolute action was needed to mitigate the spread of the virus in Denmark. The figures speak for themselves: On 1 March we had 4 infected with covid-19, on 11 March we had 514 infected with covid-19 in Denmark. From 1 to 11 March the figure went from 4 to 514. Healthcare advice was clear at the time: we should have broken the chains of infection. The recommendation was therefore to reduce human contact and activity as much as possible. The authorities presented a number of tools that we could use. Something came from the Danish Health Service, including minimising the activity and social human contact... that's what I was talking about... avoiding public transport during rush hour, encouraging homework and limiting visits to nursing homes and hospitals. At the same time, there were elements of the changes in the epidemic law that the Danish Health Authority did not at that time consider necessary. It has also been openly presented to the Folketing. However, it is not only the Danish Health Authority that has advised the government, it has also done a large number of other health authorities, including the Statens Serum Institute, and authorities, moreover, both nationally and internationally. So we obtained the elements from a wide range of authorities, and in the end, as the government has already said from the outset, it was a political decision, which tools were used, and the government is fully committed to doing so. When various considerations are to be balanced, it must be a political decision which will, of course, be based on the advice of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144237	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. After all, as the Minister may remember, last week in the Parliamentary Chamber we also tried to get an answer to this question and not so much an assessment of whether it was sensible or not to shut down. After all, there is much to suggest that it was sensible to do so, at least in some form. But we would like answers to the question: was it on the recommendation of the authorities and, if so, which authorities that they chose to shut down? I think there is a slightly different answer today, but it is still not an answer to the question I am asking here in the Chamber. I would just like to repeat that, because, of course, we, as members of parliament, who have to exercise some kind of parliamentary control over the government, expect us to get answers to the questions that are being asked. I would therefore like to repeat the question to the Minister, so that we are sure that the answer will be quite clear and unambiguous, and the question is this: can the Minister state whether there was a health professional who recommended that decommissioning? And can the Minister state whether there was any authority at all recommending the decommissioning? When I ask in this way, it is because the Prime Minister said that it was on the recommendation of the authorities that they chose to shut down. So my question to the Minister for Health is this: were there any authorities that recommended to the government that they shut down and was it a health professional authority that recommended the decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144426	That is exactly what I am saying today, as I said the last time we had this discussion. It is always a pity to repeat oneself, but one has to do so when one gets the same question. In other words, the government consulted in the days leading up to the partial decommissioning with a number of ministries and a number of authorities and also with international organisations. Such a comprehensive decision is based not only on advice from one authority, but it is a political responsibility in which a number of relevant authorities have been consulted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144504-2	I am in favour of this, in other words the government consulted a number of authorities, and I hope that this will be done in all the kinds of decisions that need to be taken in relation to the corona effort. But the question is, and I would like to repeat it again: was there an authority that recommended the closure and that is what the Prime Minister said?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144529	It should be borne in mind that the correct quotation is: the authorities. It was the majority that was said at that press conference. We have never said that there was one authority that now took over responsibility in Denmark. The responsibility is the responsibility of the government, the responsibility was the responsibility of the government, and we stand by that. And there you can find out, like Parliament and voters, if we did the right thing in time to deal with the epidemic. But we consulted a number of authorities
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144605	Yeah, let's try one more time for Prince Canute. The minister says "and that's right, that's what the Prime Minister said "the authorities recommended the shutdown." Then I ask the Minister what kind of authority it was or what authority did it. Does the Minister for Health not think that the Danes are entitled to know who recommended what the Prime Minister said at that press conference? Is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144641	Such a comprehensive decision is not and cannot be based on advice from one authority alone. Several different authorities, including, of course, health authorities, are involved in the group with which the government consults. Then it is the government that makes a political decision and the decision that we made, I am quite convinced, helped to ensure that we in Denmark stopped the very, very disastrous increase in the number of admissions and the pressure of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144722	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup and Minister for Health and the Elderly. The next minister to be asked questions is the Minister for Transport, and the question has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. That is first of all Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144748	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144751	Thank you for that, President. My question is this: what is the Minister's view that national rail traffic in Denmark has decreased significantly in the period from 2009 to 2019, given that 132 billion were granted during the same period. kr. to the operation and construction of the railway, and in view of the fact that during the same period there was a good increase in national traffic in countries such as Sweden, Norway, Germany and the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603144821	Thank you for the question. Of course, as I hardly have to say, I take the railways as seriously as the questioner does. That is why I am actually pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss it here today under two questions, and that is why I consider it primarily constructive that the questioner has asked the question. However, I should just like to draw your attention to a small point in relation to the premise of the sum of 132 billion, which the questioner mentions. kr. granted, please refer to the answer to question No. S 298. For if you isolate the part that is about what has actually been invested in new installations on the railway, then it is a considerably smaller amount we are talking about, in fact, an amount, an appropriation of 35 billion. kr. over all 10 years and a move on the appropriation of just 28.8 billion. kr. Here, then, some of the explanation for part of the challenge lies in the fact that there are a number of the major projects on which we have agreed jointly, which have not been sufficiently decommissioned and which have also been seriously delayed. So, of course, we need to look at some of the inherent forces that are in the railroad. It is not least, of course, to transport many people quickly between the large cities and, moreover, to transport many people in the densely built areas. The train also plays a central role in the interaction with other modes of transport: buses, cars, bicycles and, in general, in ensuring greater mobility and also with other forms of transport. It could be car parts, bikes and everything else. So the interaction between modes of transport is very important. And if we are to strengthen it and exploit the strength of the train, we must invest wisely and in the right projects, and that is also what will be the government's process forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145026	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145027	Thank you for your answer. Yes, we are very much in agreement that we cannot do without the railroad. In terms of commuting, but also in terms of distance, the railway is of great importance to our society, and it must of course play as best as possible together with, among others. cycling and car traffic. We are in complete agreement on this. That's also why we've given this a lot of money together. I understand that not all of them have yet found a drain, and that is one of the problems. For people in society know very well that we have allocated a great deal of money to the railways, and therefore also have some legitimate expectations that improvements will be made. But that's what this is all about. And that is one of the challenges that we must work together to resolve here now. If you look at Denmark, there is a fall of 17 per cent. in the number of passengers on long-distance trains. In Sweden there is an increase of 21 per cent, in Norway an increase of 31 per cent, in Germany an increase of 21 per cent. and in the United Kingdom an increase of 30%. What does the Minister think is the reason for the very creepy figure, which is, after all, there, despite the fact that we have actually allocated so much money to the railways?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145135	Some of this is, of course, due to the fact that during the same period car traffic has also increased and car ownership has increased. At the same time, there have also been various measures • not least Storebæltsrat and the kind of things that make it more attractive to choose the passenger car over the railroad. At the same time, we have had the challenges of implementing the projects that have been decided upon. In other words, the fact that we have invested widely in the railways is not the same as the fact that the projects are then carried out in good time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145214	Thank you. I myself believe that the crucial thing for passengers is that trains are running on time, that they can rely on the road map, which is why there is a very important concept of punctuality about the whole planning of our train system. That is also why I think it is worthwhile to dwell on the fact that the Ministry, in the recently completed rail service review, says something about the customer friendliness requirements for DSB, as in 2020, for example. is 86 per cent, which is well above what has been achieved in the previous year and is around 79 per cent, and I see that the Minister is proposing to reduce the requirement for customer transparency for DSB. What good does it do passengers if we politicians reduce the demand for DSB instead of trying to solve it and get more trains on time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145304	In fact, it is implicit in the large investments that are going to be made on the railroad in the coming years, when it is natural, when you do a piece of roadwork on a road, that people understand that you have to reduce speed. Unfortunately, this is a bit the same challenge that we have on the railways, namely that trains must then be installed during the period of disruption of train traffic, and this will have a direct consequence. So it's actually not so much about DSB, but really more about Banedanmark and that if there's even a channel to run on. And we need to be realistic about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145343	Yes, I agree with that, and I will come over to Banedanmark on the next question. But I'd like to dwell a little more on this requirement. Because I understand that the government is proposing to switch to so-called forecasts from 2020, which then downgrades the forecasts in relation to what can be realistically achieved. And then that is what is being set as a requirement for DSB, and that is what you do every year. Who does the Minister intend to take a position on such reduced demands? Is this a political position, or is it something that has to happen administratively between the department and the DSB?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145418	I imagine that we will also have to discuss those things when we look at long-term agreements, about infrastructure and transport at all. However, I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that we cannot demand that DSB and other players can drive better than that of the rails and signalling systems, etc. allows. That is why we have to live with a shorter period for some years, when there may be a reduced punctuality, so that we can then get out on the other side and have a much better punctuality. And we do not disagree that the goal is a much better customerivity than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145451	Thank you. The question is over. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Transport, and which has also been asked by Mr Van Miert. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and that is Question No. 1297.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145502	Thank you for that, President. The question is as follows: What is the Minister's view that, according to the government's service review of the railway from May 2020, the Danish railway appears worn out, out-of-date, challenged and technologically backward, given that 132 billion were granted in the period from 2009 to 2019. kr. on the construction and operation of the railway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145526	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is quite true that in the service inspection, which is raw for unsweetened, unmarked, the truth on the table, the prune on the counter, it is clear that, despite the investments made and which I mentioned in the previous question, the railroad is about. 28.8 billion kr. has been invested in new plant for a 10-year period... appears to be worn out, out-of-date, challenged and technologically backward. And that is because there is insufficient investment in the railways over the years. I should like to stress that it is not only in the past ten years that the questioner has mentioned, but that it is in fact over a long period before that. The electrification was stopped in the 1990s, and we have signals that are between 50 and 100 years old, and the train IC4 that should have been the mainstay of Danish train operation, unfortunately we all know the story about. It is obvious that this is not a situation we can live with, and that is also why I am pleased that a broad majority in the Folketing has actually supported a new course, a new path. We need new signalling systems because the old people can't last much longer, we need electrified rail because we can't continue to live with the running of trains in Denmark on diesel, and we also need new trains, the trains of the future, because that is what the Danes deserve in the 21st century. The three projects - new signals, electrification and the train of the future - are inextricably linked. We cannot have one without the others, but once the investments have been made they will help to create a more modern railway which no longer appears worn out, which no longer appears out of fashion, which no longer appears challenged and which no longer appears technologically backward. In this context, it is also important to note that only about a quarter of the cost of the railway has actually gone to new investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145727	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145728	I would like to sign that a service inspection has been carried out at all, so that we get an overview across the railroad. I think what has been missing has been that we got that overview across, among other things. DSB and Banedanmark, so that we know what it means for the other part of the sector if we do this and that with one part. So I would like to sign for that, and I can also guarantee that we will help constructively to follow it up. But it is a very serious characteristic of our railway and, although there are good explanations for much of it, I think there is more to do politically. We're gonna have to go deeper. Among other things: I think that there could be a problem with the way we organise the railway. The question is whether Banedanmark has gotten too many balls in the air. As the Minister said in response to an earlier question, there are a great many projects that have not been rolled out because they are being delayed and there are other reasons for this. Could it be that Banedanmark simply does not have the strength to have so many balls in the air at once and that this may be the reason why there are delays and expense, and that we are actually spending a lot of money without feeling the effect, and that ultimately it is hurting passengers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145837	It is not a secret, as far as the new railway is concerned, which is to be built over West Funen, that for the part of the work that is to be done in the open country, it is not exactly with Banedanmark, but that part of the implementation is placed with the Road Directorate. And it is of course from a view that Banedanmark has many tasks. But in addition to the fact that Banedanmark has many balls in the air, they also have suppliers who have many balls in the air and on which they can be heavily dependent, and where suppliers can become actual stop blocks • actual stop blocks • for some of the projects that Banedanmark has to carry out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145915	I welcome the fact that an attempt is being made to relieve Banedanmark, among others. by the new railroad across West Funen. I think that's very much needed, and I'd like to follow up on that with the resources of Banedanmark. Until about a year ago, I didn't know the term validator. Now I have found out that it is a very important function in the rail sector, a trained person, a very experienced person who is able to assess these projects. And they have become a scarce resource, a bottleneck, which means that the projects are often delayed and expensive. That is why I would like to ask: will the Minister involve the parties in managing the validator resources, which are, after all, absolutely essential for the success of the many construction projects on the railways?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603145959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150000	Indeed, I imagine, if the calendar permits us all, that we will be discussing exactly that question tomorrow at the meeting to which I have called the transport rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150022	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm ready, I'll clear the calendar. In conclusion, I would just like to make it clear that I think it is very important that we now focus our efforts on getting trains on time on our existing railway and that we stop launching new large-scale prestige projects like this down through East Jutland with a new railway and a railway bridge over Vejle Fjord. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees with that approach. Now let's focus on making the trains run on time. I think that's what lures the passengers back in the compartments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150049	There is no doubt that what needs to be done on the very short track is the three major projects I indicated, i.e. an electrification, a signal system and new trains in a slightly different order, because the signal system has to be in place before we can complete the electrification, and it is of course also a new railway over West Funen, which has to be done simultaneously. However, where the main focus is to be, the resources needed to implement the projects already decided, and in particular the signal system, which has now, fortunately, as indicated in the service review, come into being in a positive way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150134	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. We move on to the next question, No. 1307, to the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150147	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150150	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's view that a large Danish beneficiary, Oxfam IBIS, is running a campaign against the Lagkage House?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150159	First of all, thank you for the question. I can inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has good cooperation with Oxfam IBIS, among others. through the strategic partnerships and through the Danish-Arab Partnership Programme. As far as the campaign in question is concerned, it is financed exclusively by members' contributions to the Oxfam IBIS. So there has been no funding from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the campaign. And let me say here, two days before we celebrate our constitution, Denmark's free constitution, that I fully respect civil society's right to express myself, both in Denmark and in developing countries. For even though our constitution is now an older lady of 171 years, it is still important and necessary that we uphold its principles and freedoms. This also applies to freedom of expression. Unfortunately, in the global South, we see a tendency for the covid-19 pandemic to be abused to suppress civil society's room for manoeuvre, human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Interventions in freedom of expression and economic punishments against organisations that express themselves are among the limitations of which we see examples, and this is indeed deeply worrying, and we Danish side strongly oppose this. That is why I am also very proud and happy to defend the principles and rights that we find in our Danish constitution around the world. I would therefore also like to make it quite clear that, as Minister for Development, I do not and should not have any influence on, or an opinion on, what campaigns individual civil society organisations are running for their own funds. I hope that the Liberal Alliance and the rest of Denmark also agree with me that we must guard our freedoms and protect freedom of expression in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150352	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150353	I am very much in agreement with the Minister on this last point. So there is no one in the Folketing who should forbid Oxfam IBIS to run campaigns against Danish companies and accuse them of cheating on taxes, even if they have not cheated on taxes. What I would like to hear from the Minister is what is being spent on supporting millions of tax dollars, namely the Oxfam IBIS organisation. I know that there is no political support for the campaigns they are running, but when it is relevant anyway, it is because the fact that Oxfam IBIS is running some untrue campaigns against, for example, the Lagkage House that they should cheat on taxes and get away with it is something that is inside and tampering with something as fundamental as the trust and cohesion of our society. If it succeeds in laying down a tale that companies in Denmark can cheat on taxes, while the Danish Parliament ignores it, without the tax administration discovering it, without the courts being able to do anything about it, and that is what Oxfam IBIS claims you are in and tampering with something very fundamental: confidence in democracy and confidence in the institutions of our community of law, and I believe that Oxfam IBIS helps to undermine it when they make false claims about Danish companies. We are indirectly helping to pay 155 million. kr. The Minister must have an opinion on whether you want to support organisations that may be doing some fine developmental work, but which also contribute to undermining confidence in Danish society, or whether you would rather not support some other organisations that do not thereby undermine confidence in Danish society. Just as we say with the aid packages that we want to help people to protect their employees with wage compensation, but that we do not want to protect those employees if it is the case that the company is in tax havens, one can surely also say in connection with development organisations that they want to support, but if they otherwise undermine confidence in Danish society, they cannot get tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150534	Well, it is quite right that when we look at something as important as trust in a society and the fact that everyone contributes with what they have to do, it is very crucial, and that is something that I, as Minister for Development, point out when I work with developing countries. In relation to the organisation Oxfam IBIS, they have invited in on some concrete projects where they solve some specific tasks for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for Denmark, and these are the projects for which they are paid. They don't get money from the Secretary of State to do other campaigns. There it is an organisation that is completely free and democratically collecting membership quotas and doing the campaigns they want, and who can, and I should not interfere with their freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150619	But by sending a check for 150 million. kr. of taxpayers' money directly into the pockets of Oxfam IBIS every year, you are helping to strengthen that organization, and that organization is also being strengthened in undermining confidence in Danish society. I just want to know if the Minister agrees with me that it doesn't necessarily mean regulation that running erroneous campaigns based on untruths against Danish companies, that they should cheat on taxes when that is not the case, is helping to undermine the confidence of Danish society. And does the Minister agree that, in principle, we do not want those organisations to get state aid thrown into their necks, regardless of what that state aid is going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150655	My task as Minister for Development is to ensure that the money I pay out goes to solve the tasks that are defined. And there I have no reason to criticise Oxfam IBIS. They solve the tasks they have been asked to solve, and they live up to that. What they do for their own membership crowns, I cannot and will not interfere with as long as they comply with the country's rules. And that's how they use their constitutional freedom of expression. If anyone has a problem with how they express themselves, they have to deal with it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150729	We could take the hypothetical example that Oxfam IBIS instead of lying about Danish companies and accusing them of breaking laws when that is not the case, behaved as Rasmus Paludan does by spreading falsehoods about some fellow citizens in the community, perhaps some ethnic minorities. Let's say it was a hobby job for Oxfam IBIS next to the charitable work for which they get support crowns. If that were the case, would the Minister also take that position and say: that is fine, they are allowed to behave like Rasmus Paludan, because the tax dollars go to something else? Or would the Minister still think: No, the kind of division and behavior I simply do not support with tax dollars; we find some others who can carry out these tasks for charitable work in third world countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150806-2	Now it is the case that Oxfam IBIS is making a huge effort with humanitarian interventions, among others. in Syria, Lebanon and Yemen; they have also been engaged in the Danish-Arab Partnership Programme; they have even made the development calendar back in 2016 • a good and honest piece of work, which we are happy to support from the Danish government. What we can legally relate to is: if there are organisations that bid to do a task, they get money according to the tasks they solve; and we cannot interfere in how they express themselves. And I think it's a little strange, here two days before the Constitutional Day, that a politician in the Danish Parliament is beginning to challenge freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150853	Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation, and thank you to Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education, and that is what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party with enquires Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150905	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150910	Thank you. How, in the view of the Minister, can it be ensured that young people living in a room and living in a place which, due to the corona crisis, has lost momentum in their training courses can have extra time added to the course?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150933	The Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603150934	Well, thank you so much for that question. This is actually an issue which is very close to my heart, and that is why I have also met with the stakeholders who sit in fgu, stu and tamu, etc., simply to keep my ears on the water pipes, compared to where the young people who have been at home during this period and throughout this process that has been difficult are. As far as the Tamu students are concerned, there has been no repatriation, but that is why the upheavals that have taken place in our society can, of course, set themselves for vulnerable groups anyway. Therefore, I have chosen to listen very much and also taken the initiative to meet with a 14-day injury in the coming time. So when they've got the kids a little more under their fingernails... it's pretty new for them that the whole herd is back... they can give feedback on this very problem. Of course, I also intend to bring this into the political follow-up group that we have, where the rapporteur also participates, so that we can have a joint discussion on how to tackle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151033	So that's what's happening. I fully agree that there are some young people who have actually felt very good about being at home and actually have both learned and developed, and then there are some who have actually missed 1-2 months of the momentum they should have had. I am thinking of the fact that we need to ensure that they are actually given the opportunity to have an extension, and that is in the near future. It can be said that the task lies somewhere in the municipalities, out in the youth units. I know that we are in complete agreement, that is to say that they are the ones who have the task. But the challenge for me is to see how we can ensure that they actually carry out the task, so that we do not have in 2-3 months' time some young people who have gone out of these offers without actually getting to where, according to the plan, they should have reached, so that they can actually move on in either a job or further training.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151131	So, I would say that the Ministry has made a shepherd's letter to the Fgu institutions to draw attention to the rules in force so that they are aware of it. After all, these are new institutions, and it is their first year that they are running through now. In other words, making clear and making them aware of what is, like, the rule base seemed to us to be important. Then I actually think, and I think the experience here during corona has been that things move so fast. It is good that we are predicting this problem, I would like to say that the rapporteur has taken it up with me earlier. But I also believe that we must follow it on a relatively close basis in order to be sure that it does not happen, that it is not lifted. Because they shouldn't actually fall between two chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151213	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151213-2	No, and it is nice that the Minister has sent something to the institutions. Has the Minister sent the same thing out to the municipalities, the youth units, so that they actually know? After all, it is they who must ensure that the funds are there and that the extension is approved. And in the same vein, I do not hear the Minister say anything about the students, because they face the same challenge: they have also been gone and may even need some additional measures, because the challenges they face are often considerably greater than those of the Fgu students. So there may be things that need to be picked up and things that need to be done. So could one imagine a shepherd's letter there too, given that the municipalities ensure that the offers in which they have now placed the students are also extended to the extent necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151255	One can imagine a great many different things, including what the questioner mentions. However, this requires that we have first of all received a message from the sector. At the first meeting, the sector took the view that it was simply too early to assess yet. And now there's only a week left for me to hold the next meeting of the 14-day injury, and there I think they have a better overview of it. And that is to say, before we start just picking up random tools from the toolbox, I would like to know from them, also relatively often, how things stand, whether there are problems and whether there are some gaps we are not aware of. And then I think we should solve them as they arise, and there I am willing to open the toolbox and look down into what can then hit those problems best.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151333	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151337	Thank you. I fully agree with my good colleague, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl in that we are in a situation where some of the fgu students and students so much need to have their education extended simply because they have not received the professional learning they need to move on. Some of them, fortunately, are working well; some of them are also taking initial vocational training at their Fgu institution and are going into a course which is not a course of instruction at the institution but a course of vocational training. After all, the government has completely forgotten about the fugitive students who are under the egu scheme in relation to the tripartite agreement that has been made. This means that there are some fgu institutions that are currently in a real, really pressured situation, because they have both some pupils who lack learning from the educational situation, but they are also in a situation where their probability of obtaining an internship has been significantly reduced by the tripartite agreement concluded by the government. And I would also like to hear from the Minister what the Minister will do to avoid losing the pupils there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151450	I am not quite sure what the questioner means by the fact that the government has forgotten egu, so the questioner will have to clarify that in order for me to give a proper answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151501	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151502	But we are faced with some fgu students who have lost a few months of education, which may be absolutely crucial for some of them to get on well in a course, and we are at the same time in a situation where some of them go on an egu course at the same time see that almost full pay compensation is now being paid to the students coming from vocational education, that is, from the eud system. However, those who go into the fgu system via the egu will not at the same time experience that they get the economic help provided by the tripartite agreement. Well, these fucking fucking students are making them even more vulnerable than they would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151539	But as a minister, I am fully aware of that, and that is why I did not really understand the fact that we should have forgotten anyone. As you know, the Egu students have nothing to do with the AUB system. In addition, the rapporteur himself has helped to table a motion for a resolution which would not even give the apprentices a hand in hand; it would simply pay out the money flat to the employers without making any counterclaims. I haven't forgotten anyone, so I'm fully aware of the issues for the egu students, and of course I'm also going to follow them up. It just has nothing to do with the apprenticeship agreement, as the rapporteur's party certainly did not intend to do, as it has now become.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151615	Then it's Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151618	What I hear and hope I can conclude on this is that the Minister is following very closely so that we ensure that neither among the Fgu students, the students nor the Fgu students will ever experience having received the support and help that they will actually get through with the result they would like to have, so that we can all be sure that they will eventually reach the level and education that they now individually need.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151655-2	In fact, this is the way I feel, and it is so in general terms, and especially for this group, that I am very concerned about young people in general, and then I am concerned about this group in particular, and that is because it is a group that is particularly vulnerable. That is to say, when we talk about fgu, when we talk about living room, and when we talk about tamu, it is to me to see some of the groups, especially in crisis situations, that we have to have a special look at. So I would like to shake hands with the fact that this is something I intend to keep following very closely, and where I will certainly return to the parties of the Folketing if and when there is a need to use additional tools. So thank you very much for raising the question too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151733	Thank you. The question is over. We move on to the next question, No. 1322, which is also for the Minister for Children and Education. That's what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, and co-questioner is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151744	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151747	Thank you. Does the Minister consider this to be a deliberate distortion between the municipal and private day-to-day offers and the basic principle of equality of the day-to-day offer law when the political agreement of 22 April 2020 has agreed on equal treatment of offers in relation to financial compensation, when instead the reality is that municipal day-to-day offers have been compensated for additional costs in the context of reopening, while private offers have not yet been compensated for the additional costs of, for example, the local day-to-day services? cleaning and reimbursement of parental payments as a result of the corona closure?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151820	The political agreement of 22 April 2020 states that additional costs linked to the reopening of daily offers will be included in a comprehensive agreement with KL on covid-19-related expenditure, and the political agreement also indicates that the funds will be provided to the municipalities under one. Part of the compensation relates to the municipal private offers financed, and private offers under the daily offer law are financed through the municipality and no direct grants are granted by the State. The compensation for the privately funded private offers is therefore made via the municipalities as part of the total compensation. A short time ago, the government reached an agreement with KL on the municipalities' economy for 2021, and the municipalities are compensated for a total of 2.6 billion. kr. in 2020 for the management of additional costs related to the corona. It covers, among other things: additional cleaning costs in connection with both municipal and private offers in 2020 and a differentiated parental payment in day-to-day offers in connection with the reopening. The total compensation is therefore not an expression of a distortion. Then the government has placed emphasis on a local freedom to define the criteria for compensation, and therefore it is up to a local assessment based on the local conditions for which the individual municipalities choose to compensate the daily offers. I would like to say that everyone is free to vote in connection with the municipal elections. Personally, I am voting for the Social Democratic Party, and that is how we share our views on local elections, and if you disagree with the way in which priority is given in the municipality, then you have to think carefully about where to put your cross next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603151950	I am fully aware that this has been done so that it will be part of the municipal agreement that has been made, that money has been set aside and that, hopefully, that funds will also be made available in the Finance Committee. But what I really ask in this context is: does the Minister, on the basis of the agreement we have made ourselves, think that compensation must be made both in municipal institutions and in private institutions, that it is reasonable that the municipal institutions have been largely compensated but that the private institutions have not been compensated? They don't know when they get anything; they don't know what they get; they don't know how much they get; and they are completely dependent on what they think was reasonable in each municipal council. Is it a fair distribution when we have actually said in a joint agreement that we want the private institutions to be compensated on an equal footing with the public authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152048	But it is in the political agreement that the funds are given to the municipalities under one, and that means that it would be to start interfering in the municipal decisions that then lie on the back of it. If the Danish People's Party wanted to have it, one should have asked for it or sat down at the negotiating table or said no to the agreement. I am very glad that you haven't done so. But in the agreement, the municipalities are compensated below one, which means that when you do, there is less leash in ensuring that the money goes exactly to the things you want to do. This is the eternal question between the state and the municipality. So I'm incredibly happy that the Danish People's Party is in the agreement... don't misunderstand that... but it's just to say that that's what's in the agreement, and that's why I would say that everyone has entered with open eyes, that means that the municipalities can then assess differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152132	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152133	But surely there is nothing to prevent the government from saying to the municipalities in relation to the payment of money that this money should actually also cover the private institutions? Well, it was part of the deal. At any rate, it was my understanding of the agreement we have reached that it is true that the money is coming through the municipalities, because that is now the way the money flows out, namely that the municipalities pay to the private institutions, but that the private institutions should be compensated and also compensated fairly and at the same level as the municipal authorities are compensated. Would it not be reasonable for the government to say that this is the way it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152209	I believe that this is the same discussion that we have forever and ever about the relationship between the economy of the state and the municipalities. The agreement states that we have set aside the amount that will allow the municipalities to compensate. It is certainly the intention of the agreement that we should set aside an amount which would enable the whole sector to be compensated fairly. That's what we've wanted from in here. Then it is the case that when you give the money to the municipalities under one, which is what lies in this agreement, it is not a shell tool. Then it is the case that the money is distributed under one, and then there are municipal priorities, and that is the relationship between the economy of the state and the municipalities. Everyone who is in this agreement has decided that this is how you allocate the money. Otherwise, you have to do it in pools or use other types of methods where you can better keep a leash in the money, but we haven't done that with this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152305	Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152308	After all, the Minister has said in several rounds during the decommissioning and in connection with the agreements we have made in connection with the Corona that it was not now that ideological struggles had to be fought. And that is also the clear view we have in relation to the agreement we have made to have compensated not only the municipal day-care institutions, but also the private day-care institutions and the self-serving day-care institutions. It is also our clear view that this is what we have agreed politically, that this was not an ideological struggle on the part of the government, where we would now again try to see whether we could not avoid paying the bill that was left out by the private and self-serving institutions. And I also have a clear expectation that the government will then live up to the political agreement we have reached, and that precisely the corona closure will not be used to leave the private and self-serving institutions with a large bill for extra cleaning, hand alcohol and extra educational staff as a result of the health-care guidelines that exist. This is not the first time we have asked the Minister and the government about this. We have done so over the last few months with countless questions without getting any answers. That is why we are also asking the Minister in the Chamber today for a clear answer as to when the institutions can expect money to come to them at the extra cost that the Corona has also incurred.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152423-2	I believe that it is exactly the right line not to use the corona closure to run off ideological Hassans, and that is why it has been extremely important to me that we have had a very broad cooperation, both in the Folketing, but also with various stakeholders, on how we did these things best. And in the agreement that the questioner himself, as a former minister, has also made, it says that the municipalities will be compensated under one, which means that it is their responsibility to distribute the money. The Social Democratic Party has no desire to interfere in local self-government on this point on top of an agreement which so clearly establishes the opposite principle. Normally, the Left would not stand and say that, on top of the fact that an agreement has been reached, in which they are compensated under one and are therefore given money to be able both to provide compensation to the private and municipal institutions, they go in and interfere in the municipal economy. If you want to interfere, it is usually with either pools or other tools, because you have said from the outset that this is the way to get rid of them. So this is to follow the letter of the agreement and the way we enter into agreements at Christiansborg. I do not really know whether the Left regrets it or whether it has been abandoned to think that it is a good idea for municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152530	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152531	This isn't about local government at all. It is a question of whether the government is fulfilling the political agreement reached with the parties of the Folketing. I have never seen a situation in which a political agreement is reached in here, in which it is agreed that the municipal, the self-serving and the private institutions must of course all be compensated for the extra bill they have been charged as a result of the corona. So there are also ordinary children who go out in our own institutions, who have also had the need for hand-spirit, who are also subject to certain requirements, and where the government then runs from that agreement and just says: It is up to the municipalities to decide, and if the municipalities decide anything other than what the government has entered into a political agreement on, then it is, of course, municipal self-government. Well, excuse me: this is not how our culture of agreement works here at Christiansborg. And I really hope that the Minister will confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152615	It is quite clear in the agreement both what it is about, namely that the money is given to private, self-owned and municipal institutions quite broadly, and it also says that the money is given under one. And an economic agreement has been made with the municipalities, giving 2.6 billion. kr. to cover the cost of the corona. In other words, I believe that we are following that agreement, which is that we have set aside an amount so that we can cover the entire cost. And that means that it is completely customary to make agreements where you say that you give the money under one, that the municipalities then dispose. This is a sensible principle for municipal self-government, and I am actually a little surprised that the Left would like it to be abolished. I think that is actually completely new.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152659	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152700	I think it is very strange to hear the Minister argue that this is purely municipal autonomy and therefore we cannot do anything. The money that is given for minimum standards must be spent on something specific. There is money being given to the schools to the teachers and they need to be used for something specific. Here we have a situation where we have made a joint agreement that we want it to be there was at least broad agreement to compensate both the municipal institutions and the private institutions for the extra costs they have incurred. And we have announced to them that they are, of course, part of it, and therefore they could safely start spending the money needed to deliver the service that we wanted them to continue delivering in this time. And then you don't want to make sure they actually get them. In principle, they can risk municipalities around the country saying: we will not give them anything at all. And then they're behind, and they don't have any money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152753	If it were the case that both the Left and the Danish People's Party had thought that we should make an agreement on a pool from which we could then apply, then we would have had a different situation than the one we are in now. So yes, it is absolutely right that you can choose a method so that you are sure of one and the other and the third, and where you restrict municipal autonomy. We do that from time to time when we make agreements like that. The agreement we have reached here, which all the parties have approved and nodded to, says that the municipalities are compensated under one. In other words, this means that the money is transferred to the municipalities. They get enough money to cover the task, but they give priority even within municipal self-government. So I actually just keep to the deal. I'm old-fashioned enough to think that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152833	Thank you for that to the Minister for Children and Education and to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. 1283, to the Minister for Education and Research, presented by Mrs Bjerre from the Left and with Mr Bjerre. Torsten Schack Pedersen, also from the Left, as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152851	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152854	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that, in the context of the ongoing business cluster consolidations resulting from the new business promotion reform, a balanced geographical distribution of the 12 headquarters reflecting regional strength positions should be ensured?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152912	Yes, the Minister thinks so, and thanks for focusing on a very important discussion, namely how we ensure that the strong, vibrant and dynamic business community we have across the country, and which shows good examples across the country to good collaboration with our knowledge institutions, is also supported in exactly the system that should contribute to getting even better at it. So, yes, it is absolutely crucial to me as Minister that there is, of course, a balance in the distribution that we are currently in a process around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603152952	Thank you very much for the positive answer. In fact, I was almost astounded that this would be the answer, because I noticed that only a few hours ago, at least, the Minister was going to move the headquarters out of the capital. After all, this is a message that we as a North Jutlander are very happy about, and perhaps the announcement will even come because today we are a number of North Jutland parliament politicians who are actually asking questions about this matter, even to a North Jutland minister. If that is the case, we are in any case pleased that we have raised the matter here today. The minister can probably figure out that it is because we are actually also trying to lift a North Jutland case, because we have several positions of strength in North Jutland. One of the strengths is in the maritime industry and logistics. There we have a lot of power benefits. There we are currently consolidating, among other things. with the trade organisations, which have head offices here in Copenhagen. Therefore, of course, the concern arises whether the head office should also be in Copenhagen in this business cluster, when all these maritime professions are in North Jutland. That is actually why we are focusing on this matter, and we also think it is important to bring it to the attention of the Minister. What I really wanted to ask is whether the Minister thinks it is important for a Denmark in balance and the decentralised business promotion strategy to have cluster head offices distributed geographically throughout the country. I understand that the Minister agrees with that, and we are very pleased with it, as I said. I can also understand from the announcement that has been made for a few hours in the press that one will look at how more head offices can be moved out. What I would therefore like to ask instead is how the Minister will ensure this. Should the applications be reversed? Or how will the Minister decide on the distribution of these headquarters? Can the Minister try to clarify this a little more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153156	Thank you. I can reassure the questioner that both the government and I, as Minister, are very concerned about the geographical balance in our country, even when we are not explicitly asked about it. But it is, after all, still a recognition that there are many of us here at Christiansborg who have the focus in everything we do, including, of course, our business promotion system, which is the issue we are discussing today. This should be possible with a better balance, initially hopefully through dialogue, but otherwise by letting the post go over.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153234	Can the Minister explain how many of the applications have applied for the capital? And in relation to the fact that we want to ensure geographical balance, which, incidentally, we fully agree with: how does the government intend to do so? Is it going to be the case that each region should have one or two of these cluster headquarters?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153257	For me and for the government, it is important that the overall picture is more balanced and covers a larger part of the country than what is currently pictured by the applications. There was a deadline on Wednesday. Since then, of course, we have looked overall at the almost 3,000 pages of applications that have come. I cannot go down in the individual application, nor do I want to, but what I can at least deal with politically is that we need to have a better balance at the overall level. I hope that this can be done with dialogue. I actually believe it can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153332	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153335	Thank you. Of course, I also welcome the Minister's statement that there must of course be reason to believe that it is the questions that are now being dealt with in this Chamber that have been put to the Minister a few hours before. This would not be the first time in the history of Denmark if oral Article 20 questions in this Chamber had ministers react a little more quickly. However, I welcome the message, because that is what was intended, namely to ensure that there is a better regional balance, a better balance for Denmark, and that is, in fact, one of the main elements of this reform of the business promotion system that the previous government made. As I said, I welcome the reply from the Minister, but when I have looked at some of the things that lie behind it, among other things. the publication called "Erhvervspromoter" in Denmark 2020-2023; which, like giving the education for the clustering that is now, I just want to hear the minister: When in the process has the government made it clear that there should be a geographical spread of the location of the headquarters of the different clusters?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153450	It is, after all, the whole education, it lies in the whole strategy, also for the entire Business Promotion Board, that the regional angle is important. They have done so under the authority of the previous government. There have been discussions along the way as to whether the construction would lead to centralisation. We see that now, unfortunately, but that is why it is all the more important to have the political will to move in the other direction, so that the strong business community we have throughout the country is also reflected in the distribution that we see in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153524	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153525	I very much agree that a crucial objective of the reform of the business promotion system agreed under the former Left Government was precisely to ensure a stronger decentralized effort; leaving municipalities the primary point of entry. But the reason why I ask is not just in joy that the government has seen the light, but actually the light. Those who have sought, when did they come across a statement from the government that this was a parameter for the government before they submitted their application? I haven't been able to find it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153557	This is not a consideration in relation to the individual application. This is independent of the quality and purpose and content of each application. This is an overall perspective which, on behalf of the government, I would like to lay down on this overall assessment on the basis of the common foundation, including for the Business Promotion Board. It is not the individual cluster application that I contest, it is the overall picture and the distribution that we look into. And because it is an announcement, there is, in fact, political room for manoeuvre to say: we are going to let this change if we cannot have a better distribution of them through dialogue. And I'm willing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153638	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Bjerre with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153642	Thank you. Now my colleague asked what the overall picture looks like and whether it has been reported that it should be more geographically distributed. Can the Minister please elaborate on how these applications look, in other words, in relation to the fact that everyone has sought the capital? And in addition to that, I cannot help asking, also as North Jutland chose: So, can North Jutland expect to have a headquarters, for example within maritime or food or within energy? And is the Minister aware of the positions of strength that North Jutland has in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153720	I am very aware of the positions of strength of the North Jutland region and of the North Jutland business community there, just as I am fully aware that there are positions of strength in many other places in our country. And it is against that background that I think it is not fair at all and reflects the positions of strength if the majority, in other words the vast majority of the applications that came in, have a desire to place their headquarters in Copenhagen. This must and must be done better, and I will insist on that, which is why we are now taking that dialogue with the applicants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153750	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Bjerre and to Mr Bjerre. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. S 1285 to the Minister for Education and Research and presented by Mrs Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153759	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153806	Thank you. But then I would like to ask a leading question to a North Jyde from a North Jyde: Does the Minister believe that in the context of cluster consolidation in the field of business promotion, the headquarters of Maritime Business and Logistics should be located in the North Jylland Region, since this region has good conditions for working with the sector's strategic areas of action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153834	Thank you for the question. And thank you for another political force which is trying to pull out important, important business policy in our country to where there are positions of strength. I would very much like to thank and contribute to this focus. In relation to the individual and specific application, I cannot go down in it. Right now, there is a work to be done to evaluate applications. I haven't seen any of that yet. The only thing I relate to as a minister is the overall picture of the location of the headquarters, which looks to be extremely driven by a capital focus. I would very much like to have a better balance on that. What it means for the individual clusters and what it means when we dive into the quality of the individual applicants, it is far too early to say anything about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603153918	It is true that we have many forces in North Jutland, and the previous questioner mentioned this in connection with food and energy technology, etc. But exactly when you talk about maritime professions and logistics, we simply have the best prerequisites: it would be crazy to put it in the capital. After all, North Jutland is the only place where you have all the innovative, and we have the educational environment, and I know that the Minister knows about that too. So can I not get the Minister to say that there are some advantages in that exactly this area is being placed in North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154006	Now let us remember that the applications that have been made are applications submitted on behalf of operators from all over the country, and that also applies, as I understand it, to what the questioner refers here. There has been a joint request for some head offices. I think we should place them more geographically. We are now entering into that dialogue. However, in relation to the individual application, I do not have a condition at all to be able to go down in assessing the quality of the application it is far too early. There has only just been a deadline, and that means that the only thing I relate to on behalf of our country is the overall picture that it all looks far too wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154049	Well, we all agree on that, because that was the whole purpose of this business promotion, namely that it should be decentralized. Now it sounds on the water pipes as if it is being very concentrated around the capital. I am very pleased that the Minister says that she will really look into that. When we look at North Jutland, we have just within the maritime area simply the whole palette, and we are the only region that has the whole palette within the maritime area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154121	That was most of all a comment, and I can confirm that I know that there are incredibly strong North Jutland business environments. I think we should welcome this, just as we should welcome the fact that they also exist in many other parts of the country. This is basically also the foundation for why I think our cluster structure should reflect it, including in its location of headquarters. I think we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154143-2	I am glad that the Minister is so accommodating that it will be difficult to attack anything; but I would just like to have an indication that just when we talk about the maritime, North Jutland has the whole palette. And I can see and understand that it is difficult for the Minister to go into the individual, but there must of course be some criteria which, like they will come later, for where to place the different cluster headquarters around the country. There are some criteria for that there must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154220	That is the dialogue we must now have with those who have submitted an application, including the clustering to which the honourable Member refers. I believe that dialogue can be done, because representatives from all over the country have sent in joint applications. They have so wanted one location of their headquarters; I would like a dialogue about what they had been playing and whether we can achieve a better distribution through that route, which more reflects the fact that we actually have both knowledge institutions and business forces spread well across our country. Of course, we have to reflect that in this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154251	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research and to Mrs Lise Bech. The next question is to the Minister for Business. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1304, and that is what Mr. René Christensen. Anybody see him anywhere? It doesn't look like he's here. Is he right on the stairs? We breathe deep a few times. Welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154539	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154542	Thank you. First of all, I'm sorry that the minister had to wait. You don't have to. Does the Minister not consider it inappropriate for there to be no possibility of repaying payments from wage compensation schemes if an undertaking does not need the funds paid out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154556	Thank you for the question. I think, fairly speaking, that there was one question that fell out along the way, so the questioner must be quite legally excused. That's what can happen. I have a great deal of sympathy for companies that would like to pay back if they have been paid too much in compensation. The compensation schemes and aid packages have had to be adopted and also implemented at a very high rate, so that we have been able to secure companies and a great many jobs for more than 230,000 people as soon as possible. That is why there has also been a clear desire to make arrangements work as quickly as possible. And that is also why the government asked the Finance Committee for the possibility of immediate payment of the funds, which in fact resulted in nine out of ten companies being paid their wage compensation on 1 May. Now the Danish Business Administration is developing the administrative setup to enable companies to repay compensation paid. Any repayment of compensation will, of course, be made at the latest in connection with the follow-up of reporting to the Danish Business Authority, where companies will have to reimburse for actual repatriations and wage costs. Applications have been made to several schemes on an ongoing basis, and it has therefore been a priority to deal with them in order to be able to be paid out. The fact that it has not yet been possible to repay compensation on a voluntary basis is therefore solely due to priority being given to the payment of the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154732	Thank you for your answer. But we also do not know how much money has actually been paid out too much. I would just like to read here what I have received from a citizen: I am writing to you about the aid packages that have been adopted in connection with the whole corona situation. There is no doubt that it costs the Treasury a great deal of money and that the aid packages are very good. But I actually find myself in a situation where I would like to return the money, but that is not possible. When Mette closed Denmark, there were a lot of smart heads on TV who said that now the housing market would collapse. We also experienced a little week's time when the phones didn't call and as the owner of a small real estate store in Mid Jutland was good advice expensive. What wouldn't happen, and what would that mean for my little store? That's why I sent my two full-time employees home. I had doubts as to when to apply for the salary compensation, because I could not find on the Danish Business Authority's website a final deadline for this. My accountant told me to just look ahead, even though I didn't know when I got my employees back. It was easy to search, and only a few days passed, so the money was fine. But fortunately it went exactly the opposite to the smart ones, and we have never actually sold as many properties as we have in the last 2 months, which has meant that after 4-5 weeks I was lucky enough to have to call my staff back on a good story. Now I would prefer not to have money that is not mine, and I certainly do not want the state's money standing when there are some who need it more than I do. The only thing is that I cannot be allowed to return the money. I have spoken with the Danish Business Administration, who informed me that there is not yet a system that can handle this. I am aware that all the wage compensation systems have been set up at the speed of lightning, but I think it is just as important that we should be able to return the money as quickly as possible. The Business Administration informed me that I'm not the only one who called about this. So please a request from here: Make sure that the Danish Business Authority gets a system set up so that we can register when the employees have returned. Then I think there'll be a lot of money coming back to the Treasury. I kind of agree with the lady who sent me this e-mail. That is why I ask the Minister: how far are we really going to get those who do not need these aids to be able to return them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154941	It was right on the edge of the rules of the Rules of Procedure for the length of quotes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603154946	On the other hand, it was a good quote. In fact, I think that there were good elements in history here: that the housing market is actually very good, that the company in question has had to call back employees and that the company in question has actually received the money quickly. I think that is three good points of impact. Now we are there in the processing of applications that we can start making the setup that can accept refunds again, and I expect that the possibility of repaying the money will open within a few weeks. So we're aware of this. We have just given priority to making the money work quickly, and now we are starting to be able to allow for repayment within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155029	The Danish People's Party has from day one had a very big focus on the fact that it was the right people who got the money and that we should be careful that this was not fraudulent. And, of course, we have also jointly helped to set up rules to ensure that if you cheat with it, the hammer falls, and it falls really hard. So thank you for the cooperation that has been about it. But what's in this is kind of close to it: those who have the opportunity to send money back can be allowed to do it as quickly as possible so that they don't just lie and burn in their pockets and you can look at them. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister again: should we then expect that within a few weeks you can see on the Danish Business Authority's website how to pay the money back?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155104	I would also like to start by signing for the cooperation. I can fully confirm that the Danish People's Party has not only been determined to make the money work quickly, but also that it was for the right people and that those who wanted to abuse the arrangements should of course not have access to it. So just thank you for your cooperation. The Danish Business Administration is very well in the process of getting this module up and running. In a few weeks' time it will be clear, and I can of course make it clear today that it will also be withdrawn by the Danish Business Administration when it is clear that it will be possible to start paying back. For everyone, of course, is interested in the fact that it is only the money that needs to be spent on specific emergency aid. Of course, all the excess has to be returned, and I believe that both companies and we politicians are looking at that the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155146	I would just like to sign for the answer, and then, of course, I will keep an eye on whether what the Minister is standing here and saying in the Chamber today will also become a reality. Because I actually believe that this image from such a real estate agent is fairly accurate for the majority of companies that have sought the aid packages. I think a lot of people have done it a little ahead of us to make sure that you also became a part of it. Was it a pool that was big enough? There was a lot of uncertainty back then. As the mailwriter also writes here, one was recommended: Search rather to be safe. And that's why I think there's a lot of money out there. So we will follow up on what the Minister has said here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155223	I will only look forward to that. And then I just want to support the fact that it is being informed when the opportunity opens up. I do not know if that is the main picture that people have received too much money, but I can confirm that there are several companies that have turned to be able to pay back money. And then that opportunity opens up within a few weeks. On the other hand, there have also been very, very many companies that have benefited from the fact that we have given priority to getting the money really quickly out to a start. So we have taken things in that order, and I think that in the end has been the smartest thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155253	Thank you to the Minister for Business and to Mr. René Christensen. The next minister to be asked questions is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. And it is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party who is asking questions no. S 1315.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155308	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155311	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the security situation in parts of Syria has been so good since December 2019 that in several cases refugee status is no longer granted to asylum seekers from there and that more Syrians appear to be already voluntarily returning, and will the Minister, following the re-establishment of the international community following the corona crisis, have a special focus on the repatriation of Syrian refugees who, with their return to Syria, can contribute further to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Syrian society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155345	First of all, I am pleased that the security situation in Syria is better. Since December, six months ago, the Refugee Council has taken a position on a number of cases involving persons from the Damascus region in Syria. And in these cases it has been the opinion of the Refugee Board that the general conditions in Damascus have changed and can no longer in themselves lead to asylum-rights protection, and there is, of course, reason to be happy about that. But that does not mean that all the people who come from Damascus or Syria can now return. People from Damascus may still be at individual risk of persecution and Damascus is still the only area in Syria where the Refugee Board has considered that the general security situation makes it possible to return to the area. As the questioner himself points out, the decision has made it relevant to assess how we stand in relation to the deployment of Syrians who are no longer legally resident. Our position is that refugees must, as a starting point, return home when conditions in the country allow, and this also applies, of course, to Syrian citizens. That is why, of course, I find it very gratifying that Syrians are already going home voluntarily; last year about 100 Syrian citizens have returned to Syria. The authorities will also continue to assist Syrians without legal residence in planning voluntary departures to Syria, and then the Danish authorities will be able to use as a starting point the so-called incentive measures for those foreigners without legal residence who do not initially leave voluntarily. This means, among other things, that foreigners may be subject to residence and reporting obligations. If there were to be Syrians without legal residence who do not leave voluntarily, there are now some very special circumstances with regard to Syria because, for foreign policy reasons, so far there are no forced broadcasts to Syria. The resolution is based on an analysis and a political line that we share with our closest allies in Europe, among others. Germany, France, Great Britain, and the United States. And we are in dialogue with our allies, and we are working hard to resume or launch the forced broadcasts to Syria, and I hope we can, of course, get started on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155552	Thank you for your answer. The heart of the question was, of course, whether to focus specifically on the repatriation of Syrian refugees, and I think the answer was no. I think that is a pity, because we now have this decision from the Refugee Board that conditions in the Damascus area themselves cannot justify asylum, and it should of course be open to reviewing all residence permits for resident Syrians and having them returned, which can be sent back now and which come from those areas where there are no very special things that make them particularly persecuted so that they can be sent back immediately. And that's not what I heard in the answer, and I think that's too bad. What I hear in the answer is just a general statement that you are working on matters. At the same time, however, we have also got the new rules that people can stay here if they have work. So that means that you will be able to see Syrian refugees who do not have a special need for protection coming from Damascus and who will be able to stay in Denmark because they have work. I think that is really sad and too bad. In addition, this is where you don't want to force because you don't want to cooperate with Assad's regime, which is really a strange decision. For I guess Assad is a dictator of an unpleasant nature that we don't want in Denmark, but there are a lot of them around the world. Will this mean that we cannot send out to countries where there are unpleasant forms of government or perhaps unpleasant parties in power? I believe this is an unsustainable way of pursuing refugee policy. So all in all, I think it was a rather unfortunate answer to be given here. So there will be no focus on the repatriation of Syrian refugees in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155810	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155811	Yes, we would like that, both when we refuse to extend the residence permits, because the general conditions are of a nature where there is no need for protection, and also if we include residence permits, which should actually have run somewhat longer. Both when we involve them and when we refuse to extend them, it is of course important that some come from the area of Syria where the Refugee Board has now considered that there is at least no basis for protection under the law of asylum in relation to the general conditions. To conclude, we have no anguish to send to states that are villains; we are very happy to send to Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and elsewhere. It is because there is a foreign policy line on which we agree in the West not to cooperate with the Assad regime, and that is the alliance we very much do not want to break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155857	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155857-2	I think this should be considered, because there are a great many Syrian refugees in Western Europe. That's a completely wrong way to go about it. But it is also a wrong way of doing so that one will refuse to extend residence permits only, but that one will not take any measures to get people to travel, other than to motivate them. But that is not enough, because in practice people can stay here as long as they want. This is not a sensible way of conducting politics, and it is not a maintenance of the paradigm shift, as has been promised before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603155937	We stand by what is called the paradigm shift, so that refugees are here temporarily. To the extent that Syrian refugees have their residence permit withdrawn and take up their expulsion position, they must also return home without any doubt. If they don't, they eventually end up in an exit center, and then they could be covered by all this residence and reporting obligations. And, as I also mentioned in my speech, there will also be the possibility of detention of people on top of what is called Ellebæk, in northern Zealand, if, for example, we are able to do so. can see an opportunity to send people. The special situation surrounding Syria is just that we will not break the alliance with the rest of the West and start working with Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160017	But when that is the case, it is not true that there is a focus on repatriations. Then it is wrong to say so because you do not want to do anything concrete about it. So I think it is becoming more and more Comic Ali-like to say that we are maintaining the paradigm shift, that is to say, the return policy, while at the same time we are not going to use forced broadcasts, and we are going to let people who are in employment become I am who are not checked is long-term disease here. That's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160056	We'd like to use forced broadcasts. Right now, because of corona, there are not so many planes in the air, but otherwise, they're gonna be running, and they're gonna be driving, and we're gonna be looking forward to getting started again. We have no anguish to send people by force, because if that tool is not in the toolbox, no one will agree to go home voluntarily. So it is absolutely crucial that we can send home with coercion. There is just one country with which we have problems right now because we do not want to start cooperation with the Assad regime. And we think it would be unreasonable for Denmark, as the only Western country, to start going alone there and indirectly to start recognising the regime that is currently in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160133	Thank you, Minister. The question has been answered. The next question under the agenda is Question 24, and it is a question to the Minister for Employment, and this has been asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160145	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160148	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that a company has had to dismiss 200 employees because of the Minister's illegal management of the wage compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160204	Thank you for the question. Let me start by making something clear: there is no illegal management. The Danish Business Administration has always managed after the announcement, and if anyone should have refrained from applying for compensation, they can still apply until 30 June without being covered by the full principle of neutrality. The fact that a company has dismissed employees before entering the compensation scheme is not unusual, just as the company to which I assume the questioner refers may subsequently have applied for and received compensation for wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160242	Thank you for your answer. I'm surprised, I have to say. If you dig a tiny bit in this case, it is actually clear that there is no legal basis whatsoever for exercising the discrimination which the Minister, among other things, has. In my opinion, through statements made to the public, they have been guilty of. If we look at the tripartite agreement, we see in the document adopted by a unanimous majority in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee the decree in which the Minister of Industry gave effect to the rules, we will find that there is no basis for the discrimination between companies advocated by the Minister, namely that, in the event of a labour dispute, we were not entitled to apply for compensation for wages. So I am somewhat surprised that the Minister is just standing so high in the hat and saying that it is no problem when one knows very well that there is at least one company that has made no less than 200 employees redundant, precisely because the company was made aware that it was not entitled to be covered by the wage compensation schemes. At the same time, I have had the Minister in consultation with the Parliamentary Employment Committee, where the Minister has explained to me that in the pile where the company I am talking about was located, there were nine other companies in the Danish Business Administration. However, the Minister has also replied to me in writing that, overall, 632 companies are involved in a labour dispute and therefore, according to the Minister, at least of the information provided by the Minister to the Folketing, were not entitled to benefit from the wage compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160449	There is a general principle that the state is neutral in conflicts at work, because pay and working conditions are a matter for the social partners. The principle means, among other things, that the State does not take a position in conflict and thus does not initiate activities which may benefit either party and are implemented in a number of laws in the Ministry's territory. Specifically in relation to the wage compensation scheme, the Ministry of Employment has considered that companies subject to conflict as a consequence of the principle of neutrality cannot receive full compensation from the scheme. However, it only affects the specific job categories of the company involved in the conflict and that assessment has been shared with the social partners in the interpretation of the tripartite agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160538	Thank you, Minister. Then it's the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160539	But that is precisely the last thing the Minister has mentioned, for which there has been no legal basis, and that is why the Minister has acted illegally, when the Minister has replied to the Folketing, that one was not entitled to pay compensation if one was involved in a labour dispute, and the Minister has also said so in public. I should just like to point out here that the Left has agreed to participate in the introduction of wage compensation schemes, and we have done so in order to keep our hands on Danish jobs, so that employees in the companies should not be dismissed because of the covid-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160621	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160622	And, of course, we in the government would like to continue to thank the Left for having contributed to this, because we share that ambition. Specifically, in relation to the interpretation of the tripartite agreement, I would like to say that this is what I have explained in a note of 23 March, and the expected application of the principle is also taken into account in my reply to Question No. 26 to the bill that made it possible to push vacation in addition to it. However, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Employment have become aware that the principle of neutrality has not been put into effect in the notice on the compensation scheme issued, which has also been explained by the Minister of Industry and I in question. This has now been corrected, and it is only for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160706	Then there's access to a co-questioner. It's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, who has 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160710	Thank you for that and thank you for the answers that have come so far. Just to understand it quite correctly: I understand that no one has applied for compensation for wages which may have been rejected, given that they had been affected by conflict, in relation to the principle of neutrality. That's what the minister said. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160739	This is the information we have at least received from the Danish Business Administration. There are no companies which have been refused compensation if they otherwise comply with the rules governing the scheme, including the payment of wages by the company to the employees concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160755	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160755-2	Then I think it has to be said that the Minister has unfortunately again been unable to provide adequate information here in the Folketing. Because there are examples that companies have actually received the opposite answer from the Danish Business Administration, and that is why it is quite serious if the Danish Business Administration, if you may say so, has administered a scheme which has not been authorised and for which there has been no legislative support, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160826	So, in relation to the answer I give and the note of 23 March and the one subsequent reply to the Folketing at the end of March, where, as an interpretation of the tripartite agreement, we say that the principle of neutrality must apply, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Employment have found that this has not been properly implemented in the notice. It is also for this reason that the reply I have sent to the questioner and the co-questioner states that it is actually possible to look all the way up to 30 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160902	Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for a final round of 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160905	It is a pity that the Minister is standing here and using his reply time to draw my attention to something which I actually pointed out to the Minister. For there was no legal basis whatsoever for the administration of the Tripartite Agreement by the Minister. And the fact that the Minister was brought to the attention was due to the fact that I put questions to the Minister, to whom the Minister could not reply. Now the Minister is standing here saying that it has become aware of it. Yes, sir. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). But can the Minister please explain to me where the legal basis in the file is to amend the notice so that what the Minister meant on 23 March will actually be legal now? Where is the legal basis for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603160959	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161001	I believe, first of all, that it is only important that we agree on the premise. In other words, it has been the task of the Ministry of Employment and of me, together with the social partners, as is always the case, to interpret subsequently all the doubts that arise between the parties as to how the tripartite agreement is to be understood. There have been many questions along the way. One of them has been on the principle of neutrality, and another has been on whether companies that fire before entering the scheme still have to be covered by the scheme. A quite third question has been whether it is even possible to rotate employees around the scheme. And there have been plenty of the kind of issues that we have had to resolve all the way through, including the principle of neutrality. This has not been properly translated into the notice, and I find this regrettable, and that is also why there are no companies with this in hand that can be denied wage compensation backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161055	Thank you for answering the question. The next question to the Minister for Employment has been asked by Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen with enquirer Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161103	Here you go, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161105	Thank you. We'll stay on the same street, if you say so. The question is: What is the Minister's position on the misleading information given by the Minister to the Danish Parliament in the "Notat' salary compensation and conflict dated 23 March 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161122	Thank you for the question. I am pleased to have the opportunity to respond to the accusations of misdirection of the Folketing. I am rather incomprehensible about the way in which I should have misled the Folketing in relation to how I see the principle of neutrality applied in relation to compensation for wages. The note, which asks, refers to the fact that the Ministry clearly states that the state is neutral in conflicts. This is an objective principle which has also been applied in a number of areas of employment law, based on the fact that wages and working conditions are a matter for the social partners. Specifically, in the context of the implementation of the tripartite agreement on compensation for wages, the Ministry of Employment has considered that companies subject to conflict as a consequence of the principle of neutrality cannot receive full compensation from the scheme. In concrete terms, these are the categories of posts covered by the conflict. This assessment has also been shared with the social partners. This is therefore also the basis of my reply to question 26 of Bill 141 which was submitted to the Folketing on 23 March 2020 and is further explained in the note of 23 March to which the authors refer. However, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Employment have become aware that the principle of neutrality has not been implemented as intended in the Order on the Compensation Scheme issued by the Minister for Labour and I have explained in reply 258 to the Employment Committee. This has now been corrected in the future. Companies which have not yet applied may still be able to apply for compensation. I would like to conclude by emphasising that no one has been prevented from applying for compensation for wages, just as no companies have been denied compensation for wages if, moreover, they comply with the rules implementing the scheme, including paying salaries to the employees concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161312	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161313	Thank you. I think it is important to be careful to say that no company has been refused compensation when we had the discussion before. I would then be quite careful, as a minister, to go down that road, but the Minister himself estimates that. First of all, it is important to say that it is not the social partners who make legislation in Denmark, after all, that is, it is with all due respect the Folketing. Nor is it the case that the Minister can rule by decree. This requires that there are 90 seats to back up or that there are at least 90 seats that do not mean the opposite. So I guess there are two things that stand up. First of all, there is the question of principle on which it is also concerned, namely: where is the legal basis, where is the suspension of the principle of neutrality? So, when you see the act that went through the Financial Committee, where exactly is it said that this is where you want to do it? That is the first question. The second question is: what will be done in the event that there are companies which have been refused their application for compensation because the notice has now been applied in error but which should have had it? That is not the announcement that the Minister would have wished to have made, but it has been. Will compensation be paid to companies that have fired employees because they have been informed that they could not receive compensation for wages because they have administered according to what will apply if the government gets its way after 30 June?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161444	Well, I would like to start by saying, also because the questioner now mentions it again, that I have been informed that there are no companies that should have been denied wage compensation with suspension in the principle of neutrality. Of course, we will go back and check on that, even when the questioner once again says that he has a knowledge or a presumption that someone might have stayed. Of course, we'll check that out. The second question raised by the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161517	It's gonna be in the next round since the time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161518	So why don't we just pass on the floor? I am not the rapporteur as such. I'm just a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161526	It's okay. But the questioner asks what kind of legal basis that would then be forward-looking, which has not been there backwards. The authorisation clause granted to the Minister of Industry in the Act on Compensation for Earnings provides very clear powers to lay down rules on, inter alia: criteria and conditions for compensation for wages and beneficiaries. It has therefore been clear to the Committee on Budgets, when the document was adopted, that administrative rules would be laid down on criteria, conditions and beneficiaries. I have no reason to believe anything other than that the authority given to the Minister for Industry by the Finance Committee has, of course, been given in accordance with the guidelines which apply to textual notes. These are not burdensome rules. The wage compensation scheme is a favourable subsidy scheme which allows companies to apply for compensation in accordance with the framework laid down in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161620	This gives me access to the co-questioner. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, a round of 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161624	I would like to follow up on the answer here, because it is the case that one legislates through an act with annotation giving an authorisation to the Minister of Industry, who issues an order first an order that the Minister did not agree with the contents of, and now a new decree is made. Can the Minister himself not hear that we are out on a very, very thin basis? It is also the case that, if you legislate with retroactive effect, as is the case here, it must be with a favourable legal act, and it will certainly not be here, because the Minister has already replied to me in the past that there are 632 companies which are involved in a labour dispute and would therefore be potential beneficiaries of wage compensation in that category. These are the companies that the Minister is going to take away from the possibility of being part of the wage compensation schemes in the future, and that is, regardless of how you turn it and turn it, legislation with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161732	I do not agree that this has the character of retroactive legislation. What has been the case is that it has been the view of the Ministry of Employment that the principle of neutrality also applied to the tripartite agreement and, therefore, to the wage compensation scheme, which takes the view that the State is neutral in conflict, just as we have provided in legislation that it is not possible to pay the daily allowance to employees who are in conflict and that a large number of other criteria have been laid down for companies to have access to the wage compensation scheme, including the most important thing that you should not fire your employees while you are in the wage compensation scheme. I do not agree that this is legislation with retroactive effect. On the contrary, it has been made clear that if anyone has refrained from applying for compensation for wages, they can still go away until 30 June without being covered by the full principle of neutrality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161828	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161829	But listen, we're really, really out on a thin basis. At no time, apart from the erroneous information provided by the Minister to the Folketing, has there been any discussion at all as to whether the principle of neutrality should apply to wage compensation schemes. Then the Minister suddenly realizes that either you have forgotten it or you have been reminded of it by some of the friends in the trade union movement that perhaps there was something that you had not quite remembered and vupti then you think you have the basis, the authority to be able to issue such a far-reaching decree as a replacement for a previously drawn up decree, which was indeed misinterpreted. Can the Minister himself not hear that it is a very, very thin basis on which to stand as a minister? This is about people of flesh and blood who have lost their jobs because the Minister has given false information to the Folketing, partly to the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161933	Thank you! Speaking time has ended. It's the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603161935	I have to say again to the questioner: I have not given incorrect information to the Folketing. I've answered one question. I have sent a note on how the principle of neutrality should be understood in relation to the tripartite agreement. I have then said that this principle has not been implemented in the notice, and that is also why the Minister for Industry has issued a decree enabling everyone to apply for compensation until 30 June without being subject to the full principle of neutrality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162010	Then it's the main questioner, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162015	Thank you. After all, we have ample opportunity to pursue this fundamental and also very interesting question, because we have asked both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Industry to come into consultation. But there is one thing that I think deserves to be emphasized again, even though it is of a more technical nature, and that is the whole chain of explanations that you can do it in the third or fourth row because there was once one act and everything else. But it is the case that the Committee on Finance has agreed on a form of work, and here I would just like to quote: when the legislation is done in connection with an act, there are particular legal certainty issues to be taken into account. Some of the concerns about making adjustments in a text note are set out in the report on the way the Finance Committee works, which is widely supported by the parties in the Folketing. Both point 5.2 and, in particular, point 6.3.4, it is proposed that material legislation should be non-burdened, and that is exactly what will apply after 30 June if the Minister and the Government issue this decree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162124	But there is, if necessary, and now we are at the heart of it, a disagreement and a disagreement on the legal interpretation of it, because we find it difficult to see that these are burdensome rules. The wage compensation scheme is a favourable subsidy scheme which allows companies to apply for compensation in accordance with the framework laid down in the scheme. No one is imposing any burdens on any company, but criteria are laid down as to the conditions under which subsidies and compensation may be granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162158	Thank you to the Minister for Employment for answering the questions. Thank you to the authors. The next question on the agenda is Question 26, and it is a question for the Minister for the Environment who is in the Chamber. The Minister for the Environment is present and the questioner is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162215	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162219	Thank you. This is about oxygen loss in Lillebælt. A report from Aarhus University last year concluded that in August and September 2018 and 2019 there was the worst oxygen loss in the southern Lillebælt, the southern Funen Archipelago and in the fjords of South Jutland. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that we reduce the amount of oxygen loss in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162252	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that I share the questioner's concern about our aquatic environment, and these oxygen loss reports last year showed precisely that the oxygen loss in 2019 was unusually large and prolonged. The challenges of oxygen depletion also underline the need to reduce nitrogen and phosphorus emissions in order to improve the aquatic environment. It will not be possible to completely remove oxygen losses from the seas because they are also affected by wind and weather, but we can and we must reduce the pressures on our marine environment and thus reduce the risk of widespread oxygen loss in the future. We know that nitrogen emissions have not fallen as expected. That's what we're dealing with. That is why the government also concluded an agreement with the support parties in the autumn, including: And the Radical Left, and the alternative, to increase efforts to reduce nitrogen by 1,150 tonnes this year. In connection with the upcoming river basin management plans for 2021-2027, we will also re-evaluate the effort needed to achieve good status in our coastal waters. The river basin management plans will describe the efforts needed to improve the state of the various waters. This also applies to the areas mentioned: the southern Lillebælt, the South Funen Archipelago and the fjords of South Jutland. It is also clear that the whole debate on waste water is, of course, also part of those water plans, in which we must also continue the work that is under way. And for the same reason the Danish EPA also monitors the development of oxygen losses, and I myself have been with them to see the work they do, because it is very important and a priority that I believe the questioner's party and the government share fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162440	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162442	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister is focusing on this area, but the situation is quite and very serious in Lillebælt, especially in the southern part of Lillebælt. The situation is, of course, that nitrogen pollution at national level has halved since the 1990s, but is still serious and catastrophic in the very southern part of Lillebælt, where there are some very extraordinary and violent problems. This is what is being pointed out in a report from Aarhus and Aalborg universities. There is so much poison, there is so much sulphur, that there is actually dead there is such a whole duvet in the bottom of the sea and it is a really serious situation. After all, the requirements for improving the aquatic environment in Denmark came from the EU in 2000. The first deadline was in 2009, which was extended to 2015, then to 2021, and now again to 2027. Nevertheless, the previous government chose to inform the Commission that, as I said, it was unrealistic to achieve the objectives of a satisfactory water status in 2027. We have an aquatic environment in the southern Lillebælt • Aabenraa Fjord, Flensburg Fjord • where there has long been such a low level of oxygen that sulphur burns are released so that the fish die. If you look at the cards that have been made now, of course this is one that the Minister will certainly know, then there may be no reason to show that even in November, when the situation should be in order, it is extraordinary. So when does the current minister intend to have a good environmental status again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162625	Thank you for that follow-up question. I was at a conference myself • Help Lillebælt • This was held here in February, where you also said, across the interests that are local, that it is simply not possible, we need to do something more for our marine environment. I share that concern too. And that is also why I am pleased that we have already taken a step together with the Radical Left from 2020 towards reducing nitrogen emissions to our aquatic environment, which we know is one of the important pressures in creating oxygen loss in our marine environment. However, I think it is also important to say that, in relation to the Water Framework Directive, we are also in a different position now, with the majority we have, in relation to the previous government, because we have committed ourselves to meeting the water framework directive, which will end in 2027, as the questioner said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162716	Thank you. Exactly! For it is also clear from the baseline analysis for river basin management plans 2021-2027 from the Ministry of the Environment that there has been no clear development at national level in the decline of nitrogen in recent years and that there is no development for phosphorus from 2000 onwards. So I am very pleased that the Minister is aware that this is precisely a point that is absolutely crucial for us in our understanding paper. What is the Minister thinking about this and will the Minister change the situation as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162744	Fortunately, I welcome the fact that we are now on a green mandate, not only as a government, but also as a majority in the Danish Parliament, in contrast to the previous government, which, with the agricultural package, pushed an environmental bill ahead of it, knowing that both the Social Democrats, but also the Radical Left and others, were shouting at gunpoint and saying: watch out for our aquatic environment; be careful with the environmental bill that comes from making the agricultural package. But anyway, you drove on, which means that today we're dealing with this big task. I have great hopes that this is a task that we will have to solve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162822-2	Thank you. This then leads me to ask what methods the Minister will use to ensure that we have reduced the emissions of nutrients to Lillebælt and the fjords, so that we can restore a good environmental state. I am thinking not only of cooperation to find solutions, but also of concrete solutions. Has the Minister given any thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162843	Yes, it is clear that we need different tools to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. In the first place, we have set in motion some of the analyses and preparatory work that the questioner has also mentioned, because the new water plans must be ready at the beginning of the new year. In other words, we are in the process of finalising the professional basis. And then we have to meet as parties and talk about how we can actually make the concrete efforts, and that will be many things that we need to get hold of. Therefore, right now local water councils are also sitting around all over Denmark, looking at what it is for some bets that are needed, for example. in watercourses. After all, we are looking at what agriculture, for example, has to deliver and what has to be delivered from the waste water efforts in relation to achieving the goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162925	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Nils Sjøberg. The question has been answered. The next question is also to the Minister for the Environment, and that is what Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162934	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603162936	Thank you, Mr President. What considerations does the Minister consider that in the City of Copenhagen more than 35 billion litres of untreated waste water have been discharged in Øresund from 2014 to 2018, and what initiatives will the Minister take to prevent waste water from being discharged to the detriment of the environment and biodiversity in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163007	First of all, I am glad that the Left is also in favour of this being an important agenda, in other words that we are better looking after our aquatic environment. Because I believe that we emit far too much waste water during overflows in Denmark, and as the previous question also showed, our aquatic environment is pressed by far too many nutrients, and we are still far from meeting the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, so we must do better. I have launched a number of projects to provide better data on overflows so that municipalities can better reduce those overflows. In concrete terms, the municipalities are now obliged in the legislation to report the data on waste water. This means that we have updated the database on which the municipalities must report, which is of course the whole basis, so that we can also look politically at which municipalities it is that have major problems here and where it is that has to be done. Then I have launched a study to reduce the uncertainty compared to data on overflows through better models and measurements. And we have also initiated new, concrete measurements in watercourses in relation to the problem of waste water and also inspections during overflows. So a number of things have been set in motion. It is also important to say that climate adaptation and overflow are two sides of the same coin. It's all about controlling the water when there's a lot of water coming down from above. Therefore, it is also an important step that the government and parties behind the Water Sector Act recently decided to give waste water companies better conditions to finance climate adjustment projects, so that when a lot of water comes down from above, you can park the water instead of seeing the overflows, as the questioner says. I'm gonna ask. Then there are also the water plans, which are important in this, where we need to establish measures to reduce nitrogen emissions to our coastal waters, and this is both waste water and agriculture. So I very much hope that the Left will be constructively involved in the discussions we are going to have, both in relation to a concrete climate adjustment plan in Denmark and in relation to the future water plans, which will have to be completed at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163221	Thank you for your answer, and thank you for the positive approach that I can promise the Left will also have in this context. We have that in every negotiation. I myself have been the mayor, and I can say that some of what I am puzzled about is that there has not been a dialogue on this discharge. Now we have heard that there were plans to deduce even more, and so there are still plans from the City of Copenhagen to discharge even more waste water in Øresund, and I think it might be a little puzzled that there has not been a dialogue between the Minister and the mayor concerned. I remember having been called at that time by a minister who asked whether or not one could do so, and one listens a lot to what a minister says. I must also say that I am a little puzzled by the fact that it was only after there were many interest groups, environmental organisations and citizens who went into this matter that something actually happened. Actually, I think it should be a nobrainer. I am not only to blame the Minister for this, because of course it must also be on the table of the local mayor. Then I have a question to the Minister about the fact that in 2025 the City of Copenhagen would like to be the world's first CO2 2 But I am tempted to ask the Minister if the Minister does not find it paradoxical that the City of Copenhagen was prepared to discharge sewage equivalent to 200 swimming pools in Øresund, when the city looks up to be climate neutral by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163426	I would like to make it very clear on the specific case of the City of Copenhagen's emissions plans that my concern was also on both our marine environment and on bathing water quality. I first heard about the case when it was brought in the media, that is. On Fridays, and on Saturdays, I was calling for the actual discharge plans to be stopped. But it is also important to say that it was a municipal decision and not a decision that I, as a minister, could take, but that does not change the fact that I can take a position on it. At the same time, I would like to welcome the fact that the City of Copenhagen has actually now said that these plans are now completely shot to the corner. That's what the mayor said yesterday. I think that's pretty important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163512	I would now like to be a little doubtful, because if you look at what decision has been taken, it is not a decision that this should not happen. It is just a decision to shoot it to the corner, as far as I can see. Maybe the minister knows more, and then I'll hear about it. The Øresund area is precisely bathing water, the environment and biodiversity. We have been famous for being able to swim in the harbor and many other things, and tourism is becoming a bigger and bigger source of income for us. So how do you see it when this is just a postponement? I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister will do to permanently stop the discharge of waste water into Øresund and not just let the City of Copenhagen's technical and environmental management postpone the discharge until later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163611	First of all, in relation to this, whether it has been shot to the corner, I would like to say that the announcement from the City of Copenhagen was precisely that you didn't shoot out in the autumn. It is the latest announcement that the concrete plans have been completely stopped, and that is what I was just commenting on. It's just so there's clarity about it. Then it is true that the City of Copenhagen must also deliver, in relation to the need for less waste water in our marine environment, and I am really glad that a great many citizens, organisations and also parties have responded to this, because we can see that if we are to deliver better quality in relation to our aquatic environment, we must do something, both at waste water, but also at the other sources, among others. I hope that the Left is equally determined to do something, not only in relation to the waste water part, but also in relation to agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163659	Thank you, we are, 100%. My good colleague Jacob Jensen said it so precisely in Berlingske last week: "The exit point must be that we should not let sewage uncleaned into our nature, but it is not enough to say that the municipalities must take care of it. We need to have a comprehensive overview of this. The problem is that we do not have an overall view. It happens in many places and it is impossible to control. I would just like to call on the Minister to address this, and that is why I would like to end by asking the Minister what the Minister will take of national initiatives to ensure the Danish environment and biodiversity against waste water discharges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163738	How long does the questioner have? 'Cause I can talk about that for a long time. I also think it is important to say that it is not just one tool that we need to get to if we are to solve this huge task, which is actually to create a good aquatic environment in our coastal waters. With regard to the oxygen loss we mentioned before, but of course also the Øresund region and the quality of the sea that needs to be there, we need to get hold of many things. And that applies, among other things. overflows, where we are in the process of data, and where I have also said very clearly: let us talk as parties, even when we find out the specific case from the City of Copenhagen, about what it takes to tighten up this. We also need to be honest about the fact that waste water efforts are one thing, and we need to do something about that, but it also requires that there are several parties that would like to make an effort in relation to agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163825	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Thank you to the questioner. There are no more questions for the Minister for the Environment. On the other hand, there are a few questions for the Minister of Culture. And the first question to the Minister for Culture has been asked by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163840	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163847	Thank you. Will the Minister, on behalf of the cultural institutions, launch an audience survey to provide an answer to how citizens will be able to take advantage of cultural opportunities once they can be fully reopened and at the same time show what measures and steps they can take out there to make citizens even more comfortable by using cultural opportunities again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603163913	Thank you very much. And thank you for the question. I and the government are very aware that many of the cultural institutions will find themselves in a new reality even after the reopening, because the covid-19 has both changed the habits of the audience and also imposed restrictions on their activities, at least for a period of time. Under normal circumstances, it is the institutions and organisations of cultural life which themselves carry out user surveys of their audiences. I also believe that there are a number of those who do so and who regularly send their conclusions to us, which I share as quickly as I can, with the rapporteurs. However, I would also like to refer the questioner to the report published by the Ministry of Finance on 28 April, entitled "Reopening phase 2: Economic priorities'. In any case, I believe that part of what the honourable Member wishes to have clarified is well described in this report. The report shows that cultural and leisure activities are hit economically hard compared with other sectors because of the covid-19, among other things. due to the cancellation of major events and closure, but also that parts of cultural and leisure life will be financially challenged in the future. It appears from the report that it is uncertain whether the removal of restrictions alone could bring production back to a normal level of activity, and that even without restrictions there may be a tendency for consumer restraint, especially among industries with predominantly indoor activities or high assembly density. This also extends into the period following the end of the aid packages, which is why I am also pleased that the Minister for Finance has called for discussions on the adjustments that may be needed and needed after the end of the aid packages. Specifically, what measures and steps the institutions themselves can take to make citizens more secure, we have tried to address the guidelines drawn up with the actors themselves and what can be said about the quality stamp of the Danish Health Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164118	It is the case that I have seen a study from the United States which indicates that 40%. do not want to return to cultural life again until a vaccine has been found. In Norway, it can be seen that up to a third of the income is going to disappear because there is a very large percentage of the population who are not yet comfortable in participating in cultural activities. So that's why I think it makes a great deal of sense to look at what the audience's thoughts are about this. What do the citizens of Denmark actually say about this, since cultural offers have been reopened? What are the cultural institutions that can look into? What kind of future are they looking into? Because there is no doubt, as the Minister for Culture said so well, that we will have challenges for many years to come. That is why it is also important that we should not be blindfolded, but that we should have an open view of what is going to happen. And that is why I call on the Minister to launch this study, so that we can know a little more about the situation with regard to the offers made by the various cultural institutions. Does the Minister recognise that this could be a really beneficial tool for us in making the right political decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164232	Thank you very much. Yes, I fully acknowledge that. But the questioner's party and the government have together made a bill of finance, which among other things. cutting down on consultancy costs, and we therefore agree that this is a good way to go. So if I am going to initiate it, I will raise it with the rapporteurs, and I can do that at the request of the author of the question here today, and then ask whether we should give priority to some of the funds, for example. from the cultural act to the launching of such a consultancy study. What I just think is important, too, is that there are already quite a lot of studies to support what the Norwegian study to which the questioner refers says, namely that the behaviour of the public will have changed for a long time to come and that the financial consequences have actually already been assessed by the Ministry of Finance itself. And the negotiations on what can be done about this on the part of the Danish Parliament cannot wait for such an audience survey. And I think it's important that we all remember that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164332	Well, I am glad that the Minister for Culture recognises that we can at least discuss whether we should allocate some funds for this together. For one thing is what we can look into and assume, but another is what we can know a little more precisely in relation to what the citizens think and what they actually dare to move into. But it is also just as important for the cultural offers out there, which do not have a large, chrome-plated view, but which only have their own budget years to look into, that they know exactly what it is that is needed for citizens to choose to use their cultural offerings again, and can adapt to it and be creative in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164409	It is in fact my impression that the cultural institutions themselves are doing these studies, including here under the Corona, and that they also have a great deal of insight into how they can change. Together with the Danish Arts Foundation and a number of non-profit foundations, we have also entered into this collaboration called "Together about the art" in the coronatiden, where we are just giving the opportunity for cultural institutions and artists to offer how to create culture under the restrictions and give the audience the security they need in this particular time. We still have to look at that properly. But it's just to say that there are some things going on. What I hear a lot of people are asking is: what happens when the aid packages expire? And those negotiations will therefore be in the Ministry of Finance as early as next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164454	The questioner for a last round of 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164455	Well, I am delighted that the Minister for Culture also has a look at what is happening in a few moments, because one thing is the aid packages and the expiry of the aid packages, and I also know that a lot of cultural institutions are having difficulty understanding how they can be helped by them right now, but another is the long-term vision, in terms of how we can carry culture properly through this, so that we do not spend our money foolishly, that we do not make stupid political decisions, but also that we make sure that we do not lose some of the very many good and wide-ranging offers we have out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164529	I totally agree. I hope that we can have a good discussion in the rapporteur's circle, which takes into account those parts of the cultural sector that themselves carry out their own studies and that we remember to use the studies that we already have. And then we have to look at the means at our disposal in terms of how large and comprehensive a study we think may be needed. But I would also just like to keep this in mind... Same about the art... where culture itself offers an idea of how they can transform themselves under these restrictions. So I look forward to working together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164602	Thank you to the questioner. Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Today's last question is also addressed to the Minister of Culture in singing great form, presumably from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164614	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164616	Thank you, President. Will the Minister ensure that the DR also brings morning songs on TV after the corona crisis is over?
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164625	I am grateful for the question, which I take as an indication that the questioner, like me, has found new ways of bringing the people together where some of the good old virtues have been taken up as a common song. I think there may be a lot of people who wouldn't have wagered a lot of money when it started, how popular it actually has become, but it's gotten furiously popular • 260,000 Danes singing on average with in April. In this way, I think that the coronate has been an occasion for the DR to bring the population together with a number of very strong public service programmes. Therefore, I was also pleased that the DR chose to extend the common song right up to St. John's. Now it is no secret that the author's party and the government have a little different views on how much we, as politicians, can dictate what DR should send, but I can tell you that I have asked the DR what their plans are for the common song also after St. John's, and they have stated that they are actually planning to communicate common songs also after St. John's on DR and Ramashang. I think we should look forward to this together. But it's just to say that I have neither the authority nor the intention to impose anything on the DR. I'm glad they found this format. I welcome the fact that the Danes have supported it in this way, and I welcome the fact that the DR has been able to say that they are already planning to give it a more firm format.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603164757	Thank you for the answer, which, as I hear it, is to some extent that there will still be, and to an increasing extent, a common song on DR, but that the Minister cannot interfere directly with it. Peace be to it. I am now convinced that if the minister over a cup of coffee or otherwise it could also be over a glass of wine, or what do I know talking to the people who are on DR, they are listening quite closely. I hope then that the Minister will give some thought because, as has been said, there is no doubt that the Danes have taken up the joint song. You could almost say that it has been reinvented. It is only in recent generations that people can go through childhood and youth and into adulthood without knowing at least 10, 20 or 30 of the most traditional Danish songs and hymns for that matter. This is an enormously important task for ensuring the cultural community and the cohesion of society. And there I hope that the DR may also spread a little beyond Emil Holm's Channel. It's as if you've been very concerned about growing your own brands. Phillip Faber has become everyone's darling. There I think there is also a need to look at what is going on in the assembly halls and at the various assemblies around the country. There have also been all kinds of alsang events in the congregation houses, where there are excellent singers and so on. I think it is an obligation also for the DR to convey what is going on outside DR's own circle of employees, no vicious words about Phillip Faber or anyone else, and that is to say, one sort of gets out in reality. TV 2 Charlie has succeeded in this in their community song programs. That is why I hope, with the length of a minister's arms, that the Minister for Culture will also send the message that there is a great deal going on in living civil society and that it is a DR obligation to get it communicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165001	Just as there is no legal basis for the Minister to have views on specific programmes, I do not have it on who are hosts in the specific programmes. But I can tell you that, even before Corona had taken some of what the questioner might be asking, DR still, under the leadership of the mentioned Phillip Faber, was to come around the country for 24 hours of common song, I believe, from various parts of Denmark, where it was precisely the locals who were invited into high schools and other local assembly places, and where it was also local personalities who shared with cultural personalities to justify it, like that, for example. has been the case with the communal song on Friday evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165050	Yes, and in this way Phillip Faber has entered the tradition that I think the famous Michael Bojesen in his time also founded a DR koryphæ, at least at some point. So there's no doubt that DR has been driving this, but I still think that there's a need to get a broad story about what common song is out. As you know, I travel a lot in Bakken's rest, and I would say that is a common song. We know how in congregation houses and all sorts of other places around, without it being initiated by DR, this is going on. And there it is just my prayer that the Minister has a position that it should also cover. It is not forbidden to have an attitude, even if you are a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165130	I'd be very happy if this joint song on DR just kept blooming and blooming. I do not think, however, that we should impose full responsibility on the DR. One of the things that I both got to know in my previous work as mayor, but also with pleasure as minister, is in fact this House of Songs, which is located in Herning, and has succeeded in setting up singing power centres in recent years, among other things. in Roskilde together 10 places in Denmark. And I can tell you that they are actually up for discussion here in the Finance Act in the coming autumn, so there may be a good discussion between the questioner and I on how we can continue the good experiences that are precisely about getting common songs spread out in jobs, in schools, in the community, far and wide.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165217	The questioner for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165218	I regard this as a very welcome comment. And I think it may be very important to get the Folketing involved, both to show that the Folketing is a representative house that takes that part of the Danish cultural heritage seriously, but perhaps also to send a signal to DR. Where the Minister's arm's lengths etc. The Danish Parliament does not have the same powers. So we'd be happy to accept that invitation. And then I hope from there that the song will swing all over the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165253	Specifically: If the Danish Parliament wishes to make recommendations in relation to common songs, it is, when we in the Ministry of Culture review this public service agreement that it can be written in concrete form. In my view, it would still be fairly detailed enough, but I look forward to further discussions with the questioner on how we will have a common song.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165323	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Thank you to the questioner. The question has been answered. That concludes Question Time as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200603165334	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 4 June 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
