ParlaMint-DK_20200520101505	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520101508	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. If any of you do not object, I consider the consent to be granted. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520101525	No amendments have been tabled. Any of you guys want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520101553	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The proposal has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102002	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102017	Thank you. You have to get used to standing on the platform again. First, you have to get used to not having to, and now you have to get used to having to do it again. Everything's gonna be okay. Perhaps one of the most important things to say about this motion for a resolution is that it is simply so difficult to find a way and a model to make these things succeed. In the government, we believe that some of the most important legislation that has been made in recent years on the whole issue of distribution is the agreement that was made on parallel societies under the previous government and in which the Social Democratic Party participated. It is basically that we go in and decide how many people from vulnerable residential areas must be in each day's institution. There was really the same problem complex as here, and that is why it is about vulnerable residential areas and not about ethnicity or social background or anything else; you got it defined as exposed residential areas, and that was better than nothing, you can say, and that was the best you could do at that time. Now we are faced with it again, and in the government we are of the opinion that it is highly inappropriate to grant subsidies to schools or to run schools at all, whether it is free schools or primary schools, where there is too much confusion between pupils. We believe that this is also true in the area of youth education, where we believe that we should also go in and go to the macros in relation to getting the pupils distributed in a way that allows sustainable educational institutions throughout the country and where it is not the case that an extremely biased composition of pupils destroys the possibility of running education which, in our optics, must go on two legs, because that is what this is all about. When we look at what day-care institutions, primary schools, free primary and upper secondary schools should deliver to our society, it is on the one hand that they have to deliver, that we have children who can read, calculate and write. It is also quite crucial for the children themselves that they can do so, in order to be able to manage in our society. On the other hand, it is so much about forming whole people, that is to say, creating a broad education for children and young people who enable them to navigate in the society where we are put together by different social groups and different ethnic groups, have different religions, etc. We therefore believe that a very important part of the task of a school system is to ensure that children are formed into whole people. And then it goes without saying that if you have the idea of what the school system should be able to deliver, then it is most inappropriate if the composition of the pupils is very skewed, because that means that you are formed into a world picture where there is only someone who is similar to yourself that doesn't work. It can then be on all sorts of parameters; it can be on social parameters that can be on ethnic parameters, religious parameters and anything else. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very much committed to the fact that when there are schools that have very high percentages of certain groups, including Muslim free schools, which are what we are talking about today, then it is no good. There are also primary schools in Denmark where the percentage of bilingual children is too high, which means that we leave some children behind. It is children who are already challenged by coming from home, where they cannot be helped so much to get to know Danish society, and then we leave the children to some schools where they cannot learn either, because all the other children have the same problems. We simply do not think we can be familiar with this, and we believe that it creates a breeding ground for parallel societies. That is why we also support the purpose of this motion for a resolution. We have also indicated this on previous occasions. It is also very clear that the rules we have to make must be within the framework of the rules of the Convention on Human Rights. This proposal does not, and that is why we have announced that we will find a solution. We actually think we have some clear ideas on this, that is, how to get around this problem in a way that ensures that educational institutions, day-to-day provision and youth education institutions reflect the population composition of a local area. As soon as it is done, we will of course present it to both the public and also here in the Danish Parliament, so that we can have a discussion on whether we can jointly • if we can, by the way, secure a majority in favour of it can go further along that path; of course, I hope we can do so very much. But we are not ready yet, and that is why I cannot present it from the platform today. Some of this has also been somewhat prevented by the fact that we have had a corona crisis, which has at least postponed it for a few months. But it is still our intention that in the course of the coming year we will be able to present a concrete model which not only relates to free schools, which is very important, but also relates to what we are doing about the distribution of pupils in addition, including in the area of youth education, where we have already had a committee of experts to express our views and make some suggestions as to where we should be moving forward. In other words, in the field of youth education, we are relatively close to having to start negotiations as well. However, I would like to stress that, with my glasses, this is one of the most important things, namely that when you go to an integration project, you do not make residential areas where people live most of all the same, and do not make schools where people are most of all the same, but that we use that strength and create the cohesion that lies in meeting each other across, both where we live, where we work and where we go to school and are in education. That is why, in my opinion, one of the most important tasks is also to ensure that the cohesion is supported by the structures we put in. That is why I am starting by referring to the parallel society agreement, because I believe that a very important step was actually taken, and it really annoys me that the previous government was not able to present a model for how we did, both in the field of free school, but also in the area of primary and secondary education. On the other hand, it got some work started in relation to the distribution committee on youth education, which I think has come up with some incredibly exciting proposals and provides a good basis for further work. So I very much hope that we can move forward in this area and create an educational structure that does not allow us to have a completely separate society where we do not get to know each other cross and cross the social, ethnic and religious divides that are in any society today. I think that is what I wanted to say at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102703	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102710	Thank you. I hope that the Minister and that is what I hear will also call for negotiations to ensure that we do not have schools in Denmark that discourage integration. I know that too is something that the Minister is very concerned about. I think we can make some demands on these schools, which make sure that they work actively with integration. I would like to ask whether the previous government had an investigation carried out by the schools into the supervisors who are. It turned out that some of these supervisors are overseeing, for example. the religious schools, including the Muslim schools, have what VIVE calls a very strong network force, i.e. that they are, like, within the same network. And I would really like to see a sharper supervision being carried out, which may even be with a list of approved supervisors, so that you yourself, as head teacher, do not have an influence on who you get. Is that something the government could be prepared to continue working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102818	Yes, indeed. We will be prepared to look at tightening up supervision again and, moreover, to make demands for active work on integration. But I have to say that there's something above all that. This is really what I call the small handles, which I actually think can move on something. But where we really change children's lives and opportunities, there is where we give them an opportunity to know our society very well and to be formed. That is what I mean by the broad concept of education, that is, that they are formed to be whole people in the society we are. It therefore requires that we distribute the students in a completely different way from today. I also hear that SF would like to do so, and at least that is something that I intend to call for broad negotiations as well when we get to the point where we can present a proposal. But yes, I would, of course, like to take part in looking at the other things too, especially with regard to supervision, where I also think there are some challenges that have not been resolved, although a great deal has been tightened up in recent years. That credit must be given to the previous government, but I think we could go more to the macrons than we have done. But for me it is blinking and upset, and it is therefore also good that we have this occasion today with this motion for a resolution to take up the discussion that we should have a distribution, and it is no good that we have schools in Denmark, neither free schools nor other schools where the distribution of pupils is so biased. We simply have to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520102931	I think that the advantages of the austerity we have done, for example. more unannounced supervision, a stronger supervision, sharper descriptions in the legislation, is that you have actually come for some of the schools that do not provide, while some of the schools that provide a very good school offer, and that is by far the majority, get peace. So I just think that a comment from here should be that I think that the lamp that the government is working for is good, but if it remains just a lamp on the horizon that is hard to reach, because it is so large and extensive, then I think I am more at the stage of making some good, perhaps less tighter, which hits the few that we know create great problems so that the others can have peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103013	Well, I do not think so either, and I really do believe that we can find mechanisms that are relatively simple and therefore do not have to be any very large animals. But the mechanism just needs to be in place. Then I'm gonna say something about the good school offer thing. I mean, I've seen schools that have really good grades, but a completely biased student composition. Do I think it's a good school offer? No, actually, I don't. For then they only live up to half of what is meant by going to school, namely to teach the children Danish and mathematics, but not the other half, which is about forming children to be part of the society of which they are part. That is why I simply do not accept the premise that we can talk about a good school offer in this context. That is also why it is so crucial for Social Democracy that we ensure that a more balanced composition of pupils is established across ethnic, religious and social divisions in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103057	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103101	Thank you so much. This is all about Muslim free schools. And in 2018 the Social Democratic Party supported an identical motion for a resolution, and it was promised before the elections that it wanted to cut Muslim free schools by winning government power. Social democracy did so: Social democracy sits in the Prime Minister's Office, but nothing has happened. And I understand that the Minister does not believe that Islam should be the basis of ideas for schools in Denmark, and I am so pleased about that, but can the Minister explain in which she believes that Islam is contrary to Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103148	I am not particularly religiously scientist, so I would rather not go into some long debate about how a particular religion fits into something. What I consider to be the Minister of Education is that I do not think it is good for schools to be established where there is a very uneven composition, and that is whether it is about how one is religiously composed or ethnically composed, or something else; I simply do not think that is good. After all, the majority of Muslim free schools are characterised by an extremely biased composition of pupils, as is the case with some primary schools, as is the case with some upper secondary schools, and we are now in the process of correcting the parallel society agreement for some of the day-to-day services too, and that is simply not the case. But the thing about going into long debates about religion isn't my thing. Then I would say that we have promised to do something about this problem: yes, we have promised, and we intend to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103241	Okay. When a proposal was considered identical to this on 4 April 2018, the Social Democratic Party was in opposition, and the then Social Democratic rapporteur and current minister, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, the following about the rapidly increasing number of Muslim free schools in Denmark, and now I quote:... It undermines the ambitions of social democracy for citizenship, and it weakens cohesion and hence solidarity in society. And this is even happening with a strong and increasing state subsidy. It is untenable in the long run, it must be seen by everyone. Has the Minister changed his mind or has the Social Democratic Party simply forgotten what they promised the Danes before the elections? Because you've been in government for almost a year now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103327	I could not put it better than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It really annoys me that I did not use the word solidarity in my speech, because that is exactly what is being undermined by the fact that there is that fragmentation. I find it very difficult to see where there should be a difference between that, sir. Mattias Tesfaye said in his speech at the time, and what I am saying from up here now, except that I used the word 'coherence' and the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration used the word'solidarity'. But otherwise we stand completely where we did at the time and have a desire that there are no schools in Denmark where the composition of pupils is so skewed. This also means that we want there to be a model for how we award grants to free schools and where there is a requirement that you have a reasonable composition of pupils. And that is what we are in the process of finding a model for, and we are presenting it as quickly as we can, and thus by the end of the next year at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103415	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103423	Thank you. I think it is incredible how good the social democracy and the minister in question are to say things with which I agree. The Minister gives a great many good reasons why we should adopt the proposal we are debating here today. When we tabled a similar proposal two years ago on the basis of a proposal made by the Social Democrats themselves but which they had not received, the Social Democrats and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, as we have just heard, the proposal, but today the Minister says that the proposal cannot be supported. I don't understand where we are. There are all kinds of arguments, including those from the Minister, for us to do this and for us to ensure that we do not have schools that go the wrong way, schools that do not support integration, schools that, on the other hand, support parallel societies. So why is it that the government and the Social Democrats and the Minister cannot support this proposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103518	I think we should divide it into what is called a target and what is called a method. Do we want to go somewhere where there are no schools, where there is such a biased composition of pupils as there is in Muslim free schools? Yes, and that's it, sir. Mattias Tesfaye said as the then rapporteur. In relation to the method used, I would say that I find it very difficult to be a matter of principle. Whether the cat is blue, yellow or green, I really don't care if it can catch mice, and that means that we need to find a method that lasts, and I think it should apply not only to free schools but also to primary schools. For the pupil who is presented with a very skewed school in terms of the composition of pupils, whether we are talking about free schools or primary schools, it does not matter whether the form of the school is one or the other. In other words, on some stretches I simply do not think this proposal goes far enough to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103605	But could we not agree to start by catching a small mouse and then say that this proposal actually goes some way along the way and that we can solve a problem in some schools where we all know there are problems? So the government just has to get started and adopt this. The minister himself says you want to do something, but we haven't seen it, and now we've waited a year, so shouldn't we get started and catch this little mouse here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103634	No, because if you catch this little mouse, there are three very large mice next door, because you only solve the free school problem without deciding where the pupils are going, it happens that the surrounding three, four, five primary schools are too high a percentage. That will be the direct consequence if we do not see the problems in context. And that means that the consequence of catching the little mouse is not very clever, and that means that overall I do not think this proposal solves the problem properly, and that is why the government allows itself to wait to present its own proposal for the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103707	Sir. Kristian Jensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103714	I would like to thank the Minister for his fine words on the parallel social issues of the previous government and the agreement that was reached. I fully share the view that this is a very good and necessary agreement in order to combat the far too many parallel societies we have in Denmark. But, like others, I wonder a little about the difference between social democracy in opposition and the social democracy in government. I shall try to quote from my memory what the Minister said a moment ago, namely that the proposal is not supported because it does not respect human rights. It is clear that then I understand that a party such as the Social Democratic Party will not support it. However, in April 2018, the current Minister for Integration said again that we are planning to vote yes, and further: "And with those words we can support the motion for a resolution. ▪ I just want to know: What new knowledge about the respect for human rights of this proposal does the government have today that we didn't have in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103816	I did not wish to comment on the resolution at the time, so I simply do not have the opportunity to explain it. I cannot answer the question because I was neither the rapporteur nor had anything to do with the discussion of the proposal at the time and therefore do not know what kind of knowledge there was. So I wish I could answer the question, but I can't. What I can say is that we are standing where we want the objectives set out in this motion for a resolution to be achieved, and that is why we intend to present a model for it over the coming year. And it is clearly noted in Parantes that it must, of course, be within the scope of the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103854	I think that is a little interesting, that is to say that a minister goes to the floor without realizing how a previous discussion of a precisely similar proposal actually took place. So I would like to ask in a different way: has the Minister been given any more recent information than the 2018 assessment of this proposal's compliance with the Constitution and European Human Rights? For what I am left with is the fact that in 2018, we supported a proposal that was exactly the same and had exactly the same problems with respect for human rights, but that we supported it because the Social Democracy wanted to act strongly in opposition, and now you are in government with the government's responsibility to respect human rights as well, and therefore you cannot support it exactly as it stands. Therefore, I just need to know: What knowledge has the Minister gained that is newer than that in 2018 in relation to whether this proposal respects human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520103949	Well, as I said in my first answer, I do not know the preparatory work behind what was going on then. Of course I have been in reading the debate, but I do not know the basis of knowledge for each treatment that has been, and that means that I would have to return to the questioner about it. Now I have been sitting in the Folketing for 20 years, and it is not the case that I feel obliged to know every single reading of some proposal's course, and that is to say that I have actually felt well dressed in reading what the debate was like at that time. Then I would say that I am a little surprised that the Left is making it a debate about what strategy some party has in relation to something, rather than making it a matter of substance. Because what I think is essential here is that we move beyond the ice in order to create some models where we actually solve the problem. The previous government didn't solve this problem. The previous government resolved something in the context of a parallel agreement on society, and I think that is very good, but this problem was not solved. The question is whether the Left will contribute to that, and I hope so, because I hope that we can land it here broadly in the Folketing instead of making it a rather strange debate about what strategy some parties have had to put forward at what times.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104105	When I... the Minister for Children and Education... that's after the plexiglass has come up... I can't hear when somebody's leaving. ) I should like to speak loud and clear in the future. The next brief remark is from Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104123	Thank you. After all, this political resolution has only one purpose, and that is that today we are being shown the political hypocrisy of the Socialists. I had actually written down on my note that I would like to have some suggestions as to why the Socialists have changed their attitude, what has changed. But you have to understand the answer to Mr. Kristian Jensen, you can't answer that. So now we are voting against the note, which clearly states that it is contrary to both the constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. It's the same thing. So it's quite a turnaround you're out in. Could it have anything to do with the fact that before the elections you would like to be tough, perhaps in order to be able to chase some votes, perhaps taking some votes from the Danish People's Party? One has to say: congratulations, at least we succeeded. But what I really just want to ask, now that you have looked up before the elections on a tough immigration policy, is how you can face the voters who have actually voted for you in the belief that you would remove the state subsidy for the Muslim free schools when you said it before the elections, and now you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104230	First of all, I would like to say that at some point in the case of corona someone wrote in on Twitter because someone had been complaining that there had not been enough Tinka hats in connection with some Christmas broadcast on TV 2, that when we came on the other side of Corona, we should not spend enough time on that kind of thing. Somehow I feel the same way when the rapporteur says that the only purpose of this proposal is to exhibit another party. Are we seriously gonna spend time on this kind of thing? I thought, in fact, that parties here in the Folketing had the purpose of solving some problems in society and not exhibiting each other. The way to be folk bulls with each other, I don't really want to be honest with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104308	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104311	However, it is quite a real question to ask the Social Democrats why they have changed their position in this way when they said one thing before the elections, laid one line clear and indicated that they would vote in favour and that there were no problems, despite a note which clearly stated that it was contrary to conventions and the constitution, and now they do not want to. In fact, even after the elections, no announcements have been made by the government about how to tighten up supervision or how to otherwise ensure that parallel societies are countered. So how on earth do you explain that to the voters? The Social Democrats must then face that. What I really just wanted to hear is whether the Minister can't see that it's going to sound hollow. We've had this debate once before. It was very clear that we would vote in favour. Now you vote against. It sounds hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104402	If the main thing is to exhibit that somebody is doing something in here and not solving some social problems, I think it is one debate. If it is about solving some problems, I think it is another debate and, frankly, I would like most of all to be included in the last debate. I have it as a starting point that what is essential is the objective, in other words, that we avoid the existence of schools in Denmark where there is such an imbalance as is the case in the vast majority of Muslim free schools and, incidentally, also a large number of primary and secondary schools. I would like to put forward a method of doing that. I hope to be able to obtain the support of the Danish Parliament when we reach so far that we have put forward a proposal. I expect to put it forward within the next year. In other words, as a starting point, I agree with Mattias Tesfaye's objective. We are going to put forward a method for this which can be done. I think that discussion about who is exhibiting who or something is a strange way of dealing with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104505	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104510	Now it is very, very rare that cats are blue, green or yellow. But I actually managed to see a green cat once. I had a chat with the owner, and we talked a little bit about that strange color that cat had. He said he knew that it wasn't a very pretty color that the cat was green. Then I said, but at least it can catch mice. To that he replied: No, it actually cannot. I'm building on it that green cats can't actually catch mice. So the question is, why did the Social Democrats before the elections try to convince the voters that this green cat, in the form of this resolution, could catch mice when the Social Democrats both then knew and today know that it really can't?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104556	Well, I don't really think I can get closer to that than my answers to the other questions. So I really have nothing new to say in this context, other than that what is essential to us is that we find a method for distributing pupils, children and young people in upper secondary education too, so that we have a balanced composition of pupils. To that end, there are several different tools, and we do not think this is the best. We believe that this raises a large number of other issues in relation to the surrounding schools and that there are problems in relation to the Convention on Human Rights. In other words, on several parameters, we believe that we would be able to set out a model which is both within the conventions and which, moreover, solves the problem more appropriately. We may be criticized for thinking that we have found this since the last proposal was made. On the other hand, I think it is a very good idea to put forward the proposals that we think are best at meeting the same objective that we had at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104657	Well, the Social Democrats and the government should not hear any criticism of the fact that it has been found that there are other and better ways of doing this, which also live up to the intentions to live up to human rights conventions and the like. I just always think it's worth talking about why opposition parties lie to the electorate. So why did the Social Democrats lie to the voters that this was a good proposal to solve these issues? Why was it lied about before the elections in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104729	I do not recognise that paragraph and therefore have no answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104734	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. Then we shall move on to the rapporteur's line, because there are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520104748	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this discussion, which by its very nature is also an area and a problem of great concern to the Social Democratic Party. In Denmark we actually believe that we should go to school across social and cultural backgrounds. We speak the same language, we share a number of values, and primary school is one of the most important paths and one of the most important places we meet each other, and therefore it is also one of the most crucial engines of integration that forms the foundation of a strong and well-functioning society. That is why we are very concerned about the increasing polarisation we are experiencing in some places, where there are simply selected schools with a very, very skewed pupil composition. When non-western immigrants are concentrated in certain schools, residential areas and day care institutions, it hampers integration and increases the risk of religious and cultural parallel societies. This is one of the greatest structural challenges we face. It is clear that foreign policy is always difficult to discuss, and there are usually more nuances than the black and white that we often draw up and therefore also disagree on. And of course there are also a lot of refugees and immigrants who have come here and who go to school and share our values and are part of Danish society, and of course we have to say to them: you are totally on the wagon, you are part of society, you are important to move on together. However, with regard to the refugees and immigrants who have come here and do not become part of Danish society and who are concentrated in schools where you reproduce and meet across values that do not rhyme with what we otherwise support in terms of democracy and diversity, you must of course also make demands. And that is the reason why the Social Democrats want to put an end to the imbalances and very skewed student compositions that have been in some schools. The proposal has been discussed in the past, and that has also been said by several rapporteurs today. It is also clear that we have a positive attitude and want to put an end to the schools which are so crooked and which the proposal is aimed at, for example. But there is not really any indication that there is a political majority in favour of this proposal. As the Minister has explained, we believe that we have a more effective way of getting around and solving this problem, and that is why we would rather discuss it when we are ready to present a more comprehensive and better answer to it. The real challenge was, of course, that we agreed with the previous government on a number of things in relation to the dispute with some of the parallel communities, but on this issue no preparatory work had been done when we took over government power. This proposal had been rejected, but it had not been said how to do it better. We have started to do that, and we are going to turn every stone around. And I want to say that I understand that the Danish People's Party is taking up this question and would like to have the assurance that we are still turning away every stone, that we are still getting to the bottom of this, and that we are going to do away with schools that have such a skewed composition. I can confirm that, so thank you for that opportunity. We will not get to that in this parliamentary year that the motion for a resolution demands, but we will come forward with a proposal because we agree with DF that it needs to be resolved. So we're not gonna support this resolution and we're not gonna be able to put anything forward in this parliamentary year. However, we are going to address that issue and ensure that schools with state subsidies cannot be run where the composition of pupils is so distorted, which is what is happening among other things. is referred to in DF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105142	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and we will start with Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105149	Thank you so much. This is all about Muslim free schools. And I would actually like to put the same question to the rapporteur that I put to the Minister before. For in 2018, the Social Democratic Party supported a resolution that was identical to this one, and it promised the electorate before the elections that it would steal Muslim free schools if it won government power, as it did. Social democracy is in the Prime Minister's Office, but absolutely nothing has happened. I could understand from the Minister that the Minister's position is that Islam should not, of course, be the basis of ideas for schools in Denmark, and I assume that the rapporteur, since the rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, also shares the Minister's view on this, and I am glad of that. That is also what I said to the Minister before, but it may well be that the rapporteur can now put into words and explain in which he believes that Islam is contrary to Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105246	In fact, like the Minister of Education, I do not very much want to discuss religion right now. What I would like to discuss is how to avoid having schools with such a skewed composition as we have. And that is simply not true when it is suggested that we no longer mean what we said before the elections, that we would do away with those schools, with those day-care centres and with those upper secondary schools, because that is what we mean exactly. We can also see that there is not in fact a majority in the current Parliament for the resolution that lies here. On the other hand, we believe that we have a different and better model that we can put forward so that we can solve the problem that we promised the voters and all sorts of others before the elections, including the children who go to these schools, to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105332	Thank you for that answer. After all, in Denmark we pay to schools via tax; this applies to primary schools, free schools and private schools. And it is precisely to ensure that Danish children are educated into a society of democracy, freedom and gender equality. Islam means submission and is in opposition to all of this; in opposition to freedom, in opposition to democracy and in opposition to gender equality. When does the Social Democratic Government intend to put an end to the flow of Danish tax dollars into Muslim free schools? If you agree that this madness must be stopped, why has it not been stopped since you have had the power of government for a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105420	I've actually said it already. The minister also mentioned it. After all, there was a totally blank piece of paper when the minister entered the ministry. No preliminary exercises had been made by the previous government to find out which way one could go to where this problem could be solved if one could not go this way. It takes time. We have also, as most people know, had our hands full with a rather acute crisis over the last few months, which has of course delayed it a little. But the Minister has just said that there will be a proposal because we want to ensure that both the free schools and, for that matter, the primary schools, the secondary schools and the kindergartens are more diverse, so that we avoid the problem of the imbalance which exists in some schools and such as this proposal. also refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105505	Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105508	It's kind of a question of where to start. I mean, I thought it was pretty crazy to see such a timid minister who couldn't answer the questions about what has changed. And that is why I think I would like to give the rapporteur an opportunity, like unfolding what exactly is the reason for backing a resolution back in 2018, while we now have an identical resolution, which is then chosen to vote down. What has changed during that period? Is that what Mr. Kristian Jensen asks, new information, new assessments that are valid? Or is it just that you've run out of politics because you had to be tough in an election campaign? In conclusion, I would just like to ask: will the Socialists themselves describe this as political hypocrisy? And if you don't want to, why is it that you don't think this is hypocritical?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105608	What we can see is that the problem that existed before the elections still exists, and in some places it has got worse. What we can see is that the proposal that is on the table today is not close to having a majority. And the third thing we can see is that we actually believe that we can find a better model which does not have the challenges that we are discussing today, namely to pass on the problems to surrounding schools. Well, we just think we have a better solution than this proposal. And I therefore believe that it is our duty as a party and as politicians to pursue what we believe is the best solution to the problem, instead of the first resolution being tabled or, for that matter, that we have discussed it in the past. So, I am not quite sure why the Conservative rapporteur thinks it is more relevant to do such a Christiansborg discussion instead of discussing how to solve the problem in the best possible way. It could be that the Conservatives would contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105710	A Christiansborg discussion? After all, it is a political proposal which has been put forward and which has been backed up and which is being tabled again and which is then rejected. It is, in fact, just politics where one expresses one's opinion. And I think there are a lot of people here who are interested in why social democracy is changing its attitude. But I understand that there will be a good solution not tomorrow, but next year. And in this respect, I can intuitively stand and think that nobody believes that. I therefore believe that there will be a solution which will be supported by the support parties and which will address this problem adequately. That is why I have two questions for the rapporteur. Firstly, have the support parties been involved at this stage in the comprehensive solution that is being discussed next year? Secondly, are we prepared to bypass our parliamentary basis in order to achieve the right solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105805	Why don't we take things in the right order? I really hope that the Left in the Danish Parliament, but also the Right, will help to resolve this. After all, no party can be asked to deal with a proposal that the government has not yet completed. After all, it would be a good idea to speak too loudly to say that we should sign something that has not been presented at this stage. However, I do not accept at all the premise that we should have changed our position. We want to continue to take a stand, and we also want to take a stand through a proposal which can bring together a majority here in the Danish Parliament. And we have a reasonable suspicion that this would be easier with a proposal other than what is here, for which there is no indication that there is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105847	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105850	This is an interesting discussion. And I think that the rapporteur speaks and speaks about what the Socialists often do about this, without anything happening. We have had a longer period in the past with a Social Democratic Prime Minister, where we were constantly waiting for the good solution that came tomorrow and that never came. We have now waited a year and the Socialists are still saying that there will be a good solution tomorrow. We have a proposal here, and the Social Democrat rapporteur stood there two years ago and said: we support the proposal. Today, the Social Democrat rapporteur stands on the same platform and says: we do not support the proposal. What has happened in the two years that make the Social Democratic Party turn on a plate and think exactly the opposite of what was done at the time? If it's not changing my mind, I don't know what it is to change my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520105951	What I am saying here today is that it is quite important, actually absolutely crucial, and that is what my rapporteur's speech was about us resolving this problem. And that is why the government is quite determined to come up with a solution which is better than the one proposed by the Danish People's Party today, but which also has a better chance of obtaining a majority. That is our ambition and that is what we will be presenting. Because we have to deal with the problems that the Danish People's Party points to, that is clear. And then I would say in relation to pretending that the Social Democratic Party is probably counting on you not to present it today, and then it just goes away: no, that is, it does not go away in reality. But I don't think the Danish People's Party will stop bringing this forward either. It should be very strange if one suddenly said: well, okay, now we have had one debate on it, and then we will not raise it again. We expect, of course, that you will also be interested in this in the next parliamentary year. And I will look forward to that discussion, and I will also look forward to discussing when we have a proposal that we can put forward which can solve the problem better and which, I hope, will be able to bring together a wider majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110058	It is a little interesting, of course, that the position of the Social Democrats depends on whether there is a majority or not. In other words, whether or not you support a proposal must be based on the position you have and the approach you have to the specific proposal. But there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party will, of course, continue to hold on to the government, so that something happens, so that it does not just become words, words and words. That is why I would just like to hear: when is this proposal coming? And can you lift the veil a little bit? It sounds a little like you have the proposal, so couldn't we just have a few words on the proposal that the government is about to make, which solves these problems a lot, much better than the proposal we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110135	After all, we will come forward with our proposals when we are done with our proposals. However, I would point out that the Minister for Education said that it expects the Minister for Education to do so in the next parliamentary year. After all, it will not be a different answer from the fact that five minutes have passed and that a rapporteur has been put on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110152	Sir. Kristian Jensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110156	In 1992 and again in the year 2000, the Danish Parliament published a small book entitled "A robe of linguistic rubber band." These are statements that show how politicians have been good at using the language by stretching it to cover something. However, I do not believe that any robe is elastic enough to cover up what the rapporteur has just said, namely that social democracy has not changed its attitude. In 2018 they say: we are voting in favour of this proposal • and with these words we can support the proposal. And today they say: we vote no. How can one believe that any robe of linguistic rubber band can cover up the fact that from 2018 until today one has changed position 180 degrees in relation to whether one can support the proposal or not? Therefore, my question is the same as to the Minister of Education: Has the rapporteur gained new knowledge about the legal scope of this proposal, compared to what was there when the Danish Parliament dealt with a exactly similar proposal in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110259	Well, sir. Kristian Jensen is a good parliamentarian, and I understand, of course, that it is impossible to imagine an elastic band that can hold this robe. But come on, sir. Kristian Jensen can find a way to distinguish between content and objective and method. I think so, sir. Kristian Jensen can. And when we say today that we have exactly the same attitude to what the problem is and that it needs to be resolved and that we think we have a better way of solving it, I think that Mr. Kristian Jensen can understand that if Mr. Kristian Jensen will. But if you would rather discuss language robes and rubber band and refer to books published by the Folketing, then peace be with it. I really think it would suit us all if we went into discussing whether we want to solve this problem. And then, when we come up with proposals, I am sure and hope that the Left will take a constructive part in the discussion on resolving this. For the previous government did not reject the fact that the problem was simply rejected, that any kind of solution could be found to it, and I hope we can do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110411	We did not in any way refuse to find a solution. On the contrary, we went in and solved it by closing individually those schools that did not meet our standards. Because we tightened up the supervision which the previous government, led by the Social Democrat Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, did not want to tighten. We tightened supervision and the result is quite clear: a strip of free schools has been closed which did not meet the standards we have. The rapporteur was linguistically elastic enough not to answer my question, so I try to repeat it: Has the rapporteur gained new knowledge about the legal assessment of this proposal that is different from the assessment that was in 2018? For in 2018, the Social Democratic Party felt it was right to vote in favour of it, and I understand from the Minister now that it believes that social democracy can no longer be achieved within the framework of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110501	I would like to say that, in all my incompetence, I have gained a great deal of new knowledge, because I was not the rapporteur last time. So in this way, the whole discussion is really new to me. It is true that the previous government tightened up supervision, and the Minister for Education has actually praised the previous government for this. However, I do not have the impression that the problem has been solved and the biased composition of pupils that we have in some schools still seems to me to be a problem, even if supervision has been tightened up. That's why I'd like to, as sir. Jacob Mark said to be a part of discussing how we can strengthen supervision more. But I would also like to discuss how we can, if I may say so, get the basic problem, namely that we have schools, day care institutions, youth education, which do not at all reflect the society that is in the rest of the region, in the rest of the country or in the rest of the city, of which you are a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110553	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110556	Thank you. There were three parties in 2018 that were positive about this proposal, and it was DF, S and SF, and that is why we were also called for negotiations with the then Minister of Education. Now there is much talk of new knowledge, but I think there is a lot that is not being said here. The report from the Ministry was, in fact, ready at the time, and it had been consulted with the Ministry of Justice, namely that this proposal should not be made. That's it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Mattias Tesfaye and myself were told, and so we asked the then government to work on a new proposal, but it just never came. That is why I am very pleased that we are going to make a proposal which can actually be included in the area of human rights and which will be effective. I'd like to ask you something. Now Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party on free primary schools, but I think that crooked schools are a problem both for free primary schools and also for primary schools, so will we be ready to put forward proposals which also ensure that there is a mixed distribution of pupils in the primary schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110657	Thank you for your question, and thank you also for your collective memory. I can only support it, as Mr. Jacob Mark says. To the question, we are not of the opinion that a biased composition is a bigger problem in one kind of school than it is in the other kind of school. We are basically of the opinion that if we do not meet across social, cultural and religious backgrounds, and if we do not meet across school, in the day-care institution and in youth education, we will not learn from each other what we need to learn from each other in order to become both professionally skilled, but also to be citizens of a common society in which we have cohesion, solidarity. We have just been through a crisis that has tested the cohesion force, and it showed that it is very strong in Denmark, and we want to take care of that, and that is true, completely regardless of what kind of school or institution or youth education you are at. So, yes, our aim is to ensure broad composition everywhere in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110757	Thank you very much, sir. Jens Joel. There are no further brief comments, and that is why I would like to invite Mr Seligman. Kristian Jensen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520110818	I would like to start by stating that we in the Left are deeply concerned about the lack of integration that we have seen, and we are also deeply concerned that we can see a number of free schools, but also, for that matter, primary schools which, because of their operation, do not meet the standards and requirements and expectations that we as a society have when they receive public support. Nor do they do the work that we expect, namely to raise pupils to participate in an active democracy with the freedom and respect for democracy and human rights that are necessary to be an active citizen of Denmark. We think it is a big problem that we see parallel societies where we have our own standards and own values, and we think it is a huge problem that in some of these parallel areas there are schools that have too high a concentration of pupils with other ethnic backgrounds. But it is not solved by going in and making rules at individual schools, it is solved by disbanding the parallel societies, and therefore it was so incredibly important that in 2018 we had a big ghetto strategy, a ghetto plan, where we get softened up in some of the ghetto and parallel societies that are where the idea is to get mixed housing and mixed population composition, so that we do not have the ghettos that then move into the schools • neither the public schools nor the free schools. I believe that, if we get a much wider composition of our population in the areas, we will have broken down and replaced the ghettos that we have with more mixed communities, also along the way, will see that it is contagious in the schools that are there. When we on the Left are worried about this, it also means that when we were in government, we didn't just let this area sail its own lake, but actually went in and took active action. We tightened the supervision that must be provided by the Ministry of Education in relation to the individual free schools, i.e. in terms of 10 whether the free schools meet the standards, requirements and standards that we have set for society. Unfortunately, we have to note that not everyone did so, and therefore there is also an overview of the free primary schools, which have been subject to increased supervision, withheld grants, etc., in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, and there we will see that we have been in and closing a number of schools because we have removed the subsidy for them. And I believe that this is the right way forward. We solve the problems by removing the subsidy, instead of solving the problem, by all schools having to undergo such a special study. There are a number of schools, including schools that have foreign backgrounds or Muslim backgrounds for that matter, which can actually make a good effort. I do not belong to those who cut everyone apart and say that, because the school board or the student composition has a certain religious background, you can just say that they get a certain result. I think that, on the basis of a liberal principle, people should be assessed individually and assessed individually, that is what we are doing with enhanced supervision. We received an assessment last time from the Ministry of Justice, and I was very surprised that apparently neither the Minister nor the Socialist rapporteur has bothered to read the annex that was given last time. There we received an assessment from the Ministry of Justice, which quite clearly said that if it is the case that the proposal is being implemented, it will be indirect discrimination, and it is assessed and now I quote further that this is also the case if a special condition is introduced which should only apply to free schools with a share of pupils with a foreign background of more than 50%. So the Ministry of Justice's assessment back then was that it would be indirect discrimination, and thus they say in their cautious manner that the proposal raises important questions in relation to section 70 of the Constitution. Among other things: Therefore, the Left rejected the proposal in 2018 and will also say no to it this time. This does not change the fact that some schools are still problematic, and that does not change the fact that there is still a need to look at whether our supervision is good enough. Nor does it change the fact that if the government, not tomorrow, but in the next session, comes up with a proposal that can help to resolve this in a better way than we are solving it today and that remains within the framework of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, the Left is of course interested in entering into negotiations and supporting such a plan, if there is, therefore, a plan that can solve it better. We have just been involved in the strengthening of supervision, which means that we have closed down some of the schools that were problematic, also since we debated the proposal here in 2018. I'm sorry we didn't get an even bigger ghetto package in 2018. The government had actually set out to spend even more money to change our composition, it failed, but in turn we managed to do the tighter supervision, and that is why we believe that this is a way forward. We agree that there is a problem and that is why I am glad that the issue and the proposal have been raised again, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111336	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111340	Thank you. I would really like to know what the policy of the Left is in relation to the distribution of pupils, because it was sometimes slightly unclear under the previous government, also because it was a minister from the Liberal Alliance who led the education field. I remember Mrs. Inger Løjberg and Mr. Carl Holst often said that it was the policy of the Left that one would like to have a distribution of pupils both in the free primary schools and in the primary schools and for example. Put a ceiling on how many children of non-Western origin could go to a school. I think that is sensible, because I believe that children should meet across communities. But now the rapporteur says that the way to solve it is not by setting up rules for individual schools, but by making them, for example. The ghetto package. So what is really the policy of the Left? For example, is it... to create a ceiling on how many non-Western students there can be in the individual schools, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111434	For example, if you go in and look at a large number of our international schools, you will see that they have plenty of students who have foreign backgrounds. And if we went in and put a ceiling on how many there might be, we'd have a problem here. Therefore, the answers to the political questions are sometimes harder to give than it is to ask the question. Therefore, we have not found a good model for how to make the distribution of foreign students forward-looking. We've been working on it. Until we find a model that is workable and that can be executed, what we have said is that the way forward is to do the tighter supervision, so we have some who are watching whether the schools are being met by what we have asked for, namely that they prepare students for a life of freedom and democracy, and that they do so with respect for the values that are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111525	Now Mr. Grilled. Kristian Jensen was just the Socialist rapporteur because the Social Democrats were unable to vote in favour of the proposal which they themselves had argued for in the press a few years ago. So, the Left itself argued that a ceiling should be placed on how many non-Western pupils there should be in primary and free primary schools. Now the rapporteur says that this is no longer the case. I just need to understand. If the Social Democratic Party makes a proposal to create such a ceiling or to ensure that there is a fixed mix of pupils across the country's schools, is it the policy of the Left to be in favour of it or against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111559	We could not, when we were in government, provide support for a solution to this. We will look at any suggestions the government may make along the way. Until then, all I am saying is that what is essential to me is to intervene where the problems are. And there will be schools where there will still be problems. That is why it is so incredibly important that it be examined whether the enhanced supervision is good enough. Because that's exactly what Mr. Jacob Mark also said earlier: as it were, punishing those who have problems, leaving the others alone. I think that is actually a very good principle. It is a principle that I can easily sign and support. What we are doing in relation to the distribution in schools, yes, we are just looking at what proposals the government might make.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111640	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111642	It is clear that the Left could not at least find what the rapporteur called a good model when in government. We could, of course, carry in, if we did not mean it anyway or had not found the stone of the show, but I really think it is more interesting to tackle two things, as the rapporteur says. Thanks for the speech. I agree with that about supervision. This is extremely important and must be strengthened, but I also hear the rapporteur saying that we are not going to achieve that. So can the rapporteur not confirm that strengthening supervision is not going to solve it, that there are very biased compositions around it, and if it is a problem from the point of view of the Left, will one cooperate in that discussion when the government comes up with a proposal? We actually think we should solve this, and will the Left not back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111737	I think I said quite clearly in my rapporteur's speech that when the government comes up with its proposal, we will of course come up for negotiations with a constructive approach to trying to find a solution to the problems that are related to the fact that everyone who goes to school in Denmark, whether it is in a free school or in a primary school, must have good conditions to live up to what is intended, namely that they should be brought up to live in Danish society with our values, our view of freedom, our democracy. That's why we're interested in finding a solution to this. When we have pointed to strengthened supervision, it is because we have been able to see that it has worked. After all, we have not seen before that we have dared to intervene and actually removed the subsidy from schools that failed to meet the foundations. This was done from 2017 onward, because we had the tighter supervision, and therefore it may be true that supervision always has the problem of looking backwards and looking at what has happened, but I think that the reinforced supervision can also help keep some schools on track and make them live up to the values and standards that we have set in here from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111842	Thank you. I'm still similar to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, I think, a little bit in doubt if the Left thinks it's a win that you meet across. You can learn about each other. You can also learn to have respect for each other, but there is certainly a difference between learning that you should have respect for people who come from a different background than yourself, and then actually meet them, be with them, be friends with them. That is why it is important for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that we actually meet across, and that is actually what I doubt whether the Left really thinks is important, or whether the Left thinks it is okay to go to school separately, just as one remembers to learn that the others across the street must also be respected. Does the Left want to help ensure that we get to know each other across this society and go to school and institutions together, or does the Left think it is enough that, if we can say so, we go theoretically to learn about and respect each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520111943	I can't understand that uncertainty at all. One of the things we did that really helped to soften the population division, parallel societies were precisely the big ghetto package from 2018, which had exactly the purpose of integrating us with each other. We weren't supposed to have groups that were isolated to themselves. What is also clear is that I am in favour of free school legislation in Denmark allowing free schools to be created, whether free schools with Catholic, Jewish or Muslim backgrounds. It's part of free school law. It is also part of the Danish tradition of freedom that you can do so. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112042	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112045	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. A long way along the way, I would like to acknowledge that we have been working together to tighten up some of these areas during the last government period, and that has also been very good. But we couldn't agree on this. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the Left does not agree that this would be a good thing to do, because we could actually tackle a problem that was there with determination. The rapporteur himself quotes from the legal assessments and, as I remember them, they are not saying clearly that this resolution cannot be done, but that there are some questions. At the same time, it is also the case with the Court of Human Rights that indirect discrimination can be done if it is objective and proportionate. In other words, if we can now figure out how we are doing this and set up these criteria, so that it is objective and proportionate, so that all the rules are respected, is the Left willing to implement this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112141	We fully agree that we have a problem to resolve. I am also pleased that while we were in government and the Danish People's Party were often able to find good solutions and thus combat the problem. But our paths are divided by the motion for a resolution that is here, among other things. Because of the judgement of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice writes among other things: on page 5: • According to the Ministry of Justice's assessment, other, less intrusive and more appropriate ways of pursuing the purpose can be identified..... That is what is being said by Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's side on proportionality, according to the Ministry of Justice's assessment not present. That is why I read the note in such a way that we will not be able to implement the proposal without violating the Constitution and human rights. The Justice Department doesn't write it that clearly. I fully acknowledge that. However, after many years of experience with letters from the Ministry of Justice, I know the Ministry of Justice, and they often leave it to the courts to make the final decision. But with what I read out of it, as I interpret it, this will not be proportional and thus run counter to the agreements and the constitution we have in Denmark. That is why we do not want to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112253	After all, the rapporteur says so directly that the Ministry of Justice pointed out that there were other options. Then how come we couldn't drive the previous government to look at the possibilities and find the options so that we had actually solved this problem together?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112310	One of the options is to actually crack down on those who do not meet the standard. This is done by tighter supervision. Therefore, it is also that we have got the list, which is not even updated, but is back from 29 April 2019, over schools and you can just look at the names of them that many of them actually have So what we did was actually go in and address the schools where there was a problem, instead of those schools where there was no problem, also having to document various things as a result of a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112357	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112405	Thank you so much. Well, the rapporteur's remark about intervening where the problems are, and the last thing the rapporteur is saying here, is completely leading into this. Well, Muslim free schools are the problem. We can see that, as the rapporteur himself has just said. Will the Left really think that Danish tax dollars should go to Muslim free schools again and again, whose values are in total opposition to everything we stand for here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112430	It is a Danish principle of law that you are innocent until proven guilty. What Mrs Mette Thiesen is calling for is the opposite: because you are a Muslim free school, you are guilty until you can prove that you are not. I think that is unanswered; I have to say that. I do not think it is a Danish value to say: we start by considering you guilty, and then you have to prove that you are not. What we have done with increased supervision while we were in government is that we have gone in from the authorities and said: we are investigating whether you are breaking with the rules that are and if you break with them, you will be shut down. But that does not mean that all the schools studied break the rules or have been closed down. There are also some schools that have been studied, but actually meet the standards and values that exist. It is on the principle that you are innocent until proven otherwise, and the principle behind it is left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112524	So it makes no sense for the rapporteur to stand around with Jewish free schools or Catholic free schools, because they are not the problem at all. They are Muslim free schools because they are based on Islamic values. Islam is in opposition to all that is otherwise stated in section 1 of the Free School Act, para. 2 I think it is, in other words, that we need to train for democracy, that we need to train for freedom. These rights, which the Left also talks so much about, and that we need to train for gender equality. Islam is in opposition to all that. With the knowledge that I am guessing the rapporteur has now been given, that is to say, as I have given the rapporteur, does the rapporteur and the Left still believe that Danish tax dollars should go to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112608-2	I know the law of free school, quite excellent. Both my parents were free school teachers, and I myself went to free school, so I also know the value of what free schools can do. But it is just that one of the things to do is to teach them respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, and a fundamental freedom is actually freedom of religion; it is that one must believe in the god one wants. Therefore, we should not distinguish between schools depending on whether they are based on Muslim or Christian beliefs. We have to base it on what they do in their teaching, and if they do not live up to the values that are, they must be closed down and Danish tax dollars should not go to them. And that is actually what the previous government achieved by carrying out enhanced supervision that closed the problematic free schools after they had been through supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112653	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen. There are no further brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520112715	The proposal we are dealing with here is directly against the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights, which has been said several times. But I would also like to regard this opportunity as a kind of public education, and there are some who are looking at us around the country. Therefore, I would just like to quote two paragraphs of the Constitution, and before I do so, I would like to remind you that all members of the Folketing are starting their careers in here by signing that they will abide by the Constitution. So we have all done so, and yet we have proposals which are contrary to the basic law. I note that right here. And I'll take out two paragraphs, first section 70: § 70. Because of their creed or descent, no one can be deprived of access to the full enjoyment of civil and political rights or of the fulfilment of any ordinary civic duty. It is one of the key paragraphs that is problematic in relation to the proposal here. The second is § 76: § 76. All children of compulsory education are entitled to free education in primary school. Parents or guardians who themselves ensure that the children receive an education that can measure up to what is generally required in primary school are not obliged to let the children teach in primary school. In other words, we as parents have the right to set up an assembly that would like to have its own school with its own ideology and thus also its own way of teaching. And Article 14 of the Convention on Human Rights still applies in Denmark. What is a huge tradition in Denmark is, in fact, that from the beginning of the constitution in 1849 the fathers of the constitution were discussing only fathers back then that parents should actually be allowed to decide for themselves and thus take responsibility for what kind of education their children should have. It was not included in the constitution then, but there was a separate law about it shortly after, and in 1915 it entered into the constitution. So it is a constitutional right that parents can choose for themselves the education they want their children to feel and be brought up under. And if I am going to take out a few key concepts from there, I would say that freedom and popular rule are the central issue in the whole of the thinking we have about primary school, but also about the free schools, and it is the whole of democracy and the whole of human rights, and so on, that lies in those concepts. And then we've done it... I'd like to sign to Mr. Knox. Kristian Jensen that we have, in fact, tightened supervision in very broad agreements over the last few years. And it has been the primary school conciliation circle that has been the driving force behind it, together with the Minister at the time, Mrs Merete Riisager. There have actually been some changes which have affected the work of free schools quite a lot, and that is because supervision now has to ensure that pupils with non-western backgrounds and pupils from exposed residential areas have the attention of supervision, and these free schools have to demonstrate that they do not affect pupils against freedom and folk rule; those words remain like signal words. And it has actually led to a whole lot of good results, and as I understand it, supervision has become very good at going out to schools and discussing what is actually happening in this teaching • how do children become good citizens and democratic citizens in relation to freedom and popular rule in Denmark etc.? And that is also the task of the primary school, but it is also the task of the free schools to take care of it. Therefore, I think it would be interesting if, in the circle of parties interested in this, we actually had a meeting with the minister of the area and some of those who oversee these schools to hear their experience with it and to hear about how it works. It would be public education which would mean something, I think. But on this basis I have to say that B-32 does not get the votes of the Radical Left. Nor did it when it was last treated as B 68. However, in order to prevent all sorts of issues, I would like to say that the Radical Left would very much, very much like to support mixed housing areas, would very much like to support mixed schools, would like to work for us to achieve this in a proper way. And we are very much in favour of effective supervision, and we are also prepared to look at whether supervision lacks tools in order to be able to carry out the supervision that it needs to carry out. Because it is essential that we also have a good conscience when we send children to free schools, and I would like to share that in our conscience. However, we are taking up supervision for treatment and exchange of experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113202	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113207	Thank you. It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that parents can choose to teach their children themselves, but that does not mean that society has a duty to pay for any education they choose. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is it that the Radical Left cannot be in relation to the concrete proposal we are discussing today by asking schools to prove that they are not countering the integration of foreign pupils into Danish society? What do you radicals have against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113237	We have nothing against this, and that is also why I stress that supervision has the role of being a sparring partner, a counselor, a supervisor, and what you would call it, for the schools that they oversee. It is, of course, the tightening that we have made together and that the Danish People's Party also helped to make, in terms of how we supervise and what requirements we make for supervision. We would like to go further along this path in order to gain some experience of what supervision really thinks about the function they have been given, how it works and whether they need some tools other than those that are there. I think that is relevant for us to make an evaluation of this when we have made the tightenings we have in the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113317	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113320	It is, of course, gratifying to hear, because then I hear that the Radical Left can largely support our proposal. The question is whether we need to change it, so we have to tell all schools that they have to document how they do it. We would find that difficult and stupid, because there are a great many schools that there is no reason to ask, and that is why we have defined it to those where more than half have foreign backgrounds. But if it is necessary to get the Radical Left to support this, then we can change it, so we ask all the free schools how they ensure that they do not discourage the integration of foreign pupils into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113356	That is, in fact, what is happening now with supervision, so it is completely unnecessary with B 32. And B-32 has so much negative about it that it actually runs counter to two paragraphs of the Constitution and to the Convention on Human Rights. This is not something the Radical Left has come up with. It's kind of professionals outside telling it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113416	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113419	Thank you. I would just like to confirm what I think I heard and which I think will be very important if the Radical Left like to work for, namely that we have mixed schools. But we do not get that on our own, and that requires, I believe, changes in subsidies or changes in legislation. We in the Radical Left and the SF have been in some parts of the ghetto package together, and in other parts we are over. That part, for example. has been part of, has been a distribution of children in day care institutions, so we have more mixed day care institutions. Could it be a similar tool that could be used, including for free primary schools, so perhaps not one by one, but this one by saying that one should try to mix the children more so that they meet children from different walks of life?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113512	At first sight, I do not believe that it can be done if we are to comply with the provisions of the Constitution, which I have mentioned here. For the day institutions that are are public. They are not free, they are not created by the parents as such, and it is not correspondingly a free school. But I still want to maintain that parents are allowed to create their own school, no matter what background they have. They just have to meet some requirements, and there I just use the words of freedom and popular rule as what is the democracy part, the equality part, that is, what are the central concepts and values of a society such as the Danish one. Free schools also have to live up to them. But we don't have to decide where the kids are going to go to school. But I do not reject the discussion. Let's have the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113556	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113557	As a school, you can live up to freedom and folk rule, and yet you can contribute to not being integrated. My fear is that you live in a residential area where there are a lot of people with non-Western origins. You can then go straight to the local free school where it goes 100 per cent. children with non-western ancestry, and eventually you can also go to most places, or you can go to the local mosque, where there are often clubs, and then you can go back to the residential area. I think that you should believe whatever you want, and I think that these schools are doing a good job of professional work far along the way, but it is bad that children do not meet across social classes, and this ceiling applies, as far as I know, to private day care institutions as well. Couldn't you imagine that if you can do something within the framework of the Constitution, what I think you can do is do something similar for our school system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113646	I don't know. Well, if sir... Jacob Mark believes that this can be done within the framework of the Constitution, so I think we should also discuss it. Or, in any case, we need to discuss it, because it may be that we can adapt it so that it can fit into the framework of the Constitution. I think these are right considerations and we, as a party, have argued against ghettos. In the areas that have been created in Gellerupparken etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. We really believe that we must give it a proper, strong hand in creating a background for creating some other housing environments. For that is fundamental both for the primary schools there but also for the free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113738	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520113751	Thank you. In fact, we have been working in the SF ever since 2016, when work began to strengthen a more coherent free primary school system, work to strengthen supervision and ensure that all schools meet the freedom and the folk rule requirement, and have also worked for children to go to school with each other across communities. In 2016 we first tightened the supervision of the religious - preaching package. About a year later, we did so again with more unannounced supervision in schools. We also wrote demands for democratic education into free school legislation. It was not all parties that for what some called the symbolism policy but it has had a quite good effect. In any case, this has meant that we have closed down some of the schools which have obviously failed to meet the requirements to which they have to meet. So it is very good that supervision has been strengthened. When the Danish People's Party last time put forward this proposal to ensure that schools do not oppose integration, the SF said that we were in fact positive about demanding the free primary schools to live up to good integration, and we believe that the vast majority of free primary schools do. I'm very fond of the free school system. I think it is fantastic that Denmark has the opportunity to make educational alternatives. We ourselves made a suggestion that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we should have the right to vote in local elections. more than 50 per cent. of the students had a non-western background, so one had to have more focus on Danish, one had to offer sex education, one had to have permanent cooperation with the social workers in the municipality, and in this way one had to make demands that came to the benefit of the children. In fact, this was considered at the time in the Ministry within the framework of the Constitution. However, what the Ministry said about the proposal presented today by the Danish People's Party, which is why the Social Democracy, together with the Danish People's Party, came against a wall, was that it was against the Constitution. The note, which has also been referred to several times today, states that it raises important questions in the constitution. That's what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as a fig leaf, so they could say: Well, that only raises important questions • Perhaps you can actually be allowed to do so. But the announcement over at the Ministry was clear: it doesn't work with this proposal. That is why we asked the previous government to come up with some other proposals to ensure that all schools live up to the freedom and folk rule requirement, that children meet across, and that there is a focus on good integration. And that's why the message from SF today will be as it was in 2018 • it's actually exactly the same thing: we want negotiations to start that ensure that all schools work for good integration, and we also want to strengthen supervision. But I do not think it is enough to strengthen supervision. Because you can easily live up to the freedom and the folk rule requirement, and you can also have a school where teachers are hammering, but where there is still 100 per cent. students with non-Western background. And there's SF's opinion just that it's not healthy because there's something wrong with those kids, but because it's structure with 100 percent. children with a non-Western background do not promote integration, but we are allowing that to happen today, even state-aided. You can live in a exposed residential area where there is a majority with a non-western background and then you can go straight to your free school, and then you can go to a club afterwards, and it is state-paid that you can make those arrangements, and I think that simply counteracts integration in the vast majority of cases. So it is an independent goal for SF to have more mixed schools, both free schools and primary schools. We have already done so in today's institutions, and we are doing so in youth education. There was a former minister, a liberal minister, who was very much opposed to it, but now, at last, there is momentum again, and I look forward very much to the government putting forward a proposal which should also ensure more mixed free primary schools. That is why I am calling for rapid negotiations where we can continue the work that we started then, because children have to meet across communities, and that is what we do in the vast majority of free primary schools that do it fantastic, but there are some places where we do not do it, and we need to change that. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we fully agree with the intentions of the proposal and, if I know what Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl right, it is also the result that is the most important. I hope that this proposal can end up in a debate over in the Ministry, which will actually bring about structural change.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114249	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114250	Sir. In his speech and in his questions today, Jacob Mark has attached great importance to the fact that for SF it is very important that you get mixed people. I think we all agree here that seeing other people and interfering with other people in Danish society is good for Danish society. However, there is a difference between political action where there is talk of people with problem behaviour concentrating on what we agree with the Liberal Alliance and also thinking that political action must be taken to force people who do not have problematic behaviour, so just because we simply want those who are with the others there too, and that is why we are willing to cancel subsidies and use injunctions and bans and all sorts of things, even if they are people who do not have problem behavior. Does SF recognize that there's this distinction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114354-2	If you're going to have good integration, people have to meet across. Then we should not only take action against those people who cannot find out or who are criminals. If we are to have good integration, social classes must meet in our schools, in our day care centres, in residential areas. Together with the Liberal Alliance, even with the rapporteur as Minister, we made a ghetto package that ensured more mixed residential areas with coercion, because it is good for integration. Together with the Liberal Alliance, we made a ghetto package for the day institutions, which ensures a permanent distribution in the day institutions. That is really just what we want for the school system too. I do not know whether the rapporteur has gone away from that policy, but I think it was excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114436	I really thought I explained it very educationally when I distinguished between people who have a problem behavior or a problem background, and then people who are not characterized by any particular problems. I think that SF is going to become, in the real sense of the word, a totalitarian party when SF insists that with the power of the state people should be mixed, that is, with coercion, even if they have no problems, even if there are no particular challenges with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114511	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114512	However, if we were to follow that logic, the rapporteur, when he was a minister, should not have made the ghetto package. Because then you should have had only the criterion of crime. But there is also a criterion of non-Western origin, there are also criteria of lack of education and of unemployment. When we want that package and were part of the package that the rapporteur himself made as a minister, it is because we have to meet across, even if we are not criminals, even if we are not necessarily a problem, because it is good that people meet across. And especially when you're a kid, you're gonna have to meet across communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114542	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114545	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's statement that, of course, we in the Danish People's Party also want us to move forward and find solutions. It doesn't really matter if the mice just run around out there and we don't have anybody to catch them. So we have to work on that. The rapporteur also says that the reason why the SF cannot support this is the problems that have been raised in relation to legislation. But what actually says is that it raises important questions, yes, but if we can answer those questions, could the SF support this proposal? A supplementary question: on several occasions today we have heard the Socialists, both the Minister and the rapporteur, say that there will be a good solution, if not tomorrow at all tomorrow, I think, but next year, I heard. Could we agree to push for the ministers, the government, to come up with the solution they say they have, also within a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114646	First of all, as to whether it raises important issues in relation to the Constitution: the intention in the proposal that all schools should live up to good integration, I fully agree with it. In fact, that is also why we, together, the SF, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, said last time: let us take it over to the Ministry and make the bill in a way that is not negative discrimination, but positive, so that we actually ensure that it promotes integration. The report at that time was just a statement and I am not in government, but it was the announcement by the then government, and I also understand that it is the current government's assessment that, as the proposal stands, it is negative discrimination, and then we cannot vote for it. Then we will have to find some other ways of promoting integration into the legislation. Because we have to. We must ensure that all schools live up to good integration. Do I want to be a part of the push? Yeah. Now I'm standing next to some plexiglass. I sometimes feel it with the government as if I were knocking my head into a piece of glass to make them move faster, faster in terms of free schools, primary schools, in terms of social taximeters, in terms of minimum standards, in terms of upper secondary school distribution. Now they're a little defended by the fact that there's been a pretty bad crisis. But at least I would like to press for things to go a little faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114758	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114800	Well, that's nice to hear. It is quite true that we went to the then government, which we could not press for this proposal to be made either, and where we were actually stopped by a statement that it is not possible. That is why we need us who are not in government to push the governments that are in order to make some proposals that can actually do this in a way so that we can get it implemented as well. I'm just glad to hear that SF is on that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114827	What I think is quite frankly, the difference between the last time and now, is that Mrs Merete Riisager, with whom I had good cooperation, did not want to mix the students, did not want to solve this problem, and therefore there never came a solution. The current minister would like to solve this problem, I know, and I am convinced that we will come to negotiations to resolve this. Well, then, I hope that mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl will see to it that friends in the blue bloc are involved in such a solution, because I can be in doubt about that when I hear the debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114903	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114907	Thank you so much. The rapporteur says here that coercion leads to integration. I would just like to hear what the rapporteur is building on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520114918	I say that when children meet across communities, it promotes integration. When the director's daughter meets the son of an unskilled, it promotes integration. When the child, who has two parents who have come from Syria, meets the child who has parents who have always lived in Denmark, then it promotes integration. We have free school elections in Denmark, and we have free primary schools, and the trend is quite clear both in the field of school and in upper secondary education, that with free choice of school children, young people have the habit of lumping themselves together. If we want to change that, I think we need to create legislative structures that will make us meet across the board. There has been no desire for this from the former Minister of Education in the field of youth education and in the field of school. I think we can find a majority for that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115013	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115015	Unfortunately, I think there are too. The rapporteur said quite specifically that coercion leads to integration, and now the rapporteur is also saying: I think I would just like the rapporteur to base it on some facts that the forced distribution of good, well-functioning Danish school pupils makes integration better and whether the rapporteur really cannot put any words on whether the rapporteur really believes that the bill for decades of failed immigration policy should now be left in the nursery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115053	It is probably difficult in 30 seconds, but I can say that there is evidence that in schools where there is a high predominance of non-Western pupils, i.e. bilingual, one speaks less Danish and one also lags behind professionally. If we want to change that, we need structural changes, for example. does not provide state subsidies for clumping oneself together out in a local residential area and being 100 per cent. people of non-Western origin. It is, of course, a free choice if we want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115124	Thank you. No one else has any comments or questions. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115135	Thank you. With what should we call it, usual perseverance, the Danish People's Party once again makes a proposal to introduce a form of special legislation in relation to our free schools, a legislation which must introduce special rules for those schools in which more than half of the pupils have a foreign background, that is, special rules based unilaterally on ethnicity, so that only the fact that a majority of pupils are descendants of immigrants should legitimise discrimination in the award of state subsidies to schools. As both the Minister and now several rapporteurs have mentioned, we have dealt with a completely identical proposal back in early April 2018. It was then, as is now the view of the Enhedslisten, that it is unacceptable to discriminate against citizens on the basis of their national origin, and therefore it is also unacceptable in this particular case to discriminate against free schools in relation to the receipt of state grants based solely on the national origin of pupils. As other rapporteurs have said, we are of course also of the opinion that we should be able to make demands on our free schools. That is what we do in the legislation there is. For us, it is just quite fundamental that the rules we set should, of course, be the same for everyone. Others have also mentioned the assessment made by the Ministry of Justice when we dealt with the proposal two years ago. The minister then was careful, I remember, not to speak of an unconstitutional nature, or to say that it was something that was contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, but as others, among others. Mr. Kristian Jensen, has mentioned, so it was probably difficult to read the note from the Ministry of Justice in any other way than that one would get at odds with both the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. In relation to the Constitution, the Ministry of Justice described it as indirect discrimination. In relation to the Convention on Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice described it as unbiased discrimination. It is no wonder that the legal aspect weighs heavily on such a matter. We must not legislate in violation of the Constitution. That is why I am perhaps a little surprised that the proposal is being tabled again in the same form, since the authors of the motion are familiar with the legal assessment. I also think that the government party may have been more persistent, although this was not quite clear from either the Minister's or the rapporteur's speech that has studied the assessment by the Ministry of Justice. I think it is laudablely clear. Having said that, the obvious thing for us is that we do not legislate in breach of the basic law, but for us it is also a matter of opinion, that is, that we think it is unreasonable to make legislation based solely on the ethnicity or national background of pupils. In those words, we are also very happy to take part in a debate on the free schools. We are very happy to take part in a debate on how to ensure diversity in our schools. I think there is a need for discussion of this in many ways. I would say that this proposal is not just something that is considered to be unconstitutional and contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, but it is also a way of regulating it, which we strongly oppose in the Enhedslisten. That is why, of course, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115544	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115548	Thank you. I would like to ask if Enhedslisten does not recognise that there are challenges in this society with parallel societies. If you have an area where people of foreign origin are almost exclusively living, and there is a free school in the same area, where there may be only pupils from that area with that background, you risk supporting the construction of parallel societies, which we at least from the Danish People's Party do not want to have in Denmark. Doesn't Enhedslisten think that these relationships are a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115626	I certainly recognise that there are problems in relation to insufficient diversity both in residential areas and in our education system. We will at some point be discussing in this Chamber how we regulate admission to our high schools. There we take the view that we can regulate this through a district arrangement, not according to ethnic criteria, but primarily on the basis of socio-economic criteria, so that we draw some school districts that can ensure that we have a greater diversity in our secondary schools. In other words, we are in favour of the same both in the field of primary education and also in the field of day-to-day provision, if there is a need for it. On the other hand, we do not believe that, in relation to the free school world, we can go in and create such a district structure, because our free schools are built in a completely different way from the public schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115723	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115725	Perhaps that is precisely why it might be relevant with this proposal that we have put forward, where we are demanding the schools to prove that they do not counteract the integration of foreign pupils into Danish society. What does Enhedslisten have against doing that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115740-2	I mean, we have nothing against working for integration. I think it was Mrs. Mette Thiesen who remembered that it was Section 1 (1). 2 ▪ contains excellent descriptions of the requirements we make of our schools. There is freedom and the folk rule requirement and the requirement to measure up to the primary school. We are happy to take part in a discussion on whether we can express what we want the school to live up to, stronger, but we certainly do not want us to introduce rules that really discriminate on the basis of national origins, which we believe the proposal here proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115823	Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115825	The rapporteur concludes by saying that he and the Enhedslist are very happy to take the debates, and I think that is a very good thing. But if you look at a number of the decisions that have been taken and the agreements that have been made, for example on the ghetto package and in the public school conciliation circle, then the Enhedslisten is outside. And I am really just a little curious whether the rapporteur can see for himself that Enhedslisten will add votes to the tough integration policy that one has to understand the government coming in this way in the next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520115901	We will take a position on this when we see the proposals. However, the questioner is right to say that it may not be on the surface that proposals could be put forward which the Enhedslisten will support. But let it come to a test. As I said, we want to strengthen the diversity of our education system. Then I would say that it is true that we have not been part of the agreements on the tightening of the law on free school. We were not strictly invited to the negotiations either, so to speak. But if you read the contribution of the report that Enhedslisten has made I have even written them myself you will see that we actually place very strong emphasis on strengthening supervision, and those parts of the previous government's legislation that were about strengthening supervision, we fully agreed. On the other hand, there were uncertainties, which will probably be too detailed to take here, among others. about the interpretation of the decorum requirement, which we found very unfortunate in the legislation, and therefore we made it very clear in our report that we actually supported stronger supervision in schools. So there is no difference of opinion between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120009	Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120011	Thank you. And that really was a very clear answer. Sometimes, when you are in such debates, it may be such a very woolly answer, or there will not be an answer at all, but it was really a very clear answer. And I find that liberating, that is to say that Enhedslisten says in reality that what may come will probably have a little difficulty in looking at it, because that has traditionally been the case. But you never have to say never. But for that I have just a follow-up question, and it is a deepening of how far the understanding paper really goes. So, does the Enhedslisten see that the government can make agreements outside its parliamentary basis, that is to say with the rest of the Danish Parliament, or does the Enhedslisten see it as such that a future agreement, based on dealing with the ghetto problem, to deal with problems with parallel societies for these citizens, is in a circle with Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120105	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120106	Thank you. I'm doing what I can not to express myself woolly. If I am to illustrate where the differences can be, and what will guide our assessment of the government's proposals, then we have reported very clearly, as the Social Democratic Party in its time, along with the SF, suggested that we should have a 30-percent limit, compared to how many of a certain ethnic origins there might be in a school. Then we said unequivocally "no" that we were not in favour of it, because it had precisely an ethnic approach. If the government puts forward proposals to strengthen the way in which school districts are worked, so that, from a socio-economic point of view, some cuts can be made to ensure greater diversity in schools, we will, in turn, be positive. That is why this is about what is actually a proposal. I very much hope that the government will come forward with proposals that go in the direction I pointed out in the last half of my reply, so that we can make a good deal with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120205	Thank you. Speaking time must be observed. This applies both to rapporteurs and to questioners. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120211	Thank you. After all, the Enhedslisten voted against both the legislative proposals that tightened supervision. We also had the debates, and we did not like the decorum requirement either, but thought that all the good things came from the fact that there was more unannounced supervision and that the demand for democratic education was tightened up, overall it was worthwhile that overall it was an improvement to take care of the children who go out in the free primary schools. And it has also meant that schools are closed because they did not meet the requirements, and that would not have happened without supervision. So I just want to hear the Enhedslisten today: in retrospect, which is always wonderfully clear, would it not have been better to have been in favour of those proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120301-2	No, there was a reason why we voted against it. And decorum is such a little abstract concept: what is it now that it means? After all, it is a great deal about the behaviour, the outgoing behaviour that must be employed, and this is often mentioned in the public system, but was also invoked here. I remember asking the Minister a question at the time about what it means to tighten up the decorum requirement. I could not get an answer to that and, speaking of woolly, to me it was such a woolly answer that I did not think it was acceptable and Enhedslisten did not think it was acceptable to join. However, as I said in my reply to Mrs Mai Mercado, we were very precise in writing in our contribution to the report that we actually supported the part that was about stronger supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120403	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120404	It was more because I do not really think it has worked out that this decorum requirement has caused the major problems outside, but it may be that the rapporteur has a different opinion. So I would really like to hear: Does Enhedslisten mean that it is a problem that goes 100 per cent. students with non-Western ancestry in one school? Well, is that a problem in itself? For that is what we think is bad for integration, and that is why we are ready to change it. But the Enhedslisten doesn't want to make, for example. districts for the free primary schools, so I would really just like to know if Enhedslisten thinks it is a problem that this is the way it is out there today, even if you do not want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120437	In other words, I generally prefer schools and institutions which are characterised by diversity and the diverse composition we have in this country characterise schools and institutions. At the same time, however, I recognise that we have free school legislation that allows for something else. Well, I also think it is very good to meet with people of different religious backgrounds or lack of the same, but that is why I am not opposed to having Catholic schools anyway. So, yes, I think diversity is good, but I also think it is very good that we have free school legislation that allows schools to be formed on a different basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120516	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Then it is Mrs Hanne Bjørn-Klausen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120531	Thank you for the floor. Last week, I signed the agreement that I will abide by the Constitution. It's a pretty serious case, at least in my optics. That is why I also find it strange that the Social Democratic Party supported a proposal similar to what is being discussed today in 2018 and that they spent an entire parliamentary election campaign in 2019 telling us that they would have liked to have closed Muslim free schools, because in itself it is unconstitutional and we have freedom of religion in Denmark. Equally strange is the fact that the proposers are putting forward this proposal which is contrary to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. There is no doubt that we in the Conservative People's Party want to put an end to free schools which oppose integration in Denmark, but we must also note that not all free schools with a majority of students with a foreign background are working against integration, and that not all non-Christian schools are working against integration in Denmark either. There are schools in the border country, the French school, the Jewish school and the international school. There are many different kinds of free schools that do not work against integration. Schools receiving state subsidies must, of course, live up to running a school on a democratic basis, and the demands of the Free School Act on freedom and government are already so excellent. As a government party, we helped to tighten up the supervision of the free primary schools, and the austerity seems to be working. There are already some schools that have been deprived of state subsidies, and there are also schools that do not comply with the law that come under supervision. Something's happening. So apart from the fact that the proposal as it stands here is contrary to the Constitution, there is no reason to make another law on something that is already a law on just the difference that the existing law respects the Danish Constitution. Schools must comply with the law, so must we, and that is why we cannot support the resolution in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120732	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120735	Thank you very much for your speech and welcome in here (Hanne Bjørn-Klausen Thank you). I'm gonna have to ask you a little question. Fortunately, when the rapporteur says that there are a great many schools which do not oppose integration, that is right, and that is true of the vast majority of all the different types of schools we have in Denmark. We have also made some demands, in particular on the professional content and on the things that need to be done at school, but what we are calling for here is, in fact, a requirement for schools to prove that they do not work against integration. Could Conservatives mind that we are making the demand for schools where it would appear that there could be a risk that there would actually be no positive integration in school work? Why shouldn't we put that demand on those schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120827	So I can just ask, who's gonna point out the schools to which you're gonna ask these questions? Well, it's kind of the thing that until proven otherwise, everyone does it right. There's this supervision, and I'm confident this enhanced supervision is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120843	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120844	It is, of course, part of the proposal that we are pointing out how these schools could be designated, because they are the schools where more than half of them have foreign backgrounds. But if this is a challenge, then we have no problem with asking all the schools. If we then, in order not to make any difference, ask all schools how they ensure that they do not oppose integration, are Conservatives involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120905	I still think it is to make more bureaucracy to ask schools to answer some questions where a lot of schools are already doing it right. After all, there are schools with a majority of foreign children who are in the border country, for example. the French school. There are plenty of schools that are not Muslim schools. As long as there is no cause for concern, I do not think there is any reason to make more bureaucracy in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120939	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520120941	Thank you for a good speech, and congratulations on the first speech in here. SF and Conservatives have actually made a number of agreements together, among others. we have made an agreement on the distribution of children in day care institutions to ensure that children meet across day care institutions. We have also made the package for vulnerable residential areas, which means that we ensure that the residential areas in Denmark become more mixed. Then I wonder intuitively whether it was not time for us, as parties that have made such good agreements together, to take the next step and also to get it done for our school system, where the analysis must be the same, namely that it is bad if a school has 100 per cent. students with non-Western ancestry walking together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121030	Now we always want to talk to others, so there is nothing to prevent that. So we'd like to talk about it. What we're gonna get to, I can't stand up here and promise you right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121042	The first rapporteur's speech is very good. I'm just saying with a smile that you shouldn't say you and De (Hanne Bjørn-Klausen Oops, sorry). Yeah, so you just know, right? You have to learn. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121052	No, I know that the rapporteur cannot promise me, and that is quite okay. We're gonna have to see a play first. It was probably more just such a little preliminary statement as to whether the idea of ensuring mixed schools is a good idea, just as we have agreed on mixed day institutions together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121115	Thank you. Well, the mixed school thing is a good idea. My own children go to a Danish primary school because I like that they are mixed with others. But I do not mind that there are some who are in schools where there are most of their own, so long as they are still being taught democracy and freedom and all these things. I do not think that we should have a problem with this until it is a major problem. I can only agree; I think we should also go out and meet everyone else. But I'm not here for all of us to meet all sorts of other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121157	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121200	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and welcome to it. I think I need to continue a little along the same lines as my colleague Mr. Jacob Mark, because I agree that there should be no problem with things that are not a problem. However, I was in fact of the opinion that the Conservative People's Party believes that it is a definition to have mixed day institutions. Can the rapporteur then say a few words about why it should not be important in the public schools? What is the difference in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121249	But I am not saying that it is not important that I say that we also want to talk about it. I'm just saying that I can easily understand that there is the French School, the Jewish School. Well, it's a little bit to say that they can't be there either. There are some places where I don't see it's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121304	Then it's mr. Jens Joel again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121305	Well, well, we are politicians because we have to deal with the problems that are out there in society, and when we identify a polarisation in society and a tendency for there to be some places where we like to see a very biased pupil composition, then we think it is a problem. And that is really why we in the Socialist Group have said that we are going to make a bid for this. It is true what the Conservative rapporteur says, namely that it is not a problem everywhere. But it is actually a little important whether you think it is in itself a gain to get to know each other across, or whether you subscribe to the view that as long as you are not a criminal or do not discuss anti-democratic things at school, it is not a problem that you do not meet each other across. So, with respect for the fact that the rapporteur himself has children in a school, because the rapporteur thinks it is important to meet one another across, could it not be said that this is actually what we want to do in schools? In other words, I simply wonder whether the rapporteur thinks it is a gain to meet across and get to know each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121412	It is always a win to meet across, but it is not the same as saying that I will make rules that there are some schools that are not allowed to have a special group. Again: Shall we say that the Jewish school must not exist? I fully understand that there are challenges with Muslim schools in some places, but, again, there are also plenty of well-functioning Muslims. We must ensure good integration. Again: We want to talk about it and something like that, and it may well be that we can come up with something. I just don't want to stand up here and say that there are some schools that can't exist anymore because of all this and that's kind of what I hear the questioner say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121500	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121517	Denmark is a lovely country. It is a country that, generations before us, has built on good, solid values. It is a country and a society in which we care about each other and in which we are helped to ensure that all children receive a good basic education. The Danes pay through the tax that their children can be educated and formed in either Danish primary schools, free schools or private schools; are educated and formed into a society based on good, solid values such as freedom, democracy and gender equality. It is part of the Danish people's soul and the basis of Danish society as a whole. Islam is in opposition to all of this. Islam is in opposition to freedom, Islam is in opposition to democracy, Islam is in opposition to gender equality. The more space you give Islam in society, the less room there will be for democracy, freedom and equality. In New Citizens we say clearly that Islam should have no influence in Denmark. Of course, the Danish tax crowns should not go to finance Muslim free schools based on values that are contrary to everything that is Danish. Muslim free schools should have no support whatsoever, Islam should have no influence in Denmark, integration is a personal responsibility, not a state task. And that is why we also want Muslim free schools, schools based on Islamic values, to be totally cut off from everything called public subsidies. Because they do not train children for Denmark, they educate children for Islam, and of course Danish treasure crowns should never support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121730	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121733	Now I'm a little new in traffic compared to New Citizen's politics down here in the Chamber, so I'm gonna try a little bit. But what will immediately be the consequence of the rapporteur's proposal will be that religions will be discriminated against. That is my first question, and it will then be a breach of the basic law, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. I usually have the impression that New Citizens care a lot about the country of origin and about the constitution. So I just need to confirm that New Citizens are ready to break the Constitution in order to achieve what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121814	This doesn't have to break the Constitution at all. So, in Paragraph 70, it says precisely that it is based on a creed, and Islam is an ideology. There are so many parts of Islam. There is political ideology and so on, and it is these values and what lies in the ideology that are contrary to both what I mentioned before with freedom, democracy and gender equality. Then there's section 76. So, it doesn't say in the Constitution that all free schools are entitled to this state grant in any form or in any respect, and we just have to conclude: Muslim free schools work against the very, very fine values and principles that we have in Denmark, and the Danes must of course not pay for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121859	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121901	I'm not a lawyer myself, and I'm a layman, I'm a politician, a bachelor in journalism, so I really need lawyers to judge if anything is against the Constitution, and the announcement here is clear: it will be a breach of the Constitution. I do not know whether Mrs Mette Thiesen has become a lawyer over the night, but that is one part. The second part is that many of these schools don't say they're Muslim free schools. Well, they won't call themselves that. They've only got 100 percent. children with non-Western ancestry. So even if you did, Mrs Thiesen says you have to do, say you have to close schools based on that set of values, then you won't hit them all. Because they don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121939	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520121940	I have some doubts as to exactly what is in the question. I mean, what is so in the main focus here is that no state subsidy is being given. Danish treasure crowns should not, of course, go to support Islam. They are doing so today, and that must be completely shut down. But we must be honest and say that we are also tabling an amendment in which we make it clear here that it is Muslim free schools, in other words schools, that are based on Islamic values that this is going to affect. Because it's not about the Jewish school, it's not about others. Well, this is specifically about Muslim free schools, and it's something about addressing the problem where it is, and it's the Muslim free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122018	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments or questions. The next one is sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122026	Thank you. I really think that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party has opened up an exciting debate which reveals some divisions. I was just talking to Mr. Jens Joel about it in the soft chairs, and now I'm going to try to reproduce where it is, I mean this discussion is, and what dividing lines it shows for Danish politics. I find it so that in the Folketing, from the extreme left to the extreme right or from the most socialist to the most liberal, there is agreement that it is a good thing for a society if people across religious, social and other divisions meet naturally and get to know each other, and that in this way they create a cohesion in Danish society that can benefit from in all possible contexts. I do not think there is any disagreement about that in the Folketing; we all think that is a good thing. However, when we say that where people have problematic ways of living, we, as a state and as a society, have to take steps to ensure that the problems do not go wrong, that they do not reinforce each other, that concentration does not increase the problems, and that was the reason for the parallel social agreement that I was part of entering into with the parties of the Folketing. Where you have ghettos, which are characterized by both a large proportion of citizens with a high level of crime, a large proportion of people who are on transfer income instead of being in work, a large proportion of people who have no other education than primary school and have a low income, etc. So we had to do something about that, and we did something about it, with the most effective proposal that Parliament has ever adopted in dealing with ghettos and parallel societies. In fact, it is so effective that we can expect that we will not have ghettos at all; if not too many years there will not be ghettos at all, as the definition we have today is. There won't be ghettos in Denmark at all. No previous governments have managed to do so. We were able to do so in cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties. Then there is the second approach. Where one is about us having to deal with the problems, there is the other approach, which is represented by among others. Mr. Jacob Mark and possibly also the Social Democracy, that is, that even where people do not have problems, we must also, with the violence and power of the state, spread them and get them mixed up and all sorts of things. There I just think that we are assuming powers which I think are illegitimate. In other words, it is illegitimate to want people to interfere in certain ways, if things work well in the way it now works, and yet to insist that you want to take subsidies away from people, and that you want to place people from one school over there, etc., because, although there are no problems associated with the people and the way they live, you just think that society looks better if people interfere more. I cannot understand why any human being can think that it is okay in that way to hound around people who do not pose a problem in Danish society. That is why I would also like to say on this motion for a resolution which imposes more than 50% on all free schools. pupils with a foreign background, that they have to prove that they comply with the provisions of the primary school law, that they are formed for freedom and folk rule, that we will vote against it because we are really satisfied with the way it works today. If the Education and Quality Board finds a basis for more stringent supervision of these schools, then it is done, and if there are very problematic things going on in those schools, they will be deprived of the public subsidy. I think that's the way to do it. If there are problems, you step in instead of having an ambition to subject all people, regardless of the fact that they do not pose a problem for Danish society, some difficulties or demands that they interfere with other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122534	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122538	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm gonna get it, sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance. Although one speaks a lot about the fact that it can be an advantage and good to meet across and something like that, it is not a problem in the optics of the Liberal Alliance if one has some schools at one end of the city, where all people have very high household income and where parents have very long education, and that at the other end of the city one has the opposite, namely high unemployment and low household income, and not a particularly educationally strong background for parents and something like that. But as long as they do not cause problems, there is no reason why we are politically trying to confuse these groups and create understanding across the board. Then I would like to hear how to define and who defines what a problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122629	Well, you have to do that, each one of you, and you have to make decisions about that as a party and as a parliament. And we have done so when, for example, we do so. have defined certain criteria as problems which allow a residential area to become a ghetto. And there I think the most central are the old ghetto criteria which apply if an excessive proportion is convicted of crime, if too large a share is not in work but is on transfer income, and if a very large proportion has a different ethnic background from Danish. The combination of problems offers the possibility that such an area can develop into a parallel society, where you make your own world, which has its own standards that you live under there, and which is in conflict with the surrounding society, because you have an experience of: Here we are, and those over there in the areas where you are Danish, are some others; that is to say, they are a us and dem-mentality. So that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122730	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122731	Yes, well, I agree that it is problematic if you do not live up to the laws of society. And that is why it is of course a problem if, for example, there is a problem. is very large representation of criminals who have been convicted. I can easily recognize that. But I also think it is important for the Social Democrats to say that living in different worlds, having a lack of understanding for each other and not getting to know each other across is something that can easily be done without the involvement of crime. In other words, you can easily see fragmentation; unfortunately, there are also many societies where there is much greater fragmentation than in Danish society. Then Mr. Ole Birk Olesen not that what we have in Denmark, the understanding that we have of each other across, and perhaps the acceptance that we pay a relatively high tax to a common society, even though I know it is less in the Liberal Alliance, also requires that you feel a cohesion across social groups, whether there is talk of crime or ethnic origin or something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122830	I think it's a good thing people meet each other. Just take my own life: I grew up on a farm in South Jutland and went in a class all the way up through primary school where there was not a single academic child. Was that a problem? No, it wasn't. My own children grow up in Copenhagen and go into classes where there are full of academic children. Is that a problem? No, that's not a problem either. It is only if there is a culture in that family which is problematic that it is a problem that that culture is not challenged by people with non-problematic cultures. It is not a problem that academics are in one place and that craftsmen are somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122918	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520122920	Thank you. We are very concerned that people meet across cultures and walks of life, and we are particularly concerned that children meet because it is in the years they are formed and they benefit from meeting each other. That is why we think it is a pity about institutions in which, for example, there are institutions. Going 100 percent. children of non-Western origin. You can also see that in those institutions and schools the language is not going as well and that they do not get the same networks as they would get elsewhere. That's why we made a package together with the Liberal Alliance, among other things. on the day offers, where they said that max. 30% of the children in a day-care institution must be of non-western origin or must come from these vulnerable residential areas. Why is the rapporteur opposed to putting the same principle on the school system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123018	Well, I can't force Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark to understand. Now I have said many times that I distinguish between when people gather in cultures that pose a problem for Danish society and when people gather on the basis of cultures that do not pose problems in Danish society. That is why the addition, which Mr. Jacob Mark included in his question that it was a question of children from the vulnerable. These were problem areas where a multitude of problems are assembled and if these children from the areas with major problems go into institution with other children who also come from the areas with major problems, then this concentration of problems can lead to increased problems. It is not linked to ethnicity alone, even though ethnicity plays a role, and if it is about children from vulnerable residential areas that you want to prevent from gathering in individual schools, then we are also open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123126	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123127	I think that is something wiser, because, as the rapporteur says, it is a criterion for vulnerable residential areas, whether they are of Western origin or not. We do not want, and that is why it is a criterion that you crawl together when you are of non-Western origin. So what I really wanted to ask was that if you put the exact same criteria down on our school system in relation to distribution that you have put down over the ghetto package and day care institutions, then the Liberal Alliance would like to share in distributing and making such a mix of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123202	If it is a question of children from vulnerable residential areas, who today must not exceed a certain percentage in day care institutions, nor must they exceed a certain percentage in schools, then we are open to it. If this is about ethnicity alone, I do not think ethnicity in itself is a challenge, but if ethnicity is linked to the fact that there is also too high a proportion of people who are not in work and too high a proportion of people who have committed crime, then it is very often linked to a major problem that we should address.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123246	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123300	Thank you for a good debate. When I came down here today, I had a hope that there was more support for this proposal than when we were here two years ago. I have to say that, after today's debate, I have less support, and I think that is very, very strange. We started today with the Minister, on the one hand, and the Social Democrat rapporteur, who very clearly described with awful many words, as the Social Democrats often do, all the issues that are involved in this. There is recognition that there are a great many problems here, that we also have to do something and that we will come up with a solution not tomorrow, but next year. Next year, something's coming. Now we've waited a year and we haven't seen anything. Anything coming next year? Well, I get memories of Arne, who is also waiting for a solution. I don't know. Is it coming? Is it coming before or after this? It gives such a strange feeling that we have to listen to a whole lot, but nothing happens. There were several rapporteurs who also tried to challenge the Social Democrats that for approx. Two years ago, when we were discussing exactly the same motion for a resolution, the Social Democrat rapporteur Mr. Mattias Tesfaye on this platform and finished his rapporteur's speech by saying: we support this proposal. So you could say that, okay, that was two years ago. Something significant must have happened that makes you change your mind, but we have certainly not been able to find out. The Socialists were asked today whether there is any justification, whether something new has happened, whether you have new knowledge, whether there is something that makes you have a different opinion today than you had two years ago. The closest I think I have come is that the Social Democrat rapporteur says that there is no majority in favour of this proposal and that is why we are not voting in favour. That, of course, is also some kind of justification, that is to say that you have no position, but that you simply point out what can be passed and what cannot be passed through and then do not support it when there is a majority against it. So my conclusion today is that I hear a broad consensus that there is a problem that needs to be addressed, and I actually hear a consensus that there should be evidence in schools in general that there is no obstacle to the integration of pupils. It was up to itself to make that demand, but it is obviously difficult to get it implemented. So what I can promise is, of course, that we in the Danish People's Party will follow up on this, because of course we want something to happen, as has also been said, and we really do not just want this marking. That is not what this is about; it is about making some changes and, for that matter, getting some mice caught when there has been talk in the past about cats that could not catch mice and cats that could catch mice. This should be a cat that could catch the mice that cause problems in this, so we can ensure that the schools work, that the schools actually deliver what they have to and that the schools that don't can be closed down. So this is really my collection of the debate. I will not go in and discuss the substance itself, because we have discussed this during the debate. In the Danish People's Party, we think that this proposal can be made in a way that respects the rules and the legislation that is there. That was the discussion when we had it in the Chamber last time. There we sat with a government that did not really help us move forward. The Social Democrats say today that they want to help us move forward, and we must then challenge them that something is now going to happen so that, after all, we can move forward, because that is what this is all about. It's about grabbing these schools, and it's about making something happen. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123658	Thank you. Then there's some questioners, and first it's sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123703	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate on an important subject, which I hope we can move forward with soon. As far as I remember, the Danish People's Party was not included in the agreement on the distribution of children in day care institutions. I remember it as if it were with the argument that you would not be involved in the spread of children, and that is, in fact, a little the same argument that New Citizens have. I am of the opinion that it would be good for schools where children from different walks of life meet, so will the model mentioned by the Social Democratic Party, which the SF has mentioned a little today, be something in which the Danish People's Party can see itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123752	I mean, as I remember it and now we're not in that deal, and I wasn't even in the negotiations about that • it was all about that we didn't just want to push people around. We will have a bit of the same discussion when we are about to talk about the upper secondary school area and other areas: how we get it done in a way, so that we get a distribution, without actually destroying anything else. How exactly we're going to do that, I don't have an answer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123824	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123826	An effective route to e.g. to achieve the goal that you don't even have free schools where it goes 50 per cent. children with non-Western origins, or where there are fewer, because the school can continue, but hopefully the pupil's mass will be mixed, is of course to put exactly the same principles down on the free primary schools as you, for example. I have to say that I am not in a position to say that I am in a position to say that I am not in a position to say that I am in a position to say that I am not in a position to do so. Will the Danish People's Party help to make such demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123858	Well, we don't agree to demand that you just split up the kids. We would like to take initiatives such as: The ghetto effort that makes you get motivation created and that you get people moved around, so there's a mix. But making a firm demand that people should be moved around and that this is something we control from in here is not a road we think you should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123919	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520123922	Thank you. And thank you for today's debate. I'm just a little confused here at the end, because I actually thought that, like, I think, with mr. Jacob Mark is that what we are discussing here is how we ensure that we do not have any schools where the composition of pupils is quite crooked and other schools where it is not. But how do we prevent it from getting all wrong? I guess we can't avoid that without actually mixing the students in the schools. It was my view that this was what the Danish People's Party wanted to achieve with this proposal, i.e. that you do not have schools where a very large part of the pupils have different ethnic background, for example, but that they are mixed. Now I cannot find out whether that is actually what the rapporteur wants. Is it the wish of the Danish People's Party that we have mixed schools or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124014	But the result is, of course, that we will have more mixed schools if we get this through. What this is all about is grabbing the schools that are not doing well enough so that we can take them out of the grant and thus close them down. And it is true that those who then go there will try to go elsewhere, and that is why it is also an important discussion how we move forward in relation to the various discussions that are, both in high school and also in primary school for that matter. How much is district talk, how much is talk about moving people one way or another? This is an important discussion; it is not the one we have had today. It has actually been how we get hold of these schools, where there is a very large proportion of pupils with a foreign background who are in danger of causing some problems, and that is one of the problems we will then tackle with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124102	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124103	I'm not gonna go into that discussion. The rapporteur also put a few words in my mouth just now, but I can say that what is important for social democracy is in fact that we get this challenge solved and that we ensure that we have schools of mixed composition. We think we have a better idea of this than this proposal, where the rapporteur himself is now saying that if it gets through, some schools will be closed down and the problem will simply move to the surrounding schools. So will the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party go constructively into that discussion about solving that problem and ensuring that we actually have mixed schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124142	Well, we are always constructively involved in solving the problems that we can see there, and this is aimed at some of the schools where we know and so there is broad agreement in this regard that there are major problems. And yes, if the Socialists want to inform us of their proposals, which we have heard about today will come sometime, then it would be very nice so that we could move on. Because if you have found a solution that actually both solves the challenge that we see and does it in a way that you can also join in, then it would be really, really nice. We will look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124214	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124217	The debate here today has shown that the Social Democrats today believe that the proposal is contrary to human rights. I just want to know if the rapporteur can tell me whether there has been any change whatsoever in the substance of the proposal in relation to what was the Danish People's Party's proposal in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124245	I can inform you, sir. Kristian Jensen says that the only difference in this proposal is that we have written a quote from the Social Democrat rapporteur who said in 2018 that he supported this proposal. That's the only difference. Otherwise, words to other words are the same as we did at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124302	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124303	Thank you for your answer. This simply confirms to me that the only thing that has happened in relation to the position of the Social Democratic Party here is that at that time they were in opposition and in the search for votes and today they are in government and do not have the same easy approach to law as they would then have. I would like to hear what the proposers intend to do in order to resolve this in a different way from what we have seen. For now, under both the previous government and under that government, the proposers have put forward the proposal and have not received a majority. Will the proposers, together with the Left and other parties, try to find other solutions to combat the problem that we have too many schools that do not meet the standards in terms of democracy, freedom and human vision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124349	Well, we want to enter into any debate constructively, and I am hearing today that there is agreement that there are some issues here. We are happy to go with all the parties that may be there. I can't wait for the Social Democrats to live up to what they have promised us today that they will come up with a solution that the rest of us can then look at. But until they do, I would really like to help see if we can adjust this so that we can actually do it in a form, so that the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance will also be able to join in. Then we can use that part to push the government if the government can't figure out how to come up with anything of its own.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520124428	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 1 p.m., where there is an urgent request.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130020	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 May 2020. We need a little quiet in the Chamber, as we have started again. Thank you. First of all, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the draftsman of the opinion of the questioners, on grounds of urgency. Here you go. And it's from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130116	Thank you. Here we go. Parallel societies, social control, handshakes, scarves, halal, Sharia law, gender-separated swimming pools, group rapes, gang crime, VAT fraud, social fraud, driving madness, unrest, harassment, insecurity, violence, terrorism, etc. etc. This is all the result of massive immigration and something that we have to deal with on a daily basis at many different levels. To this long line I can then add a higher incidence of covid-19, for immigrants across a broad spectrum cannot or will not comply with the guidelines of the authorities, so they are clearly over-represented in the statistics of infected people with covid-19. It's not a coincidence. Again we stand here and spend our time on immigrants, so the people who, as a starting point, are guests in the country, but who unfortunately in many cases have a behavior that shows that they do not regard themselves as guests, but as masters with their own rules and standards. It's sad! Immigration has simply changed Denmark forever. And no, I must say to the Minister in this area, it is not just about them being bus drivers or not being able to speak or understand a proper Danish, or that they are over-represented in the covid-19 statistics; it is even more about them, for example. do not inform themselves through the media, the TV Newspaper and other things that they do not listen to the Danish health authorities and that they do not feel as part of Danish society, because the heart and dreams are still in their country of origin. I'm really sorry to say this, but that's the way it is. I'd have liked to see something else, but it's just not like that. We can Motivate everything we want, explain it with bad Danish knowledge, claim that it is due to socio-economic conditions, all manner of outside talk, but every single time we miss the dial. Immigration and subsequent integration have failed completely, and the Danish People's Party has warned against this over the last 25 years. Parallel societies are more intact than before and are growing as immigrants increase. The increased incidence of covid-19 adds just one more thing to the immigration challenges, and the question today is: what does the Minister and the government intend to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130401	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130413	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. I would like to start by saying that things are going well. There's fewer people in the hospital. There's fewer people in the ventilator. More people are being tested. There are more jobs opening up. There is a hugely responsible population in this country, both Danes and immigrants, and this applies throughout the country. This is the framework in which we are discussing, namely that it is actually going so well to deal with covid-19 in Denmark. Having said that, however, we must of course take it seriously when we see a high spread of infection among immigrants, especially in the Copenhagen area. An analysis by the Statens Serum Institute recently showed that non-western immigrants and descendants' share of the infected in Denmark is twice as large as their share of the population. The State Serum Institute doesn't have the answers to what this difference is due to. The report states, among other things, that this may be due to the fact that more immigrants live together on smaller occasions, and that they do more jobs where they have contact with other citizens and do not have the opportunity to work from home. It also gives itself that everything else equal is easier to isolate if you live two adults and two children in a parcel house with trampoline in the garden than if you live five people on the sixth floor in an apartment in Brøndby. It is also harder to protect yourself if you work as a bus driver or a sosu assistant or you have a job where you get close to many people than if you can sit at home in the kitchen with your laptop and be a civil servant. There are probably also some who do not speak very well Danish and therefore do not have the same opportunities to follow the recommendations that come from the authorities. Of course, it is not an excuse that you do not speak Danish when you live in Denmark, but it can be an explanation. That is why, before the report of the Statens Serum Institute, the government launched an information campaign targeted citizens with poor Danish knowledge, including in vulnerable residential areas, in order to combat the infection chains, just as we have launched an information campaign with good advice on how to keep ramadan, taking into account the limitation of covid-19 infection. Today I am glad that we have launched these campaigns, even long before we got these figures. However, we must also note that, unfortunately, some people are completely indifferent to authorities and to other people who have not shown socialism. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples of this in the media. I myself was quite provoked when I saw people gathering to prayer in a parking lot and almost demonstratively show that they were not going to comply with the ban on assembly. Of course, the police focus is on being visible and making targeted efforts to ensure consistent enforcement of the rules on the ban on assembly. This also applies in the more vulnerable residential areas. Unfortunately, there was a specific reason why in the incident I mentioned, from Aarhus West recently, there was no visit by the police. It's a shame, of course, but I find it hard to blame the police for that. Both Danes and immigrants have an independent responsibility for following government guidelines and helping to reduce the infection as much as possible. I would even say that people who are particularly vulnerable must pay particular attention and make extra efforts to comply with the recommendations. I myself have also appealed to all of us who live in municipalities where there are too many people infected, including those who have been infected. In the western part of Copenhagen, this takes seriously. After all, it is our own family members and neighbors and acquaintances who are at risk of being hit. On the basis of the report from the Statens Serum Institute, the government has also strengthened the information efforts in the vulnerable residential areas, and we have decided to also think the practitioners into the efforts and thus get an increased focus on testing patients with a different ethnic background. Then yesterday we had a dialogue with organisations in the labour market about what can be done in jobs where there is a lot of contact with customers, citizens and colleagues and where there are many employees with a non-western background. My opinion was that those organisations were positive about conveying the message, but that they actually also had a desire to get a bit deeper into what might be the reasons why we see these figures. In the same way, of course, the police will continue the work of enforcing the ban on assembly. I will conclude by saying that I myself was not surprised when I saw the report of the Statens Serum Institute and, of course, we should take those figures seriously. But I would also like to say that I am fundamentally optimistic. I believe that the levels of infection we are currently seeing in Denmark should make us optimists. We must be careful, we must have a controlled opening, but it is not out of control in Denmark and the small anti-social minority, which among other things. Some media stories have shown a complete disregard for the rules, should not spoil the common efforts. So we're gonna win this together... separately. I want these to be my last words. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130917	Thank you. So one brief comment can now be made to the Minister, but only by the rapporteurs of the parties. And I can see that sir... Marcus Knuth would like a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130929	Thank you, Minister. And it's fine with these information campaigns and the efforts that are being made to make people aware of the danger of infection. But the Minister was out in B.T., as I remember, saying that the Minister was furious about joint prayer and some of the other serious breaches of the ban on the assembly, which can certainly also contribute to spreading the infection. So what has the Minister done about it since the Minister was so furious, apart from an information campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520130959	I want to start by saying that I am not furious... it must be on the account of the journalist. But I was quite provoked when I saw the pictures because there are many people who suffer deprivation in these weeks; confirmations that are cancelled, afterschool stays that are interrupted. And then you see people so openly breaking the ban on assembly. I find that extremely provocative. And I am sure that we can get very far with information and with recommendations and with calls to follow the recommendations of the authorities, but we must also just acknowledge that, and it can't really surprise anyone in this matter, I would say that there are some people who don't give a damn about showing a social mind and responding to those calls. And there it is the block of fines and the police and blue blinks that have to get going, and fortunately so are they. I believe that the majority can be reached with an appeal, and that is both the majority of Danes and immigrants. In fact, I believe that the behaviour of the people shows that most of us are able to live up to a good recommendation, and then there is just that minority, and they must have with the hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131058	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131059	I haven't. Well, I haven't seen all those blue blinks, and I don't know what. On the contrary, I think that there is a terrible fear of contact with people in the parallel society, and I think that is one of the reasons for this. that this debate should call for or force an end to it; it simply does not work. And I am a little puzzled when the Minister is giving his very, very short speech, because the Minister has longer speaking time than the one he used to do that, I might just as well figure out, but then we'll have to use it. We are doing something like extravagance again, like what the Minister put on Facebook after the Minister got the figures, perhaps a little before the rest of us, i.e. that it was all sorts of different circumstances than that there are some parallel societies that do not give a damn about rules that the rest of us have to conform to. I think the Minister should address that, because that is the way it is, and that is why we have this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131157	I would like to start by saying that I have no separate desire to make long speeches. It is usually the case that the shorter a speech you make, the more you are told. Nor is it my view that the police have the fear of touching, for example. to hand out fines in vulnerable residential areas or to patrol in areas where there are many immigrants. I certainly do not have any information on this, on the contrary, I know that the police have been out, both in some of these residential areas and in some of the municipalities where there are many immigrants. Then I also agree with the Danish People's Party that you can't reduce the causes of these numbers to just social matters; it's not just about how people live or how they work. But I would also like to appeal to the Danish People's Party to recognise that this is also the issue. Of course there are cultural reasons too, but I think that the Danish People's Party must recognise that it also has social reasons, of course. Of course, a sosu assistant is more likely to be infected than a djøf'er at home in the kitchen does. And when we know that there are more immigrants who are sosu assistants, we can add two and two together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131307	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131308	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I just want to hear the Minister: how long did it take, from Denmark shut down, until these information campaigns were launched in the socially vulnerable residential areas? And then I would like to hear the Minister in relation to the translation of the guidelines of the Danish Health Service: how long did it take, and was it the government itself that led that initiative, or was it some private organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131335	I can't put on days, but maybe I can find out when I get back on the platform. There were a number of private organisations that had started translating some of the material, and there the Housing Minister and I decided that it was also a natural authority task, and that is why, in cooperation with some private organisations and the Housing Society's National Association, we have done everything we could to translate the guidelines of the police and the Health Authority in particular and spread it to the vulnerable residential areas. I do not remember the date; I would very much like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131414	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131417	Thank you. I would like to follow up Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's question. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard mentions that there is a fear of touch in relation to these parallel societies, and now I do not know if I heard the Minister correctly, but was the Minister standing right on the floor of the Parliament and saying that the Minister did not share the view that there was a fear of contact on the part of the authorities in relation to these parallel societies? Is it really the government's view that the authorities have not and have not had the fear of contact with these parallel societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131447	I would like to start by saying that there is a difference between whether you have and whether you have had. However, if we are talking about whether the police have the fear of patrolling and enforcing the law in vulnerable residential areas, it is my clear opinion that the police do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131505	We thank the Minister. Now we are embarking on the debate itself, and I would point out that it is an urgent question where two hours have been set aside. So that means we're gonna end around 8:00. I shall do what I can to give all the rapporteurs the opportunity to speak. The first to speak is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520131530	Thank you. Well, it went just as I expected. I would probably have expected a little longer and a slightly more elaborate speech from the Minister, but that is the way it is. Then the rest of us, as I say, must go a little more to it. One can be concerned, one can want action and one can address the cause etc. etc. But what we in the Danish People's Party want with this question is that it results in a very, very strong call for this to end. It's just not gonna work. And I must say that I know very well because it is always said to me that there are also Danes who gather; that has also been seen. But there we also see that the police are taking action and handing out fines. It is not done in the same way in parallel societies. And there must be something that does not take action; something that approaches what one considers to be anguish of touch. The Socialist Government, with its red support parties, has also expressed concern about the increased infection in the immigrant environments, because that is something that we know to the electorate. But, of course, you have all sorts of extravagances which go on to say that it is immediately logical explanations that have led to this over-representation, and not to say that in general they do not just comply with the guidelines that the possibilities offer; no, it is a question of carrying out the major tasks, for example. in the care sector and in public transport, etc. etc.; it is not that they are not just listening to the Danish authorities and have not, moreover, stamped into the standards, rules and values of Danish society, and that parallel society is as massive as it actually is. The infection in the immigrant environment is much higher than among ethnic Danes, and it can come as no surprise to the Minister it has not come either. Because at so many other levels the distinctive immigrant parallel societies are so well developed that the information of the Danish authorities does not penetrate the medium-eastern and North African thick walls and mentality of the ghetto. The consequences of the parallel societies of the immigrant environment are fatal to Danish society, not only in connection with the covid-19, but also in relation to the social, economic, cohesion, crime, social benefits, the health system, unemployment statistics, etc. etc. Immigration affects Denmark in a negative direction. There is nothing positive about immigration. I am not talking about the individual immigrant, but immigration as such is a huge burden and has been so for many years for Danish society. This is a development we have been used to over the last 50 years, and it does not look better than before. It just continues with more parallel societies, more division and more insecurity. Immigrants across a broad comb cannot be integrated. Their culture is so strong and their social control is so massive. And no, you are not integrated simply because you have a job and you do not commit crime. We, on the other hand, bend off in all our well-meaning goodness and hospitality and offer essential values to make our so-called guests feel as comfortable as possible. And yes, this question is about the spread of infection, which is also, I can say, like so many other sad statistics, over-represented in the immigrant environments. I just have to say that I have actually seen for myself how this is going on. If you dare to move out northwest around Nørrebro, you can see gang criminals at Blågårds Plads That's what I call touch anxiety, and I actually get it, because the police aren't enough. It's no good for a single patrol car with two nice cops in it. There must be much, much harder action when there are 25 gang criminals who puff themselves up when there is a police car driving by. At Nørrebros Runddel, the Roma are sitting in large circles with their stolen goods; in the bazaars there are no rules, and that is what we have to do today in relation to this request. We can't accept it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132009	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Stoklund. I should just like to hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: was there a proposal for adoption? Yeah, we're gonna grab that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132027	Thank you for your kindness. Yes, I have a proposal for adoption, and I am making it on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, despite information from health authorities, non-western citizens are over-represented in the covid-19 statistics. It is noted that there have been groups in parallel communities who have deliberately broken the ban on assembly, for example. by common prayer. Parliament calls on the government to ensure the necessary enforcement of the law, including with regard to non-Western citizens. • V 67).
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132102	Thank you. That will now be part of the further debate, and then we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Stoklund. Like the rapporteur, I would like to say that there is a four-minute speaking time, but that we do not have a four-minute button up here, which is why the button will first light up 1 minute and then 3 minutes. So nobody gets cheated, but it's just so you don't get confused by it. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132120	Thank you. A few weeks ago, the State's Serum Institute reported that non-western immigrants account for 18%. of the infected with covid-19. At the same time, the group is only 9%. of the population. So there is a strong over-representation. We do not know the precise causes of the ethnic battles in the infection figures, nor do the Statens Serum Institute, but we do know that social and economic conditions are important for people's lives and cultural conditions. When people live close together in housing blocks, working in a profession where they are in close contact with other people, driving by bus at work instead of sitting in their own car, they are more exposed to being infected with covid-19 than is the case for others. However, regardless of what might explain the ethnic side of the infection, the figures are worrying. That is why I think it is good that the Danish People's Party has called for this urgent request. For everything cannot be explained by social and economic conditions. There is also an independent responsibility. Minorities in Denmark have a responsibility to learn the Danish language, a responsibility to inform themselves when the government and the authorities hold press meetings, and subsequently, of course, a responsibility to comply with the instructions. Fortunately, most people with a non-Western background do, and that is a good thing, but unfortunately we have seen several examples of groups with a non-Western background that have not taken that responsibility upon themselves. In Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen, water pipe cafés have kept open despite orders to keep closed. At a funeral in a Muslim burial ground in Aarhus, hundreds of people were packed. Anyone who saw pictures from that event could see that people were too close. A few weeks earlier it was at a Muslim burial ground in Brøndby, where about 100 people attended a funeral and stood very close to each other. We have witnessed 30 Muslims gathering in common prayer in Gellerup. They stood closely together during the whole prayer... it was clear in the pictures... and thus they violated not only the ban on assembly, but also the requirement of distance. The pictures and examples are very provocative to me. Those portrayed in the pictures expose both themselves and the rest of us to an increased risk because of their behavior. Now I would like to read out the Social Democrats' proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has launched a series of initiatives to provide information on guidelines on covid-19 in the population as a whole and among ethnic minorities separately. The government calls for all citizens of Danish society to take independent responsibility for following government guidelines and helping to reduce the infection. • V 68). And I should have said that this is not just the Social Democrat proposal. These are also the proposals of the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132352	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. Now there are so brief comments, and now we are back to the old rules with two short remarks in first 1 minute and then 1⁄2 minute. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132401	Thank you for the contribution of the Socialists. I think that both the Minister and the Social Democrats' rapporteur are somewhat backwards compared to the fact that, as we have seen in recent times, there are more infected with covid-19 among non-western immigrants, first and foremost Muslims in Denmark. And this is probably due to it shows all the available knowledge about it that one is very much not interested in complying with the distance requirements that Danish society has set against all of us. And it creates an unfortunate impression if the police and the authorities do not enforce it against people who do not want to follow those distance demands. We have seen over the past few days that a number of people have been fined around in connection with football matches and various events, but when it comes to a prayer meeting in Aarhus, the police unfortunately cannot get there because the car has collapsed. Does the rapporteur think this is a good thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132512	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132514	To the end, I would say: No, of course that is not good, and the Aarhus police have also regretted and expressed regret about that. But I do not think it is right to claim that the Minister and I are taking this backwards. I just think we should stick to the fact that it is more nuanced than that. As I know, the figures from the CDC show, for example, that it is in the Capital Region that there is an over-representation. We certainly do not see it for the time being in other parts of the country. In addition, if you look at nationalities, you should also think that there was an over-representation among Syrians on the basis of the logic adopted by the rapporteur, but there are not yet fewer people who have been infected. However, that does not change the fact that I fully acknowledge this, and I also said in my speech that there are more problems in this, and I also believe that there is a cultural problem, that there is a group of these non-Western citizens who do not take this seriously enough and who do not give instructions from the authorities. And there were probably more people here who had to turn off the dish and instead turn on the TV newspaper and listen to the guidelines that come to the press meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132620	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132621	Okay, then we're in agreement. So I just ask: what is being done by the Socialists to deal with these things? Because we have some people out in the very country that say to us: Try to hear, we're being held in our ears, we have to keep these things. At the same time, we can see that there are gang members driving to Sweden and going to the gym and pretending to be nothing; there are funeral processions where no one is taking action against non-compliance with the distance requirements; we have a prayer meeting in Aarhus where the police car crashes. Can the Socialists not see that we have a problem and that we also have a problem of explanation to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132703	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132704	I find it difficult to say so clearly here because we are in a new situation, and my impression is that the police are taking this seriously. It is not my impression that the police make a differentiation where they say: this is a group of Muslims, so here we do not take the task seriously, and here we are talking about a group of Danes, so here we take the task seriously, here we hand out fines. It is not my impression that the police work in this way, which is why I do not quite recognize the interpretation put forward by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132735	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132736	No, but there's no doubt that there's going to be one and I shouldn't use the wrong expression... mass trouble if the police take action. That is why the police need more resources, and that is why the police need support to do so. As I said before, it's no use sending out a patrol car with two nice, nice police officers, that's just not working. Now the Ramadan is over next weekend, and I'm excited about what's happening now. Should you mark that Islam is in charge here in Aarhus, for example, just as it was last time or is it really the Danish society? In other words, what is the big problem I think with the proposal for adoption is what we have heard before, namely that we want to provide information. We're so kind, we're so nice. We want to provide information; we want to do everything we can at all. But what happens if you do not comply? That is what I lack answers to in the proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats and the Red Parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132832	Well, this was the first time I had had the opportunity to hear the blue parties' proposals for adoption and, as I just heard here at the first reading, there was nothing I could disagree with. I thought it was very sensible what was said in that text. If we are to ignore what is at stake here about such a political mess, then there is no one in the Social Democratic Party who does not think that the police should take this as seriously when it is Muslim groups that violate the law as when they are other groups. I know of several examples from the media that the police have gone to the steel, for example. in relation to these water pipes, which I also tried to mention as an example in my speech. And there are certainly plenty of other examples. This is serious, no matter who's criminalising it. I just think we should bring the proportions, too. It is not the case that we systematically see all over the country that people with a non-Western background are doing what they can to violate these rules. That's one of them. documented by, for example, Syrians; in relation to Danes are actually under-represented with infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132936	Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520132937	Yeah, we're gonna have to pull out the positive stuff. I understand the rapporteur's point of view, and I understand that very well. But with what the rapporteur says about our proposal for adoption, I just think we should all vote in favour of it. And I think that would actually be a strong signal to the outside world, because the rapporteur sounds positive. If you can't just say, fine, we'll back it up, that's the way it's supposed to be. I think that would be a very, very strong signal to those who sit out there, and certainly to parallel societies, that they did so. I would like an answer to that. But we have to recognise that the proposal put forward by the Social Democrats and the government does not at all mean anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133017	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133018	Well, I actually thought I could ask exactly the same question the other way. I also wondered what it is that makes it possible not only to endorse in the blue block the proposal for adoption which I have sent around and proposed as a common and unifying text, but which there was a lack of willingness to respond to; because I really think that the message is basically the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133043	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133044	Thank you very much. I think it sounds a little hollow when we have a minister who uses very big words. Perhaps he was not furious, but at least he used very big words in the media and felt provoked by the violations of law and the common prayer that was, etc. But when you stand in this Chamber asking what the Minister is going to do, there is nothing new in it. Yes, you speak of a great hammer that will fall, but there is no hammer that will fall. You just tell the police to do what they usually do. Isn't the rapporteur a little puzzled that the Social Democrats use such big words in the media, but when it comes to concrete actions, it can be summed up with some posters in ten different languages and to pass the monkey on to the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133128-2	I think that when you go into the tool shed and look for different sizes of hammers, you should get hold of the huge hammer when we look at how the statistics look in terms of crime, social control, employment and a number of other integration challenges we face in Denmark. But I think it's not so clear what size hammer we should get in this context, because over-represented me familiarly and the figures I've seen are confined only to an area in the vicinity of Copenhagen. And I know that again with that reservation it is not a general trend across the country. If it was a general trend of over-representation in the infection statistics and breaches of the guidelines across the country by people with a non-Western background, it might be that we should have a different size hammer. For the time being, however, I think that we must stick to the fact that we are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133219	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133220	Thank you. You could have done a lot of things. For example, as we did in relation to donations to mosques, we could call the blue parties to talk about what we can do, but nothing has happened. We are talking about a great hammer, but when the Social Democrats themselves do not have any proposals, why not ask the rest of us if we have any proposals? Right now you use a lot of big words in the media, but when it comes to reality, when it comes to new initiatives, there is nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133247	Well, it has to be said that it is not usually the case that the rapporteur is holding back from making good proposals, whether or not the rapporteur is asked. So I think that if the rapporteur has any good ideas, Mr. Marcus Knuth at least get on the field. In addition, I also think that, after all, the Folketing has already taken a number of initiatives together. And then I think that, in the end, we must stick to the fact that we cannot make it the minister's job to go around and solve this everywhere. It's an official task. It's the task of the police. And this is a task that I have the impression the police are also taking very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133319	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133320	I note that the rapporteur repeatedly highlights the Syrians as some who stand out positively. What we know about the acids in particular is that many have arrived in recent years. This is not, in fact, positive news, because it underlines that the longer the Muslims are in Denmark, the less they are willing to comply with the guidelines we receive. In other words, it is the groups, and especially the second generation and third generation, who have been here for very, very many years that cannot find out, whereas those who come here know very well that we must respect the guidelines of the authorities. Then Mr. Rasmus Stoklund does not agree with me that the relationship that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund mentions about Syrians, actually stresses that the billions of dollars we have spent decades integrating these people from the Middle East are totally wasted? For integration only goes down; it only goes in the direction that the longer you stay in Denmark, the more you refuse to respect our authorities, respect our way of life, respect women's rights, respect the rights of minorities, respect our entire Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133427	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133428	When you go in and read • Immigrants in Denmark • from Danmarks Statistik, who come once a year in the autumn, it is not a secret that there, like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt points out that there are significant problems with over-representation in a number of serious statistics of people from particularly different places in the Middle East. But I think, when we talk about it in this context and I use the example of the Syrians, that one should be a little careful to make those very clear causal relationships with that it is then a matter of how long people have been in Denmark. In other words, when the crisis here really picked up in Denmark, it was known to me especially in parts of North Zealand, where there were many who had been in a part of among others. Italy and held skiing. I do not think it was an expression that people living in Gentofte are generally poorly integrated into Danish society, that there were several of them who got covid-19. But they were infected because they were close to other people. It may be the same for social and economic reasons, but of course also for cultural reasons, as I have said several times, if you do not comply with the guidelines set out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133531	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133532	What just separates people living in Gentofte and people living in these Muslim ghettos is that those who got sick in Gentofte did it mainly before it became known that there was a disease and that there was something to be noticed where the problem in the Muslim ghettos is that people have been completely aware that something was going on, but they have just been indifferent. For they have put the imam in front of the minister, they have put Arabic before Danish, they have put Al-Jazeera before Danish public service television, because they have chosen Denmark from. That's where mr. Rasmus Stoklund has a problem of explanation, because this is not just a question of social and working conditions. It is a question of 100 000 people being admitted to Denmark, which is not part of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133609	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133609-2	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that's what I've been saying all along. I have said it in a radio broadcast where I discussed it with Mrs Rosa Lund about a week ago in P1. It is indisputable that there are some groups that have chosen to blow high and nicely on the guidelines set out. That is why we have seen some of the funeral arrangements, etc. that have been unacceptable and disrespectful of all the efforts that the rest of society is trying to make to prevent people from being infected with this disease. So, of course, there is also a cultural factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133643	It is the case that I choose to take all those who have asked for a brief comment to the Social Democrat rapporteur, but I must also say that if all the rapporteurs have the same number of comments, I will have to cut it sometime. There are still four brief comments, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133658	Thank you. I shall not continue the debate we had in P1 and, because time is short, I shall just ask a few questions: does Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also that we should then have a query debate in here about the people who sit on Sønder Boulevard in Copenhagen all close and drink beer and cannot behave properly? Should we have a query debate about high school students in North Jutland who meet for a farewell dinner? Should we have a question debate about people who cross the border with Germany to do border trade or go to Sweden to play golf? For I agree: it is provocative when people do not comply with the guidelines. But this isn't about ethnicity. Unfortunately, there are others in Denmark who cannot find out. Then Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also that we should have a query debate on it? I do not need the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133748	Now I'm still relatively new in here, but I think it would be controversial if I proposed a question debate to the government on one of those themes, but nevertheless I think that Mrs Rosa Lund is onto something. In other words, it could be quite relevant with some form of what to say, value-political debate on how to behave and how to form part of a community. However, if we are to stick to the subject of today's question debate, we have seen an over-representation of some sections of the population. We should try to find out why; it is in the interests of all of us. And I find it difficult to write it off completely and I do not want to write it off completely, I do not think it is possible, and I have also said this before to Mrs Rosa Lund in the debate that we were in at the moment that there is also a cultural factor at stake, and that is why we see an over-representation of certain sections of the population, that is, because the instructions that come from the authorities are not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133840	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133842	Thank you. It is clear from the rapporteur's speech and also from the proposal for adoption that initiatives have already been taken to deal with this problem. But we can see that this has not been enough and we can see that there is a great deal of over-representation. Among other things: among younger non-western immigrants and descendants there are three times as many who are infected as there are among the corresponding group of ethnic Danes. So what do the rapporteur think we should do from here? Does the rapporteur think that further action is needed to address this? We are here in this health crisis, and we do not know how it will develop. We might get another wave of infection in the fall. Does the rapporteur think that we need to do more at this stage to try to address this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520133935	I think that Danish society has already done a lot, and I also think that if questions are asked about what I personally think it is to be expected that more has been done than can be expected. For example: is translating into a wide range of languages not immediately something that is my cup of tea. My starting point is that when you stay in Denmark, you are informed in Danish, and if you cannot speak Danish yourself, you can ask your neighbor, or what do I know. Too many people have not taken on the task of learning the Danish language. You should do that if you live in Denmark. If there were to be a translation into another language, it might be English. But I think there is already a lot of distance and work to be done. Such initiatives are, of course, essential. This is one of the things that can help to spread it out, but the central issue is, in the first place, an appeal and an appeal and information, and if it does not work, it is the block of fines that must be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134029	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134030	We can see that it has not worked sufficiently when we see the over-representation that we are doing. So does the rapporteur really not think that the government or the rest of us should put our heads in the air and see if we can come up with any new measures to reduce the over-representation of infected people that we see?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134048	But the reasons for this over-representation must also be said that we do not know clearly, even though we have some indications of where it is mad. It is with some socio-economic conditions as well as some cultural conditions that we have dealt with in some rounds. But we haven't been properly mapped out yet. It has not been possible for the State Serum Institute to do so. This is evident from the report that has been presented. That is where I find it a little harder to say this so clearly, in that there are some groups with which there are major integration problems in a number of other areas, for example. Syrians who in this context are actually less infected than Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134124	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134127	Thank you. In order to stay on the same track, we can only see that there are fools who do not comply with the guidelines, in all walks of life, in all cultures, in all groups of society, and what we can see from the study by the Statens Serum Institut is, of course, that there is an over-representation of citizens with a non-Western background among the infected. That's kind of it. Well, that's all we can see. Then I can hear here in the debate that imagination flourishes in relation to the underlying causes of it. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to state and confirm that what we can see there is that there is an over-representation of non-Western citizens and that there are probably some other reasons why they are. It might then be interesting to try to dive in relation to it, i.e. whether it means that there is an over-representation of non-Western citizens who have poor housing conditions, who have poor economic conditions, who have poor mobility, which is part of what we know helps to increase the number of people infected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134226	It is, I think, a rather simple view to take that because you cannot document anything in a report, yet, at least, it does not exist. I am absolutely convinced that there is also a cultural factor at stake here. We have seen this in some of the examples that have been given in the media. If you travel in areas with many non-western immigrants, I think you can observe a behaviour that I do not think is similar to that recommended by the authorities and there have been a number of examples in the media. There's been a funeral procession where people are in huge groups. There is something here that can not only be explained by the fact that many people live together in an apartment, which in itself could also be a cultural explanation because they live as they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134318	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134319	You can elaborate over many conditions that you think could be felt. But if we were to have this debate and say that it has something to do with culture or ethnicity, then surely we should have a more valid basis to discuss it on. I just want to say that the rapporteur agrees that the only thing we can see here is that there is an over-representation, but that we cannot see why. There we can have many good theories about why it looks like that. I have mine and I can hear that the rapporteur also has his. However, if we were to have the real debate, we should be able to have a more professionally valid basis to discuss it on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134353	That is where I think there is a difference if it was a debate one had at the Statens Serum Institute, and it was scientists who should relate to whether they could say quite soberly that this is why it looks like it does, and whether it is we who sit here and have to deal with this as a social issue, as a political issue where everything cannot be measured and weighed and where there is no final result, but where it is our judgment that ultimately comes down to. There's Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund saw a different assessment of the situation than I have. I also believe that there is a cultural factor at stake here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134427	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134429	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and reply. I think that one of the things that puzzles a lot in here is the difference in the response of the government and the Social Democrats. In other words, when IKEA tries to open up in full compliance with all the guidelines of the health authorities, one is being rude. The same thing with the Zoological Garden, and when we see this statistic that shows that, compared to the group of non-western immigrants, there is a huge problem in complying with the guidelines of the Danish authorities, it is suddenly someone else's job. Then the government has done a lot, and then it just has to be up to the police. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a difference here? In one group there are good Danish companies that comply with the guidelines, and in relation to another group, not Western immigrants, there is a fear of touch, and then suddenly it is not the government's problem, and so has a lot been done? Can the rapporteur not understand if we are some who are a little confused about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134522	You're my impression, sir. Morten Dahlin often gets confused over a lot of things that I actually think Mr. Morten Dahlin isn't really confused about. But no, first of all, I do not buy the assumption that the government or the Social Democratic Party are going around embezzling Danish companies. You haven't done that. That's one. The second is that we have criticized the behaviour of various groups, and these have been some of the examples I have given earlier, with water pipes and funerals and other activities that have not been in accordance with the instructions that have come from the authorities, and I have received a large number of messages and e-mails from people who think that I am embarrassing people when I say that I think these things are problematic. But I don't think we do. We need to be able to talk about the problems that exist in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134609	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134611	Yes, it certainly made the confusion go away. However, it is not the case that I was very pleased with the rapporteur's reply. Could the rapporteur not reassure me and reassure the Left by saying that, in relation to the proposal that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard read out, which recommends that the government take targeted action and that there is an enforcement of the law, the Social Democrats are breaking with the red friends, who obviously do not think it has anything to do with culture or anything, but just think that it is all socio-economic and that it is also a pity for them? Could the Social Democrats not now break with the red friends and go with us and vote in favour of the proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134648	I do not think that there is any significant difference in substance between the intention and messages of the two proposals for adoption, and I think that, if that were a sincere wish of Mr. Morten Dahlins and the other parties on the side of the blue block, then it is strange that you did not • what to say was part of a serious process when I made proposals for a common text of adoption across all parties. But there was no interest in that, and that is why we are only hearing the Blue Block's proposals for adoption now. I think we have landed a fine text together with the other red parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134719	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we can now move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520134731	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this very important debate. In the Left we are pleased that Denmark has for the time being succeeded in handling the covid-19. But we must also recognise that not everyone has been equally good at complying with the guidelines of the authorities. A recently published report by the SSI states that the group of non-Western citizens in particular is significantly over-represented in the statistics on detected covid-19 cases. It is also supported by similar foreign studies, where the results are the same. It is very worrying when we see in this way that there is a particular community group that has these challenges, and we must also note that we have seen specific situations where this group has been completely indifferent to the direction of the authorities. We have seen large groups gather together in prayer, and at the beginning of the crisis we saw several water pipes being fined for failing to comply with the guidelines. As you know, the virus does not care about ethnic background, and we must not be blind to the fact that the differences that can be observed between the different social groups are also influenced by cultural and social differences, and we in the Left see it as an even major problem that a particular group cannot find a way of complying with the rules of the authorities, and I do not think it is by chance that non-western immigrants are over-represented in the Corona statistics. I can see the argument that it is of course harder to isolate oneself in a two-bedroom in Ishøj than on a large farm in West Jutland, but contrary to what some in this Parliament seem to claim, that is not what can explain the difference alone. We can see it from the crime statistics, where this group is also over-represented. In schools we can see it from the statistics on absenteeism, in the employment centres we can see it in unemployment statistics. There is a challenge with a special community group that has difficulty adapting to the standard, values and rules in Denmark, and therefore this is also about the integration challenges we have with this very special group. There is a general problem in adapting to the standards and rules we have in Denmark, and there should not be. Because when you live in Denmark, you have to master the Danish language, you have to adapt to the standards and values of our society, and you have to follow the guidelines of the authorities. Fortunately, the vast majority of the population can find out, but not all, unfortunately, and it is important to stress that this is not just a problem for this group itself, but also for all of us. We all need the infection chains to be broken. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that everyone, including the non-Western immigrant group, adheres to the guidelines, takes responsibility for themselves, each other and the community, and we therefore expect the government to take targeted initiatives and strengthen law enforcement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135031	There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135046	Just as we have this debate, I understand that the party leaders are discussing how to reopen Denmark to a greater extent than until now. And the reason it's possible is that we in Denmark have fortunately gained some control over this virus, and this is not least due to the fact that the population has been good at taking care of themselves and each other. I think that is something for which everyone is to be congratulated, and that is the great majority of non-western immigrants and descendants we are debating here. Mosques have been shut down, etc. etc. It has been so full of debate here that non-western immigrants and descendants account for 9%. of the population, but about 19 per cent. of the infected with the coronavirus it is numbers from the Serum Institute. Of course, I have to start by saying that it is of course interesting that it is not the welfare of these infected people that we are debating and concerned about. No, one is worried about whether a particular religion and a particular ancestry are a problem as such, but one has not talked about so much in the debate so far that it is of course a pity for the people who have been infected and that this should be what we are actually discussing, in other words how a particular population avoids getting sick. I find it interesting to dive into these figures, because in the figures you can see that in the region of central Jutland, which means Aarhus, in the region of North Jutland, which counts Aalborg, and in the region of Southern Denmark, which counts Odense, where there are these residential areas where there are many non-western immigrants and descendants, the infection is only a little bit above what it is for ethnic Danes. I think there was another rapporteur who said that for Syrians, there are some 40 000 of them, too, the infection is actually under ethnic Danes. On the other hand, if you look at the capital and especially the western part of Copenhagen and some of the municipalities with a high concentration of non-western immigrants and descendants, then the infection is unfortunately very high in some of those areas. But this shows that there is a difference between non-western immigrants and there is also a difference between whether you are non-western immigrants in Odense and Aarhus or in the metropolitan area. Two days ago, Kristeligt Dagblad had a very interesting article from which I will refer a little, and I hope that the government will take part in its work. Here there are two researchers, Morten Sodemann from the University of Southern Denmark and Marie Nørdam from the infectious medicine department at Hvidovre Hospital, who are trying to say what the causes could be. And as several have stressed, culture is certainly one of the reasons. But it's also a reason why many of these people in the western part of Copenhagen live together in a few square meters. It is also a parameter that very many of the people who have been infected are actually in employment, for example. As taxi drivers, bus drivers and cashiers, it could be that there are many different reasons for this. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund forgot to tell us that the Radical Left also supports the text he put forward, because what is wise is of course to set in motion work to analyse all these factors, including cultural ones, so that we can learn from it and make sure that these people do not get a virus some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135419	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135422	Yes, but there are also a great many ethnic Danes who live badly and yet, in general, you can understand how to comply with the instructions. So, unfortunately, it is my very clear conviction that it is a question of having one's own society and that one does not want to comply with the Danish authorities. It's so funny about these reasons you always mention from the left. Why is there no mention of parallel societies? It is a general resistance, as there is in Muslim environments against the Danish authorities. You listen more to the Imams than you do to the Danish authorities, and there are cultural, family and social differences and also poor hygiene. So is there. You just have to admit that. However, this is particularly true of what I think is the most important and the worst, namely that there are other rules that apply in the words of the parallel societies, the imam's words are higher than what is said by the Danish authorities, and that is really what is the core problem for me to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135521	I can only state that, of course, only one set of rules applies, and that is what we adopt in the Folketing and which the government and the police prescribe. You can't live by some other rules. It's not okay, no matter what excuse you use. But what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard fails to say, both in her speech as rapporteur and in these questions, is that it is of course interesting that there is a difference between Syrians and other minorities. It is also interesting that the infection has spread much differently in Aarhus than it has in Copenhagen, and this suggests that there are at least several factors in it, for example. As these researchers point out in Kristeligt Dagblad, it is in fact those who are in employment who have become more infected. And that is interesting because we have usually talked about integration being about getting into employment, which means that it may in fact be that some of those who have at least been most integrated in the labour market have also been most infected because they work in areas where they are more exposed to infection than in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135621	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135622	Yes, but you get more infected than others if you've been working in a field of work such as: a bazaar, a big grocery store, or whatever it is, of which there are so many. And so there are not the same limitations. It is possible that so much has been said about it I do not know but I have at least seen from the beginning that it was not there at all. Well, it was like coming to a Moroccan street. People flocked, stood in the necks of each other, there was no distance at all. So I simply do not understand why we dare, and now I understand from the rapporteur that we should almost think that it is a little sin for them that they have probably also been infected and suffer with it. But it is certainly also a pity for the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135705	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135707	I therefore agree with both of the points that were made at the end. Of course, it is a pity for those who get corona, regardless of who it is, and you also have to take care of yourself to take care of everyone in society. It is a community of which we are a part, and there can be no doubt, for our part, that we must respect the rules, whether it be in a bazaar or in a mall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135727	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135728	I noted here the idea of the radical rapporteur on the equality between being integrated and being in the labour market. I think you have to be very careful about that. There is not much to suggest that you take Denmark into your heart just because you are on the labour market or just because you are not a criminal. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Rasmus Stoklund mentioned at the end of his speech, to a large extent a cultural relationship, whether you feel like a natural part of the Danish people, Danish history etc. That's why I just want to know if Mr. Andreas Steenberg will not confirm that there are plenty of Muslims who are on the labour market who are not at all for that reason well integrated and feel like Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135816	I fully agree that integration is about more than working. I mentioned it because it is often the way to do it in the statistics whether people have been integrated so to see if they are in work. However, I fully agree that such a thing quite basically as respecting the rules of democracy and respecting that others must have different opinions and have other religious beliefs, is, of course, a very, very central part of being a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135839	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135840	I'm glad we can agree on that. Is Mr. Andreas Steenberg also agreed that the higher the concentration of Muslims in different ghetto areas, the worse is integration? So, I think it's just easier if you come as a single family from the Middle East to a village or city like Copenhagen, Århus, or whatever it may be, to become a part of Denmark, if you constantly meet people who are familiar and immediate with being Danish, whereas if you come into a ghetto where there are almost only people from the hometown, then it's very difficult to understand what it really is to be Danish, and we therefore have an interest in reducing the number of Muslims in Denmark if you are to succeed in integrating anyone at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135918	As Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can probably figure out, I don't agree with what he started by saying that if you're a Muslim, that's equal to being a problem. But what I'm going to give Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right about the fact that a completely misguided housing policy has been pursued decade after decade, when people with the same challenges have been taken into account in this case lack of integration and set them to live together without other groups having been integrated or not having had the same challenges. In any case, it is obvious that this has been a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135949	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520135950	I actually hear the radical rapporteur look at the fact that there are some challenges here, but a great deal from such low-practical assessments, where we may be thinking: is this really an expression of the problem we have seen over the years in a number of countries, so that, for politically correct reasons, we keep a certain distance from doing what we have to, in other words, maintain law and order in certain residential areas, in a country such as Denmark? We have also seen in Sweden, in Germany and in other countries that law and order are not enforced in the same way in ghetto areas where there are many Muslim immigrants gathered, as is done on the football field or on Islands Brygge, where a woman with a child is quickly fined when she fails to comply with the rules. That is reasonable enough, as far as the latter is concerned, because the rules must be observed. But if we have such a distance in terms of wanting to do what needs to be done with the ghettos, then we have a problem, don't we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140058	Yes, we do. You cannot have areas in the country where the law does not apply or is maintained or where the police do not issue fines. Of course, we can't have that. That goes without saying, and I understand that a number of questions have been put to the Minister for Justice about a specific case in which the police did not move out. I believe it was in the Gellerup Park in Aarhus, and I think that is a relevant debate, and the police and the Minister of Justice must answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140124	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Skaarup the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140127	Are I to understand that the Radicals can actually see that there is a challenge here and that it is now stopping this distance, i.e. that zone between the authorities and then the ghetto areas forward-looking? For us in the Danish People's Party, this is the only way to signal that law and order also apply at Blågårds Plads or at Mjølnerparken or at Gellerupparken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140201	Yeah, that goes without saying. The Radical Left is, after all, a party that is very much concerned with the principles of the rule of law, and everyone must be equal before the law, and that applies both ways. You have the same rights to vote, to express yourself and so on, but it also means that you have the same obligation to respect the law and also to be punished if you have not done so. Of course, it must apply to everyone, no matter where you live or what your background is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140225	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140234	Thank you. Today we are discussing the fact that the spread of covid-19 is probably more widespread among ethnic minorities, and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Peter Skaarup has put it in such a way that you are interested in why it takes place. It is also claimed that the answer is: Parallel societies have ignored the requirements of distance imposed by the authorities. First of all, I would like to say that in the SF we take the demands of the authorities incredibly seriously. That is why we are also concerned about the increased spread of infection among ethnic minorities, for which we have both the words of professors and the Institute for Human Rights. It is deeply serious, both for the sake of society as a whole, but also for the sake of the inherent inequality that lies in some being more exposed to infection than others. For this reason, the SF also considers that religious traditions are in no way above health-care priorities. Christians could not meet in the churches at Easter, and Muslims must celebrate the Ramadan together separately. At the same time, we have seen that some citizens have not quite understood that the rules also apply to them • whether it is Copenhageners who enjoy the sun on Islands Brygge, or Muslim citizens who have tried to gather in prayer. Regardless of whether the excuse is provocation from, for example, Generation Identitarian, it is totally irresponsible to unite in larger groups, at least greater than what the health authorities recommend. Therefore, I would like to repeat once again for Prince Canute, so no one can be in doubt that in the SF we do not care who you are and what you believe in it is unacceptable if you do not comply with the health authorities' recommendations. That is why I also expect the police to intervene if people gather in too large groups that applies both at Islands Brygge and in Gellerup. With that said, I think that the Danish People's Party's explanation of the spread of infection among ethnic minorities is one-eyed. Honestly, it seems that there is a political ulterior motive behind the issue, which is therefore only interested in the deliberate ignoring of the recommendations of the authorities in parallel societies, and I do not think this is appropriate. If Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Peter Skaarup had now taken the trouble to listen to the experts who have warned about the increased spread of infection among ethnic minorities, it would have been found that ignoring the recommendations of the authorities is the least of the underlying causes. Both the Institute for Human Rights and the professors point first and foremost to the relationship between ethnicity and housing size. Thus, a non-Western family with children has an average housing size of 105 m2, while an ethnic Danish family with children has an average housing size of 140 m2. At the same time, they also live more often in neighbourhoods with a short distance between homes and a high population density. If ethnic minority families have on average more children than ethnic Danish families, then one should not be Sherlock Holmes to figure out that the risk of infection increases significantly. You simply live more closely together. So, like so many other places in society, inequality is a significant part of the problem here. It is clear that Muslims meeting in prayer are unacceptable. It is clear that ethnic minorities must abide by the rules, just as everyone else must. However, the modest percentage that has broken the rules is hardly the primary cause of the increased spread of infection. It is, on the other hand, the unequal housing situation. That is just another good reason why we need to break up parallel societies and concentrate on work to secure more mixed housing. This requires both a housing policy which has it as its main objective, but it also requires more larger and cheaper general housing. It both benefits integration and combats inequality, but now we know that it can also help us to protect ourselves from a new epidemic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140622	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140624	Thank you. The rapporteur began by saying that there was probably a higher spread of infection in parallel societies. There is. That is what we are discussing now. I just have to say that we can't use all these explanations for anything. It is said that it is a pity for them and that it is because they live too close. As the Minister also came to say in his long tirade that most of it was a sin for them, there were also some who could not Danish. That was the most far-reaching statement. But I just want to draw attention to this famous broadcast, which was on TV 2 a few years ago, where mosques were revealed behind the veil, and where the leading imam, who called for joint prayer for hidden camera on behalf of Allah, warned against following the Danish authorities and the Danish secular laws and rules. It is therefore a parallel society and a parallel society with Sharia law and Koran quotes. A lot of them don't give a shit. They have their own society. They have no loyalty to Denmark, they only have loyalty to their own culture, their own rules, their own standards, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140732	Thank you. The rapporteur is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140733	It is not a question of explana tions when you mention the size of the dwelling and when you mention the number of children that I also mentioned. Several experts have pointed this out. Of course it matters. It has nothing to do with explanations of vote. It just has something to do with focusing on what is really the problem and what factors are involved. Then there are some citizens who, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard points out, do not respect the recommendations of the authorities. I also said this quite clearly in my speech that is unacceptable, and it does not really matter what religion you have or what is at the root of it. The recommendations of the authorities must be respected. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140806	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140807	Yes, but it has also been pointed out that people in parallel societies work more closely together. I mean, they're taxi drivers and stuff, right? Then it's kind of put in place. What about nurses? What about chief doctors? Do they have a higher representation? Actually, I don't think they have. They haven't. They work very, very closely together and even with sick people. They don't have that over-representation. So we can't use all those explanations for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140831	There was no question. I guess that's just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140837	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140839	Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech, who reminded me a little of my high school days, where I was one of those who was quite critical. That crime took place at all and that there were organized gangs who allowed themselves to commit crime, I was told in high school was society's fault: it's society's fault, it's not the criminals' fault. It's the same way here. It is the cause of housing conditions, SF now says that we have higher levels of infection among non-western immigrants in Denmark. That's ridiculous, isn't it? People who have a slightly larger accommodation at their disposal are as close to their children and with their spouses as people who have a slightly smaller accommodation at their disposal. So it's nonsense. Could we not agree that we have a problem, that we have a challenge and that the authorities must follow the challenges of a ghetto as closely as those who are out in the rest of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140939	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520140942	Of course the authorities have to. Of course. It does not matter which part of the country we are talking about. Everywhere, people have to abide by the rules. But what has been mentioned by the Institute for Human Rights and Professors is housing. It's not just the SF that mentions it. It's not caught out of thin air. Of course it matters that you live close. Of course it matters that you have a lot of kids. There are wildly many factors involved in relation to how epidemics spread, and that is something I think is relevant to mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141012	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141012-2	If we now agree that we must take tough action against some who break the rules wherever that happens, does the SF think it is okay to see funeral processions with extremely many people, Muslims, assembled, and that nobody does anything about it, nobody intervenes about it? There are no fines for them. Does the SF think that it is okay to see in Gellerup that prayer meetings take place where the police do not come out and enforce law and order? Does SF think it's okay for us to have gang members who drive away safely to Sweden, where there are major challenges with infection, and go back again, as if nothing has happened? Doesn't SF think there's a problem, and what will SF do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141055	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141056	Of course, I do not think it is okay to break the rules, and I have also specifically mentioned prayers in my speech, and I have mentioned Gellerup. I think you should respect the rules, no matter what part of society you belong to. There is not so much more to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141114	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141115	As I recall, socialism is, to a large extent, about freeing the oppressed working class, which is forced by the forced structures of society to live according to the implicit world view of bourgeoisie. That's basically what socialism is all about, isn't it? Why, then, has the Socialist People's Party now come to the conclusion that when it comes to Muslims' urge not to free themselves from the dogma, the culture that has ruined the entire Middle Eastern Muslim world, it does not matter? It is a paradox, then, that the Socialist side is fully prepared to free a oppressed working class from the standards of the upper class, but when it comes to Islam and Muslims, it is used as an excuse for not becoming part of society. - Sir... Carl Valentin trying to explain this kind of philosophical paradox?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141214	I don't know why you think SF should think that religion was an excuse for anything here. I believe that religious people must respect the guidelines of the authorities. It does not matter whether they are Christians or Muslims or what they are. You always have to respect the authorities, and that also applies to Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141234	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141235	No, that's not exactly true, sir. Carl Valentin. For that, sir. Carl Valentin said just now that it was social circumstances that justified the difference in behavior we can see. But the thing is that the behavior we see in the Muslim ghettos, one to one is the same as the one we see in the Muslim countries. So, these are low social conditions, poor conditions for women, poor conditions for minorities, a lack of respect for freedoms, a lack of respect for democracy. It is quite the same whether you are standing in Ramallah or whether you are standing in a Danish ghetto or a European ghetto. It's the same spiritual desert that just spreads out, no matter where Islam is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141310	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141311	Now I think the debate is spreading a little, but I would nevertheless like to stress that I do not believe that religion is an excuse for women's oppression or some of the many other things that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141326	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141336	Thank you. On 2 April, when the corona crisis was at its peak and very few proposals were dealt with here in the Folketing, we had to take time to deal urgently with a DF motion for a resolution on an unconstitutional stop to the reception of asylum seekers. And now, after numerous media statements by politicians from the Danish People's Party about a great deal, about the guilt of the nasty Muslims, yes, we must spend time on this urgent request. Because I understand that it is always urgent when the Danish People's Party blames refugees and immigrants. But if this is about health, because we are in a health crisis where solutions are urgently needed, then I am surprised that we are not taking a general debate on how the people who live in Denmark behave and accept the guidelines that are set out, both by a unanimous Parliament, but of course also by the Danish Health Authority and the authorities. We live in a society in which the economic upper class and the upper middle class are not exactly dominated by ethnic minorities. Very many people with refugee or immigrant backgrounds work in the service or healthcare sector. This is true, for example. cashiers, sosu assistants and helpers who cannot sit at home and take care of the work on the computer, as we others have been privileged to do during the months in which Denmark has been shut down. Their jobs involve close and frequent contact with citizens. If we ask the Danish Building Research Institute, the Institute can tell from its 2015 study that non-western families of children in this country live on average 105 m2, while the number of ethnic Danish families for children is 140 m2. Two out of three with non-western background live in floor construction. For ethnic Danes, the proportion is one in three. It's hard to keep your distance when you live a lot of people together. Officially, we have free and equal access to health services in Denmark. It's a principle that got a hefty nick in the nose when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government introduced an interpretation fee in the health service for citizens who for one reason or another have not learned Danish. It is a very irrational arrangement that helps create inequality in health and helps to ensure, unfortunately, that there are some very large fence posts for people who cannot speak Danish in relation to coming to the doctor. I would like to return to the question I put to the Minister earlier, because it is not the case that the government has shown a great eagerness to inform non-Danish-speaking citizens about corona. I can inform the Minister that it was not until 24 March, i.e. 2 weeks after the closure, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration wrote a letter to KL, FH, Danske Generale Holidays and a number of civil society organisations about a campaign to inform about corona in the vulnerable residential areas. People with ethnic minority backgrounds are over-represented among corona-stricken citizens in this country, and there are good explanations for this. They live closer, they work in close physical contact with other people, and if they speak badly Danish, they have not had the same quick access to updated information. On the other hand, ethnic minorities are hardly over-represented among tourists who brought the covid-19 infection to Denmark from Austria and Italy and other popular ski resorts. On May 10th there was a so-called prayer call in a parking lot in the Gellerup Park in Brabrand west of Aarhus, as we have also been talking about it has been highlighted in this debate. And there I just want to say that in the Enhedslisten we have the feeling that you have to comply with the guidelines, whether you sit on Islands Brygge with your friends and drink beer, or you meet in a parking lot in Gellerup you have to comply with the guidelines, no matter where you come from and what you believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141802	I fully agree with that. I have also been outraged when I have seen it at the beginning there in Nordhavn and at Islands Brygge etc. But they were actually shut down at some point by the police because you don't want to accept it. I thought that was all right. You just haven't done the same thing. Then I cannot help but overstep the introduction that we now need to spend time on an urgent question and that it could have been on health. Well, Enhedslisten could have just left. We in the Danish People's Party have never said no to an urgent request from other parties. Nor have I in my time as President, even though only a minority wanted it, said no, because I think that the people's rule should work. So I thank you very much for the fact that the Enhedslisten is even here with a rapporteur for this. I've noticed that you run it like that on a rather low level. In other words, the Minister made a very short speech and there were no real questions and so on. That's the way it is. However, we have the debate. What this is really about is the matter we are talking about. And you keep saying that these are other relationships. I asked the question before about doctors and nurses, who to such an extent in it there is no over-representation of me known.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520141911	I think that's a good point. Of course, doctors and nurses are also exposed to infection, and they have been the first to have access to protective equipment, which I think is sensible. But for example... The nursing homes, where there are a great many so-su assistants and so-su helpers, there has been a lack of protective equipment, and this has been a disaster. We are in complete agreement on this, I hope. But that means that the people who work in the nursing homes have been exposed to additional contamination, and I think this has been a disaster to such an extent, and that is why we in the Enhedslist have been so keen to ensure self-production, both from vaccine and from protective equipment. For it is clear that, when we are in a health crisis, the health sector must be in the forefront of getting protective equipment. But it is clear that other professional groups who also work with people, for example. those working in nursing homes must also have good access to protective equipment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142007	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142007-2	I certainly agree with that. Of course I am. It seems that on the left, it is believed that in reality there are virtually no problems with people of other ethnic backgrounds in Danish society. We would not have had an integration ministry if there had not been that case at all. In so-called old times it was all under the Ministry of Justice. It was a very, very small thing. Then it grew, and then you got the Ministry of Integration. So it kind of contradicts itself. But that's also being said Thank you!) that it was not really enlightened. I hope I can come back to that to another rapporteur, because I am going to disprove that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142050	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142051	I am not quite sure what the question really was. But I just want to stress again that for me and Enhedslisten to see, this is not a matter of ethnicity. Unfortunately, there are fools/idiots in all walks of life who have not been able to meet these guidelines. I have also read about people who go to Sweden to play golf, and that makes them break the guidelines. It provokes me as much as when someone breaks the guidelines of meeting for a prayer call.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142123	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142124	Mrs. Rosa Lund says that this has nothing to do with Muslims and that it is about all sorts of other things as I hear it. Then I would just like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund, following on from what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard asked, whether Mrs Rosa Lund believes that we had had an integration ministry in Denmark, if not because we had received a large Muslim immigration to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142152	I think we have an Integration Ministry because we have a large immigration. What these people believe in doesn't really matter. The Minister for Integration is probably also there for those who have migrated to Denmark because they have fled countries where you have to believe in something particular, and therefore for example. are atheists. The Ministry of Integration is not here for the Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142211	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142212	But can I ask Mrs. Rosa Lund something? 'Cause I don't really think Mrs. Rosa Lund is quite in on what we're talking about here. Mrs. Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten often feel as if everything is good and that there are just a few troublemakers or whatever it is that doesn't really bother. But is Mrs Rosa Lund aware of the fact that we have also seen in the report by the Freedom of Freedom Commission that there are groups in our society, non-Western immigrants, Muslims, and what is now called those who have the basic belief that religion is above the state and that religion is followed, whereas the laws and rules that the state brings are subordinate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142253	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142254	I am aware of the report by the Commission on Freedom of expression, which I think is very interesting, and I feel as a socialist in favour of the separation of Church and State, that religion can never, for me, be above the laws that we make together in here. So I think that is certainly a problem, just as I also think it is a problem and take very seriously that there are environments in Denmark where there is social control. I think it is very important that we take action on this, just as I think it is extremely important that we provide the best conditions for learning to speak Danish. Well, I think we should have better Danish education for refugees and immigrants than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142332	Thank you. I have a service information. I still have three brief remarks to make to Mrs Rosa Lund, but we need three rapporteurs, and we need the Minister, and we have approx. Thirty-five minutes to go. I say that as a service information. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142347	It is interesting that because Mrs Rosa Lund is a socialist and an atheist, she is apparently unable to see that there are people around society who, because of their beliefs, find it difficult to relate loyally to Danish society. It is quite obvious that Denmark has had no problems with Chinese, Hindu, atheists, for that matter, Catholics, or whatever it may be, to the extent that not only Denmark, but all Western countries have experienced with the immigration of Muslims. Not all Muslims are a problem, but the task that all Western countries are experiencing with Islam is insurmountable, and I simply cannot understand what it is that is evidently going through when, as a socialist and thus professing atheist, one also refrains from understanding that religion is therefore a huge governing factor for very many people, not least Muslims, who are confusing religion and politics, because that is what comes from the Koran. Could Mrs. Rosa Lund explain what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142454	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142455	Well, I can start by reassuring Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt says that I am both baptized and confirmed, and that I fully acknowledge that religion can be the ruler of one, that faith can mean a great deal. My question to Mr. Peter Skaarup goes on: Do the rules of the faith you have stand above the laws we make in here? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142520	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142521	But that doesn't change it. If you take a very large population into Denmark, which does not have the same values of freedom and the same view of life, death, belief, the country of origin, all the things that are implicit for us Christian Danes, if you take in a very large group of Muslims who think something completely different, then it may well be that they live on paper in a country where the Danish constitution applies, but what helps if they do not let their women vote if they listen to the imam rather than the authorities, if they do not want to learn Danish, if they do not respect women's rights, if they do not respect freedom of expression, etc.? Denmark will then be just a piece of paper, and that is the consequence of Mrs Lund's socialism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142558	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142600	Of course, I disagree with that. Because if it had been the Enhedslisten that had decided on integration policy over the last 20 years, it would have looked significantly different. For example: I think it should be the case that, when you come to Denmark, you learn Danish from day one, but that we also organize those courses after you also learn something about our values, about freedom of expression, about equality, about democracy. But the Danish People's Party itself has made sure that what happens when you come to Denmark is that the programmes you receive are completely targeted at the labour market. So, after all, everything that was about democracy has been removed, and that is for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's own bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142639	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142641	Thank you. Mrs Rosa Lund, in the rapporteur's speech I took the most note of the reasons for the social and economic situation. I would like to ask whether the Enhedslisten can point out anything at all where this over-representation could be due to cultural reasons, i.e. a lack of integration, what do I know? Can the rapporteur not try to elaborate, if so, where it is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142707-2	Well, as I said, it's primarily about socio-economics, how to live, but I also think there are some linguistic barriers, and that's exactly why I was so sorry that the government was a little late in translating government guidelines into other languages. So I quite clearly believe that there has been a linguistic barrier, but I really just think that this debate puts a big, bold line on the fact that we need to have this looked at, because right now it's all just sights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142738	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142743	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that if Enhedslisten had decided on asylum policy for the last 20 years, it would make it run cold down my back... there would just have to be plenty of Danish education. We should also have employed many Danish teachers for all those who had been allowed to enter Denmark. The rapporteur mentions several times during his speech and several times during his reply the fact that there are people going to Sweden to play football and golf. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there is an over-representation of covid-19 cases among golfers in the Øresund region.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142821	I just do, sir. Morten Dahlin, no idea. For me, this is because I get just outraged every time someone doesn't follow the guidelines. But it's perhaps very interesting to examine the golf thing or I don't know, I might not actually think that that part is so exciting. What is exciting is to find out why people living in Denmark will not comply with the guidelines that we set out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142848	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142851	I actually think it's quite exciting, because there probably isn't. And that is why the rapporteur's comparison does not work when the rapporteur is consistently trying to avoid expressing criticism of this particular group of society, not Western immigrants in parallel societies, by referring to people who go to Sweden to play golf. So, the challenge is not golfers in the Øresund region; the challenge is clearly and clearly present with non-western immigrants in parallel societies. And I just find it incredibly difficult to understand why it can be so difficult for Enhedslisten to express criticism of a group that obviously does not want to follow the guidelines of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142931	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520142932	Well, it's not difficult, sir. Morten Dahlin. I have just said all the way through that everyone, including people with a different ethnic background from Denmark, must comply with the guidelines. I can easily use a different example from the golf example. At Nørrebro, where I live around Blågård Square, as Mr. Peter Skaarup is so worried about, are those who can't figure out how to comply with the guidelines, people on Mr. Skaarup. Morten Dahlin's age with Mr. Morten Dahlin's skin color, which just wants to meet and drink caffe latte in the sun.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143004	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143010	Thank you, President. I am actually a little surprised at why we are standing here today, because a broad majority of this Parliament has expressed outrage at the fact that a large group of men gathered for Muslim prayer in Gellerup Park a week ago and broke the ban on assembly. And then there have been other breaches of water pipes etc. After all, the minister was immediately out in B.T., raging over prayer and saying that these people were totally indifferent to other people, not least because of the risk of infection. And that's right. I agree entirely with the Minister. So we were expecting the government to roll out some major effort, some new moves. One could, for example: Ask the police to hit harder or ask the police to investigate who was in this joint prayer there were pictures etc. The government might also have called the religious leaders for a talk and a reminder of the illegality of what is going on in these environments. These are environments where, unfortunately, the Imams often have a lot to say. The government could also come out with new proposals to tighten up penalties and so on. But no, the minister has had posters hung up in ten different languages, and that is about it, apart from the fact that, of course, people have been raging in public. We do not think this is very impressive, so we would like to call on the government to make targeted efforts so that breaches of law do not happen again. I would therefore also like to thank the Danish People's Party for bringing this debate to the fore, because as furious or angry as the minister was, it was expected that some steps would be taken so that this debate would not have been necessary at all. With this I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. I regret that we could not just concentrate on a text. I think it was more in communication than anything else, because I know that overall we have the same intention. The proposal reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that citizens with non-Western backgrounds are over-represented in the covid-19 statistics. It is noted that this group may be exposed to greater risks of infection due to housing and working conditions, but that for example: joint prayer has broken the ban on assembly and increased the risk of infection. The Folketing urges the government to make targeted initiatives so that the rules are respected by all citizens. • V 69).
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143232	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143246	Thank you. Our rapporteur on foreigners, Mrs Pernille Vermund, could not be here today, so I am acting as rapporteur on this matter. For several months Danish society has been more or less closed down. The Danes have made a great effort to reduce the infection and thus take pressure from the health care system. We've been extremely good at adjusting and looking out for each other. We have increasingly taken responsibility for each other, even more than we usually do. The trust we have in each other and the civil solidarity that exists between us Danes have helped us. Our national community of values has demonstrated its strength. It has shown that we Danes can overcome much more when we stand together and show social minds rather than stand separately. But there have also been groupings in Danish society that have in no way followed the guidelines of the authorities. Determined distance requirements have been ignored, which has increased the risk of infection. The media have reported that non-western immigrants and descendants have been infected more with corona than ethnic Danes and Western immigrants. And we have seen the same trend in other countries. Figures from the Statens Serum Institut have shown that coronasmitte has particularly flourished among a particular group in Danish society, namely younger descendants of immigrants from non-western countries. The infection in this group has been three times as high as in ethnic Danes in the same age group. This has been explained in terms of work and housing conditions. Another explanation may be that that group does not quite follow what is going on in Denmark and that they do not comply with the instructions given by the authorities to a lesser extent. Muslim common prayer and burial have been held, where very many have been gathered on a very small area. Water pipes have gone from mouth to mouth, even according to the authorities' recommendations to keep a distance and be careful about hygiene. Several water pipes have even been fined for violating orders. This is totally unacceptable behaviour for Danish society. We are all affected by this thoughtlessness and irresponsibility, and this must be highlighted. I am therefore pleased that today we have this urgent request with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The necessary enforcement of the law must be ensured, including with regard to non-Western citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143508	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we thank you. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143517	Thank you. We can see that coronasmitte is about twice as common among people with immigrant backgrounds as with others in Denmark. Then you can discuss what the reason for that is. I would suggest that it plays a role to have in immigrant environments too in this case a perception that one is one's own society which has its own standards and values, etc., and which sometimes contradicts the rest of society, and that it can also play a role here in relation to coronasmitte. I would also like to point out that other explanations in this matter are more important. I think it is more important that many people live in fewer square meters. I think it is more important that when you are in employment in those environments, it is very often in services where you are with and have contact with other people and very little can work from home. But all we can guess about is that. I believe that it is important that culturally you feel like your own society with your own set of standards, and that is why, of course, the rules that we have adopted in connection with the corona epidemic in Denmark must also be enforced in environments where there are many immigrants. That is why, of course, it is also important that this should happen when we call for a joint prayer, when we violate the ban on the assembly, and if we continue to keep water pipes open. On the other hand, it must also be said that there are many other places in Danish society where it has been difficult to comply with these guidelines. It is not many weeks ago that it spread like a wildfire on social media that the Danes were outraged by other native Danes, who, under the impression that the sun was springing up, gathered publicly in places and in flocks that were too large and too close. The repeated problems of enforcing the rules at Islands Brygge, which eventually led to a total ban on gathering there, were not specifically directed at people with an immigrant background. Well, I might have found another debate to use to problematize the fact that in immigrant communities there is this parallel society mentality that sometimes looks at the rules of society to a greater extent than other parts of society. I do not think this is the most appropriate debate for this. It is far more problematic, after all, when, in those environments, you overlook the fact that young people in the environment are running around making the streets uneasy and committing crime and violence. But now it became the subject of which the Danish People's Party felt it was necessary to have an urgent request; as if the problem would go away if the debate were not taken in time. But we support the text that Mr. Marcus Knuth has read on behalf of the Conservative and Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520143917	I would also like to start by thanking you for an important debate, and I would like to start by repeating some of the government's actions in relation to what the question is all about. We are testing far more now than we have done in the past, and the detection of close contacts with infected people has intensified, and this, of course, also includes immigrants and the descendants of immigrants. We have an ongoing information campaign aimed at residential areas with many foreigners, and we are now strengthening it even more. We are in dialogue with relevant industries, where many work with foreign backgrounds, how to inform about the risk of infection in the workplace, and then we involve the practitioners in order to spread the authorities' recommendations in connection with covid-19 and to get an increased focus on testing patients with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish. And if it should prove necessary to consider other measures in the future, we are also prepared to do so. But having said that, this debate is about the hand on the heart... maybe not so much about handling the covid-19, but more about the fact that we are having another general immigration debate in the light of corona. I do not really have much objection to that, and here is my own observation that corona acts as a fluid on the general challenges of society. The most vulnerable in the labour market are now more vulnerable than they were before the infection. Citizens with chronic disease are more at risk now than they were before corona. And conditions that already existed, problems in the field of integration that existed in advance, now appear more clear and more obvious than they did before. It has become clear to everyone that we also have integration problems in coronaland. Of course we do. And for that debate, I would say to the bourgeois bloc, the right-hand side of the Assembly: yes, it would be very strange if the cultural causes behind crime statistics, employment statistics and much more were not part of the causes of the infectious diseases we have seen from the Statens Serum Institut, of course. You must also recognise that housing and jobs are of course also important. I hear some of you say that, too. And on the left, I would like to say: yes, bus drivers have more difficulty isolating themselves on the job than an accountant sitting at home with his excelark in the kitchen. It's self-evident. But you, we, must also recognise that there are too many people who have come to this country, who do not regard themselves as part of the community we have in Denmark, who are turning their backs on it, and that it is therefore obvious to me that culture is also part of the understanding of these figures. But for me it is really bad, not the most important realization in this time. The most important recognition for me is that there are limits to what integration policy can do. We can provide Danish education, job training, schools and teachers. We can translate all the recommendations of the world into all the languages of the world. We can roll out the whole red carpet of the welfare state, but we cannot integrate people for them. That decision lies with the immigrants themselves; it is, after all, the people who cross the border who have to decide for themselves, in their hearts. Those who make that decision do it in five minutes. As Mrs Krarup said earlier, and I often think of the remark: it takes five minutes to be integrated. Of course that is not quite right, but still: the decision to do so takes only five minutes. So when more, including Conservatives, ask the government to take further steps, we answer: OK, we want to do that. We're not going to sit around with imams to discuss it, because I don't want to set them up as authorities. We're not going to criticize the police for having a fear of touch. Our appeal is primarily to people themselves: Choose Denmark for. And that's what this corona situation tells me is necessary to repeat, and I'm happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144331	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144334	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you also to the Minister, because I think that was a very fine speech he made here, which in many ways summed up and was also a small song; I liked that. What I am wondering is why there is not a word about the whole reflection of the Minister in relation to what has then gone wrong in general, but also specifically here in the Corona situation, in the proposal for adoption, which among other things. Social democracy has put forward. I mean, it is not because you have made an effort to use all the syllables, I think you could easily have added something. There is not a single word about the failure of the strategy, where you regret or say that you should have done something different. So why is it that what the Folketing is going to vote on is devoid of the concern that the Minister in the Chair would like to express in relation to Muslim immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144428	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144429	I really don't think it is. It says in the last line that we call on all citizens of Danish society to take independent responsibility for following the guidelines of the authorities and helping to reduce the infection. I guess that's the health policy call. What I'm just saying is that maybe this debate isn't so much about dealing with covid-19. Perhaps this is more of an opportunity for a general debate on integration. As I said, I do not mind; I think that is actually very sensible for us to have this on a regular basis. And for that, I just sum up that no matter how many times we translate into those languages, no matter how many places we put up posters, people don't get integrated into it. It starts somewhere else. It starts with people themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144516	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144518	However, the proposal for adoption here is quite separate from the reality of the debate. There's nothing in there. The Social Democratic motion for a resolution on the problems surrounding the whole debate. In other words, our proposal for adoption starts by stating that, despite information from health authorities, non-western citizens are over-represented. But there is nothing about that in this proposal for adoption. Well, how can that be? Is it because if the Minister had the criticism expressed, he would not be able to get his parliamentary hinterland to vote in favour, because Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party etc. will not agree to what the Minister would like to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144549	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144551	In fact, I do not think there is such a difference between the two proposals for adoption. Now I just stood here and shit them again, and I actually think they're about exactly the same thing. But those who have formulated them, both of them, have dealt with what the question has been called on: the question raised by the Danish People's Party. The fact that the debate has then moved in a more general direction and has revolved around the challenges of integration, including Morten Messerschmidt's own assessments of the importance of Islam for Danish society, is of course difficult for those who have formulated the texts to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144628	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144630	Thank you. I'd like to grab on to the same thing as sir. Morten Messerschmidt is talking about here. In other words, there is nothing at all about the background to all the initiatives that we are calling for here in the Danish People's Party, and which I hear a little during this debate that the Minister can actually see the need for. There is no mention of this in the proposal for adoption. After all, we have mentioned one example after another, where the Danes can see that there is discrimination in relation to what non-western immigrants, Muslims are exposed to and what Danes are exposed to. We've been talking about gang cars driving to Sweden... no consequence. We have been talking about prayer meetings where the police have a road accident, so that the one car that has been sent does not get there. We've been talking about funerals, about when Yahya Hassan was buried, where people didn't comply with these rules at all. Can the Minister not see that it simply lags behind the fact that the government does not put power behind the words?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144735	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144737	No. We do not believe that the police discriminate against the population. We are not of the opinion that the police are running out and imposing fines on everyone with a Danish background and that they are overlooking what those with a foreign background are doing. That is simply not our view. Nor will this be reflected in such a proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144759	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144800	However, I do not really understand why the Minister is saying this, because during the debate the Minister has said that there is a problem with the fact that some parallel societies have grown too big and there are a lot of challenges here. And I hear the Minister acknowledge the same thing that the Danish People's Party says in this debate, that is to say that one has been too far from these environments, been too far from the extreme forces, let too much pass with extreme actions by Muslims in Denmark. That's what I hear from the minister. That's what it sounds like. But there is not really any action behind it, and that is what we are calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144842	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144843	But I would like to start by saying that I have many foreign policy positions that are not contained in this proposal for adoption. So of the fact that it is not there, one cannot conclude that then I have no opinion on it or that the government has no opinion on it. What is in this text is an attempt to respond to what has been raised as a question debate, and I think that is quite relevant. It says straight out by road that the Danish Parliament notes what is stated in the Statens Serum Institut's report • Point 1. And point 2: The government calls on people to take responsibility. I guess that's the bottom line. If we had thought that the most important thing was that the government took a new initiative and put up a new poster, it would have been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144918	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144920	I would also like to take up the proposal for adoption. I am here with the proposal for adoption in which the Social Democratic Party is involved. There is only one active action that is described, and it is that the government calls for all citizens of Danish society to take an independent responsibility for following the guidelines of the authorities and helping to limit the infection. Does the Minister believe that the Government's repeated request will improve the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520144948	Indeed, it is my view that the very clear call, which not only I myself, but which many members of the government have been repeating and repeating for quite a few weeks now, has had a positive effect, because fortunately we have a responsible people who listen to a government and listen to the authorities and comply with the recommendations. Fortunately, the vast majority of people do, and I do not think that it is decisions taken in this room or in the ministries' premises that have made it so relatively well through the first half of the coronatide. I think it's because we have a pretty responsible population. So we take every opportunity to reiterate the call to follow the recommendations. And now I just got a chance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145031	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145031-2	Yes, it is true that many have listened to these recommendations. But we have this particular problem anyway. I find it hard to believe that the fact that they are being repeated once again should make the big difference. But now the Minister also said in his final speech that he would take some new initiatives. Can the Minister comment on what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145052	I listed what ongoing initiatives we had taken and then I said that we are, of course, open to possible new initiatives. And then I just turned down two things. One was to claim that the police have a fear of touch, and the other was that we will sit in circles with imams to get the message out, because I fear that we will build up some authorities that will not be built up. Authorities are addressed to citizens. We do not need an intermediary of religious authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145120	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. To conclude the debate, it is now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the rapporteur of the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145131	Thank you. Well, I'm not going to prolong the debate so much. I just think it belongs to me that when you're a questioner, you go straight up and finish, at least very briefly. Thank you to those who have participated, and that is not because we must not gather so many people that we are not so many in the Assembly; it is just because people have left. Thank you to the two who are at least here from the Danish People's Party, New Citizens' Party, Rosa Lund from Enhedslisten, Left and Social Democratic Party. I think that is a pity in such a debate, but that is the way it is, as people have to do. I just think you could have been fully involved. I just have to say that I have to say a few things, because I very much agree with the last remarks about the proposals for adoption made by the Social Democrats, together with its red parties, from the Social Democrats to the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, so this just has to be translated into ten different languages, right? Then you get it out there, that is to say, you have to follow the guidelines and what you are calling for, etc., etc. Then we just send it out in ten different languages, and then it's home; then there's no problem anymore or what? I do not really believe in it, and I have to admit that I think it is lax in relation to what at least the Social Democrats have been saying, and that is also a bit of what I hear from the platform here, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund and from the Minister. If at least some here, as rapporteurs, are trying to belittle this by saying that it is everyone's problems and that we agree on it and that we share it, etc., then I just have to ask: what challenges are there with societies other than Muslims? There are not the challenges to which we have used this debate and many other debates; there is just not. And there's just as much material about this as you could use the time limit, but you've also been on the Berlingske Tidende's side visiting Ishøj after this report was published. So, especially in the West, there is a very big problem, and there you have talked to a lot of people out there with other ethnic backgrounds. They don't want their name in the paper, so it's saying that you've met across generations during the crisis, and that you're still kissing and still handshaking. With the hairdressers they still gathered, and also before it became legal to visit their hairdresser again; they say themselves that they just do so. And I don't really think they say that to provoke the Berlingske Tidende journalist; I just think they say: Well we just do. Well, that's it, 'cause that's what's at the heart of this whole thing. I do not know how much this debate can go, but at least now we have had it and tried to raise the problem. And I must say that I am very much looking forward to the fact that there are more members of parliament in the Chamber during such a debate, and it is not only because of the ban on the assembly that there are not so many, I must repeat again, also in relation to listeners in the seats. Fortunately, however, we are bringing Parliament's television, and I hope that many have been involved in this debate, because I think it has indeed been important. But thank you to the other parties who have taken part in this debate on long stretches, I think it has been quite good, and that is the purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520145449	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 26 May. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150117	I have to inform you that by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl under no. 19 questions put to the Minister for Children and Education, Question No. S 11 is deleted at the request of the author. Then I should also like to say that there are a great many questions for the Minister of Justice, and that is why we will take the first hour with questions for the Minister of Justice, and then we will continue with questions for the other ministers. The first question is to the Minister for Justice of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150207	Why does the Minister think that the opening of the Danish-German and Danish-Norwegian borders should depend on what is happening in Sweden, which, as you know, has chosen a different strategy towards corona virus than Denmark, Germany and Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150223	Thank you for the question. As the questioner also says, it is no secret that Sweden has chosen a different approach in the fight against corona virus than we have in Denmark, nor is it a question of reopening the borders with Germany or Norway depending on the situation in Sweden, but I think it is natural and right that we in Denmark should be in dialogue with our neighbouring Nordic countries about it. This also applies to Sweden, where the border issue means a lot to a lot of people in the Øresund region. But when we have to open up further, we have to do it wisely and we have to do it controlled, because we do not want to risk the spread of the infection again, and basically it is about what risk one is willing to take. The government's position is that we should be careful, and I am therefore, as I said, in dialogue with my colleagues in Germany and the Nordic countries on the border issue. Among other things: In the light of these discussions, the Government will decide by 1 June at the latest on temporary border controls with entry bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150333	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150335	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. I would just like to repeat, for the sake of order, what we are actually up against, because, as I have said, we are again standing here on the third Wednesday in a line and we have reached a point in the tourist season where it is no longer 107 million. kr., tourism up the west coast of Jutland among others. loses in daily turnover, no, now it's actually 200 million. kr., Denmark is losing its daily turnover because we maintain a hermetic closure of the borders of tourists' ability to cross the border. I am glad that the Minister is replying as openly as I am hearing here and that, when we come to an opening, this must of course be done wisely and controlled, which I fully agree with. That is why I was very happy when the Minister, the last time we were here, gave the opening that one might consider a lease for a Danish holiday home or a campsite as what we call a worthwhile purpose. That is why it seems strange to me somewhere when I learn that the government, as I see it, places a proportionate emphasis on ensuring that when there is an opening, it is an opening of both the Danish-German border, the Danish-Swedish border and the Danish-Norwegian border. I simply do not understand the wisdom of that, I must confess honestly, and that is why I have to ask the Minister something and come back to this for a worthwhile purpose. When does the Minister think it would be wise to consider a lease as a worthy purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150533	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150534	After all, it is a good thing that we will have the opportunity to talk about the border issue on this Wednesday as well as, I am sure, the future. Because it is not the case that the position is that all borders must be opened simultaneously. What is the position, and I think the questioner and the author's party share that view, is that we should talk and coordinate with the other countries, but that is not the same as saying that, out of it, there should be a decision that it should be done exactly the same way at the opening to Sweden that we had to open to Germany or Norway. So if the understanding of what I have said has been that this coordination, this conversation, dialogue means that we have to open it all at the same time and in the same way, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150624	Thank you. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150625	I should just like to point out to the Minister, for the sake of order, that I do not want to stand here next Wednesday and repeat the same questions again, and the Minister has a great deal of influence on this, as the Minister can only listen with the government and with the Prime Minister in the lead to the majority of the Folketing who are actually asking the government to make such a wise and controlled opening of the border. So my question is: what does the Minister think about what is being discussed in another room here at Christiansborg at this very moment, when there is actually a majority against the government on this whole issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150706	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150707	When you are a minister and there we share experience, you always become responsive when there is a majority in the Folketing that wants something. I am not sure I know all the details, but as I understand it, the majority that is referred to is a majority that agrees that something needs to be done in relation to the borders, but not about what needs to be done. As I understand it, but it may be that I am wrong, the Radical Left will move much faster than the other parties in the majority in relation to the opening of borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150743	Now we need the co-questioner on the line, and this is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150749	I have no need at all to stand here on Wednesday after Wednesday and ask the Minister roughly the same questions, but we have to do so when the Minister does not reply clearly or act on what is the political desire. But now we got so clear that the opening to Norway, Sweden and Germany does not have to go together, and I shall then hear what it means for the Minister's view of opening the border between Denmark and Germany, when we know that the pressure of infection and behaviour are similar. There are very good relationships, for example. in Schleswig-Holstein. Does that make the Minister now say: yes, we can get the border open to Germany fine?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150831	Nor was it because I have anything against the questioner or the co-questioner, nor was it because I had a strong desire to stand here again next Wednesday it was just a cautious prognosis. So don't take it that way. Well, we have been about it sometimes, and I really think that I am trying to answer it may well be that it is not enough what is real, namely that we want to coordinate with the other countries. And one of the things that is relevant when we look at how we can open when we can open is how the pressure of infection is. It is also, of course, and I very much agree with that in reality, how the expectation will be that those we let into our country will have a behavior similar to that shown by the Danes. Because the finding is that behaviour is one of the things that is really essential for the infection not to spread, so we have it as well as we currently have. Of course, some of the things that are relevant are also, I think, how large a number can be expected to come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150941	Thank you for that! Here you go, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520150942	So I would like to ask: how many do the Minister expect there to be a border opening? In other words, when I asked about last Wednesday, the Minister was a little pissed off at me, although the Minister himself began to talk about the fact that it was not only the pressure of infection but also the number. After all, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has said, we are faced with the challenge of a tourist industry that is simply bleeding enormously in turnover losses every day, but we are also faced with a number of separate families because everyday life in the border country is that families live cross-border and cross-border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151019	Thank you! Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151020	I really feel that the problem of tourism is different from the problem of what is mentioned here at the end, i.e. couples and so on. I actually believe that if you weigh it up on the criteria: how many people are involved, what is the pressure of infection, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151057	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. And that's the questioner. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151103	I am very, very pleased that the Minister here emphasizes that the government is of course sensitive to a broad majority in the Folketing, which wants to open the border. That is why my question to the Minister for Justice is whether the Minister for Justice intends to follow the majority in the Folketing who wants to open the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151130	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151131	Well, I haven't, and the government has no intention whatsoever of keeping the border closed longer than the maximum necessary. We are in dialogue with neighbouring countries. We're thinking. As recently as today, the State Serum Institute has made new recommendations. We are constantly trying to move towards being able to make the decision. And it is clear that by 1 June at the latest we will be reporting on the question of opening our borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151158	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. I would like to recommend that we keep to the speaking time, because there are a great many questions for the Minister of Justice and, as I said at the outset, perhaps more than can be within one hour. The Minister of Justice may not go over with more than one question. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151224	Thank you. When the website police.dk, run by the National Police, on Sunday 10 May 2020, stated that it is not illegal for zoos, safari parks and amusement parks to stay open, nor is it illegal to visit them, and on 29 April 2020 it appeared that zoos, safari parks and amusement parks are allowed to stay open, and you are allowed to visit them, the Minister would agree that the National Police have approved zoos etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: S 971 from the questioner on Wednesday 29 April 2020 said that the National Police has not approved the opening of the zoos?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151320	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151321	I'll try to answer it faster. First of all, I would like to make it clear that zoos and the like must, under the current rules, keep their outdoor areas closed to the public and, if the rules are not complied with, they can be fined. The rules do not include so-called safari parks understood as zoos, where the public transports themselves by car. Until 11 May, keeping open was not a criminal offence for zoos. However, zoos are covered by the general ban on gathering more than ten persons. The rules do not contain a permit system where the police must approve that, for example, a store or a zoo is open. The police, on the other hand, provide guidance on how to enforce the rules. It seems to me, therefore, not that the National Police have approved the opening of zoos or have not approved the opening of zoos, but that the police in particular have approved the opening of zoos. The passages that were read have guided the rules. And back in April 2020, it was not a criminal offence for zoos to keep open. Zoological gardens, however, have kept closed, which has helped reduce the spread of infection in society by supporting that we keep a distance and not gather many. I think there is reason to sign off on this to the zoos. A gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark, which is still in full swing, was launched in mid-April. Of course, that approach will be challenged if there is an uncoordinated opening up of too many activities involving too many people, and it was considered that, in order to avoid uncontrolled spread of infection, opening up, among other things, would be inappropriate. zoos which had so far been closed. Against this background, a number of zoos put the otherwise planned opening on hold and thus contributed to the responsible reopening of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151527	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151529	Thank you for your answer. I recognize that the question is somewhat like this: will the Minister confirm that a bench in a garden can also be called a garden bench? For it is relatively logical to say that when the National Police writes that you can stay open and that people are also allowed to visit a zoo, it is the same as saying that it is approved. Well, it's the National Police who is responsible for the website police.dk, and the things that stand on the side of the National Police are that there are some things that can be kept open and that then there are some things that cannot be kept open. As far as the things that can be kept open are concerned, the National Police have approved that they remain open, and as far as the things that are not allowed to remain open are concerned, the National Police have not approved that they remain open. That is why the Minister's answer is rather strange, because it is said that there is no such written approval from the National Police. Yes, there is. Well, a website is also writing. The website says loud and clear that you can stay open and that people can visit a zoo. Can we not agree that, on the basis of a common linguistic understanding, when some say that you may, they have thereby approved that you do what you are allowed to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151651	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151652	But that's not exactly how it works with those composite nouns. Well, a horse is strictly taken neither a river nor a horse, and it's kind of the same here. The rules do not provide for an authorisation system in which the police have to approve, for example: A store or a zoo is open. So there is no such approval system. The National Police, on the other hand, provide guidance on how to enforce the rules, so it is not a question of whether the National Police approved the opening of zoos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151730	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151730-2	But now I know that the Minister for Justice knows the background very well, and the background was that it was legal for zoos to keep open. And then the Minister for Justice and his colleague, the Minister for Industry, went out and said: we think this is something worse; it may well be that you can, but we still think that you should not. That is why I ask: is it not right that they should be allowed to do so? And then we get an answer from the Minister of Culture, saying that the National Police have not approved that they remain open. It should therefore be borne in mind that, as a minister, you have a responsibility to ensure that what you say is not only true from some technical point of view, but that it is also adequate so that we can actually understand what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151809	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151810	Unfortunately, the record of the process is correct. When we began to open and there were activities that could in fact be legally open, there were some who said: Now we are opening up again, and then we are opening up. There I myself was one of those who was nervous that it ran away from us, and therefore I recommended among others. zoos to keep closed. Because even if something is legal, it is not certain that it is wise. That, of course, is also why the parties in the Folketing broadly agreed on the opening stages, saying that here we have to take a step backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151848	Thank you. Then we will have a fellow inquirer on the field, and that is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151854	Thank you. Now the minister says that the text that was on the National Police website was a guide. I would call it a misdirection, because I understand that the zoos that have read that text have understood that they had to keep open. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister think that this has been an appropriate communication from the authorities and, in this case, the National Police?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151924	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520151925	Actually, I don't think there's much to blame the National Police for. The National Police guided the rules as the rules were. What I was trying to say, without saying it quite clearly, was that what happened was that in the first opening there was a nervousness that the opening was going to go too fast and that we were therefore going to have to take a step back again and close some of the activities that we were opening and therefore, together with other zoos, I recommended keeping closed. Subsequently, a regulatory regime has been established which means that outdoor areas in zoos are closed to the public at the stage we are at now, whereas zoos, when we enter stage three, can keep everything else open again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152021	Mrs. Britt Baker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152022	But it is easy enough to stand here and look at what has happened afterwards. The fact is that zoos at any given time are told that they can stay open. That is the message they have to deal with, and we must hope that I can agree that the guidelines laid down by the authorities must be understood. They must be understood, especially in a crisis situation like the one we are in now. So does the Minister admit that it has caused confusion, that it has been a zigzag course, that so different have been reported from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152058	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152059	Actually, I don't think the rules of the National Police were unclear. I think the wording that was read out by the main questioner before is clear enough, namely that zoos could really keep open. However, as I have tried to say sometimes now, it was also the case that when the zoos which chose to keep closed, so they themselves took the initiative to open, we shouted in arms and subsequently became broad, also with the party of the questioner, agreed to say: this is probably not one of the activities that we want to have going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152133	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152137	If I am to try to sum up, that is to say, the Minister agrees that zoos should be kept open in such a way. The police had written that they were allowed to stay open. The police had approved it, not by such an authorisation system, but it was an approved act to open. Unfortunately, I heard the floor from the Minister's mouth. I thought that was nice. That almost sounded like a regret. Unfortunately, the course of action had been correctly described by me, and it was a zigzag course: some people do something they can, and the minister goes out and tells them to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152211	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152211-2	The first two elements of what the questioner said were quite right. Then it came to the conclusion that it was approved, which is what the question is about. But there was no approval in the individual cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152228	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more questions in this round. Then it is Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3 to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152300	Does the Minister believe that the extension of the existing temporary border controls is still absolutely necessary with the new information provided by the Statens Serum Institute of 14 May 2020, or will the Minister take the initiative to amend, for example: border controls to Germany as demanded by several mayors, companies and summer cottage owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152325	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152326	Thank you for the question. Let me begin by saying that I have a great deal of understanding and sympathy for the desire to reopen the borders as soon as possible. I would also like to reiterate that the government has no desire to keep the borders closed any longer than is necessary. It is therefore also very positive that the right way is now being taken in Denmark and the right way in several of our neighbouring countries, so that we are now in a situation where we can look at the reopening of borders. But I would like to stress that, in the view of the government, the opening of borders must be done wisely and controlled. Anything else would be irresponsible. Basically, it is about the risk one is willing to take, and the attitude of the government is that we should be careful. So, yes, the government's position is at present still that entry restrictions are necessary, but the government is of course looking at how the good developments allow us to re-open our borders wisely, and we are also listening to the parties of the Folketing. I am also in dialogue with my colleagues in Germany and the Nordic countries on the border issue. In the light of these discussions, the Government will, as indicated in the agreement with the Danish Parliament's parties on the reopening of Denmark, take a position on temporary border controls with entry bans by 1 June at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152451	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152452	I believe that the Minister and I fully agree that health considerations are, of course, very important. They are. The Minister also knows that I myself am very concerned about health in the time we are in, among other things. Because I myself may be at risk. The question is, where are these health considerations? When is the government gonna put them out? The Minister has previously leaned on a number of health experts, including: those who spoke in the Information article on 9 May, and they then say today in Jutland-Posten that you can then open. So what kind of straw is it that the Minister and the government are grasping, which makes it absolutely necessary to maintain the extension of existing temporary border controls? And does the Minister think it is as necessary today as it was on 14 March?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152543	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152544	First of all, I would like to arrest the fact that I am grabbing for a straw, because it is implicit that I should be interested in keeping the borders closed against better knowledge. That is not the case. Secondly, it is true that there were a number of experts who had spoken to Information and then today have spoken to Jyllands-Posten. And from 9 May to 20 May, it has to be said that the experts at least to a certain extent change their views, which is, of course, the privilege and right of an expert. I will return to the other two elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152622	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152624	What the experts, among other things, are doing. states that they were not quite correctly quoted in the first article. That was probably more that than the fact that they have changed their minds. I would therefore just like to ask the Minister whether he believes that maintaining the extension of existing temporary border controls is just as necessary today as it was on 14 March when the borders were closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152652	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152653	Yes, but as the questioner, who is a hard-working man and I know that from many others, I had almost said bitter experiences, but at least many other experiences are well known, we now have the supplementary report of 20 May 2020, that is to say today's date, when the Statens Serum Institut is also dealing with the border issue, and when it is said that the possible opening of borders may lead to infected people entering the country and thus to the possibility of starting new chains of infection that may have an impact on the pressure of infection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152724	Here you go, Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152724-2	The report by the Statens Serum Institute today, to which the Minister refers, does not say that there may be, and it is not new that there may be. This was also the case when day institutions, schools, post-schools, etc. were opened. There is also a risk associated with the additional opening measures that are likely to be taken later today. But because people have behaved so sensibly, followed the guidelines on distance and hygiene, the infection has been decreasing, despite the fact that more has been opened up. So does the Minister agree that if those crossing the border follow common sense and the guidelines, there are no health warnings against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152807	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152809	It also says something else. The State's Serum Institute says the important thing about what has been said many times, namely that if the pressure of infection is the same in two places, one can safely open up that it is not that simple. The number also means something. If, for example, you're gonna have to... There will be a number of those who are statistically infected who are opening up to one million German tourists or how many of them are now. The part of those who are then infected will be able to start new chains of infection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152845	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Hegaard. Then we should welcome the previous questioning team, and first of all that is Question No. 4 to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152901	When does the Minister expect a lease for a holiday home in Denmark to be a recognised purpose for German tourists?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152907	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520152910	Thank you for the question. Let me begin by stating that I have a great deal of understanding for the challenges posed by border controls and restrictions on entry for the Danish tourist industry and the many summer house owners who have rented their summer homes to foreign guests. This applies in general to this crisis, it must be said that it has hit a great many people and professions very hard. This is particularly true in relation to cottage tourism, which affects local communities. Of course, I understand the demand for a clear date to address, and we are obviously listening to what is being said by the parties, just as we are in dialogue with our neighbouring countries, so that we can make a wise, controlled and gradual opening when the time comes. On the other hand, as both the Prime Minister and I have said in recent days, it would be sensible to look at what is worthy of recognition, so that we do not just say that everything must either be closed or that everything must be open, and that is the model that I actually hear that more parties, as well as our previous questioning rounds, agree. If we are talking about a model where it is about people coming to Denmark as tourists and where it can help local communities, then I think it is a sensible approach. But right now the government is pursuing the plan agreed with the Danish Parliament's parties for a reopening in which we will report by 1 June. Then I would just like to repeat that the government has no desire to maintain the current entry restrictions for longer than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153041	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. But we just didn't get much smarter about when a lease would be a worthwhile purpose. Thank you to the Minister for all the sympathy and understanding for all the challenges this creates, but it does not solve the problem for a tourist industry that is bleeding completely and the huge employment challenges you are experiencing, for example along the West Coast. So my question to the Minister is: when? What is the Minister's position on when a lease can be well accepted as a worthy purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153121	But here we are a little back to what we talked about earlier, namely that the decision we are making is, of course, taking a number of different conditions, including a dialogue with neighbouring countries, including parameters that we have also mentioned, pressure of infection, the number of visitors to be expected and so on. As the questioner himself said in an earlier question: there are different worthy purposes, and it is not the case that one worthy of recognition also means all worthy of recognition and then we can just open up. It is, of course, the overall package of an opening up of Denmark that we must look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153204	It is just so unfortunate that the Minister is not talking about what can happen in relation to the opening of the border. That is why I have to ask: how is the dialogue with the German colleague? What has happened since we had a trip in this Chamber last week? Has any further agreement been reached and has the Minister made it clear to his German colleague what conditions must be met in order to open the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153232	Well, it's not just me who's in dialogue. Other ministers also have dialogue with their colleagues so that we can find a good runway in terms of how we will open the borders again and how that can be done. This applies not only to Germany, but also to the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153256	Thank you. Then there is a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153259	Thank you. As has been said, the Minister acknowledged last week that having a lease for a Danish holiday home or campsite could be a worthwhile purpose and thus provide an opportunity to cross the border. I believe that this will be a controlled way of opening the border, and I understand that the Minister agrees with that. That is why my question is this: what has happened? What has the Minister done in this regard since we were here last Wednesday?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153339	In reality, however, the introduction of the lease can be a worthwhile purpose, perhaps very well illustrated by the way in which we have to behave. For others, it means that sailing here in a yacht and docking in a Danish port is also a worthwhile purpose, or that living in a hotel is also a worthwhile purpose, and the more we open up, the more potential intakes, the greater the risk of new chains of infection being set in motion. That is why, of course, we need to have a reflection on the whole spectrum, just as we also need to see it in the context of the other openings of society, to which there is a great deal of pressure. Right now, our party leaders are negotiating about which parts of society we can now open in the third stage • are there some that can be opened more quickly than we had imagined? This is exactly what this report has come up today and whether I mentioned earlier is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153451	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153452	I am sorry to say that the Minister is not speaking. We agree that a lease can be a worthy of recognition. We also agree that it is a wise one, I think, even though the Prime Minister used the phrase intelligently, but at least controlled the way to open the border. Now I hear that all sorts of other elements are entering into that very discussion and that it gets lost in the fog, what the Minister actually thinks. So: Does the Minister state that it is a worthwhile purpose to have a lease for example? a Danish holiday home, a campsite?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153541	It was not to throw down the fog of lightness on it. Then I think I could have done it more elegantly than that. It was actually just to try to broaden the perspective of what the considerations are and what some considerations need to be taken up when we talk about, for example. holiday homes etc. And I say, as I have said, and as the Prime Minister has said, that one of the things you can look at as a worthy purpose is precisely whether you have a lease or a lease at a Danish summer house.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153610	Then it's the main questioner, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153612	Thank you. I just have to ask: Will German tourists have the opportunity to experience the Pentecost in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153620	See, the answer to that question would, unless the questioner is wondering whether broadcasts from Pentecost in Denmark are being broadcast on German television, which I cannot know, of course implying that I should take a position on the reopening that we have to report by 1 June and do so on a piece-by-piece basis, and that would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153647	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153656	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153659	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the Commission's study to examine the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Inger Køjberg's case of the marriage of older asylum seekers with minors is an indication of proportionality and the right priority in relation to time, money and procedure when Ombudsman's report has already been given in the case in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153726	The commission was set up on 22 January this year on the basis of an agreement between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. According to the terms of reference, the Commission is essentially required to examine two aspects: (1) the separate accommodation of married and cohabiting asylum seekers, one of whom was a minor, and (2) whether the Ombudsman of the Folketing and the Folketing were adequately informed of the case. From my perspective, in other words, the study is about being able to rely as citizens on public action within the framework of the law and that the Folketing must be able to rely on sufficient information. Then the question also points out that the Ombudsman has already investigated the matter. That is true, and there is no reason to reinvent the deep plate, and therefore point 2 of the terms of reference of the Commission of Inquiry also indicated that the Commission is supposed to include the Ombudsman's inquiries to the extent appropriate. Moreover, I shall refrain from commenting on the work of the Commission. The investigation commission is an independent authority, and I have every intention of keeping full arm's length.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520153841	Thank you. For me, the issue of proportionality is very important. Allow me to make a comparison here: Parliament has just proposed setting up a group of experts to spend the next six months examining the progress of the corona crisis. But when it comes to Inger Løjberg, the government and the Red Support Parties have set up this gigantic commission, which will spend a year and a half investigating the question of the separation of child bride from their older men, so one and a half years, as long as it can possibly be, in a matter which is all but less complex than the Corona crisis. We have no idea what the price is. The PET commission knows we cost almost 80 million. kr., and the Tax Commission itself is expected to cost 300 million. kr. What does the government expect to use of the Danish tax crowns on the commission against Inger Løjberg? That is my first question. That question was actually put back in writing in December, but the Danish Parliament did not receive an answer. This may be surprising because the Committee on Inquiry's Committee of Inquiry itself suggests that a task of investigation may be more appropriate and less resource- and time-consuming compared to these very, very expensive and very, very long drawn commissions can be carried out by an ordinary permanent investigation body or one of the many other options, such as one. has chosen with the corona crisis. So my second question is this: why does one choose exactly a commission which is the longest drawn and has the greatest consumption of tax dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154011	However, one of the reasons why the Commission was chosen as a form of inquiry is precisely because, as the Ombudsman himself pointed out in a letter of 8 April to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, there will be evidence, the details of which can only be determined by the actual questioning of the individuals involved. And that is one of the options open to a commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154035	The draft Commission of Inquiry states, and the Minister has already indirectly said so, that the legality of the administration's handling of the case must be investigated and explained, as the Ombudsman's report has already done. But the Commission does not make a final decision or a judgment or a responsibility, and yet Radical Left Kristian Hegaard says in the press release of the Ministry of Justice about the Commission that it is good, because a responsibility has to be placed now, to quote him directly. Does the Minister agree that the Commission does not conclude by placing a responsibility and that even the government's own support party does not therefore understand what this commission is really about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154116	I think I will have little time to explain the views and positions of the Radicals. I think we should leave that to the Radicals themselves. For me, it is crucial here that we examine the simple principle that law is law and that law must be kept. I find it hard to imagine that a conservative of all would disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154142	But then we are left with a situation in which the government has set up a commission which the Minister of Justice has still not answered about how much it costs if it is 10 million. DKK 50 million DKK 100 million kr. And the government's support parties don't even understand what the Commission's work is going to do. So for the government, this isn't really just about doing as long a process as possible, as dirty a process in the media as possible, dragging Inger Løjberg to the fire as slowly as possible, costing what it wants from Danish tax dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154214	No, it definitely doesn't. I would like to say that this has nothing to do with the fact that this is Inger Løjberg, which I consider to be both a good and proper politician and a colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154234	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. There's a co-questioner on the way, but first it's sir. Peter Skaarup for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154247	Thank you. Will the Minister explain in detail the communication error between two guards at the East Jutland Police Department, which allegedly led to no action being taken against the illegal assembly of Muslims to mass prayer in Gellerup?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154319	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154320	I have noted that in the specific case the East Jutland Police have indicated that it was a mistake that the police first arrived at the place after the joint prayer had been held. This meant that the police were unable to intervene. I have been asked a number of questions about the incident in writing. The written replies will explain the progress made. The questions include: made by Pernille Vermund of New Civil and Inger Løjberg of the Left. But I have to say straight away that the police did not arrive at the joint prayer in the Gellerup Park. The National Police have reported that this was due to a misunderstanding between two guards in East Jutland Police, which resulted in the head of the guard at the time of the joint prayer, believing that patrols had been arranged in the Gellerup area. When the error was discovered, a patrol was sent to the scene. However, the patrol car became involved in a car accident on its way to the scene and did not arrive. The general ban on assemblies with more than ten people must be observed, and it is the task of the police to ensure that this happens. The ban on the assembly shall, as a general rule, prohibit the organisation and participation in outdoor and indoor events, events, activities or the like where there are more than ten persons present. This also applies to events such as joint prayer with more than ten participants. Meetings for political or opinion-promoting purposes shall be exempt from the rules on assembly bans. I strongly reject those parts of the immigrant environment that do not comply with the ban on assembly and other restrictions during the corona crisis. This is unacceptable, and there is a risk that we will lose our major joint effort against the corona virus on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154508	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Minister states that there should be no discrimination and that it is clear that the police should have been at the place in question at the time and, I understand from the Minister, should have handed out fines because the distance demands that we have all been told by our authorities should not have been complied with on that occasion, that is, at that request. When I take an interest in this, it is because it is essential in principle that there is equal treatment of citizens in this country. And we have seen a number of examples of the fact that fines have actually been handed out to citizens who, in one way or another, have not complied with the requirements imposed by the authorities. Now there has been a mention of this in the media, among other things. TV2 ØSTJYLLAND referred to the case in question. And according to an article from TV 2 ØSTJYLLAND on the matter, it is said that one is sorry about the criticism, and one recognizes that the effort in relation to the planned joint prayer failed: "We came too late and the car we send comes in a road accident. When the second patrol car we send instead comes to the place, the assembly is disbanded. But is it to be understood, in other words what the Minister says about the incident in question, that this is not the whole explanation, but that there are also some internal communications errors within the police? This is not known in TV2 ØSTJYLLAND's article; there you get the impression that it is a road accident that is really blocking your coming forward. So are we dealing with the fact that the police are really changing the explanation and that the minister here in Parliament's Question Time will then determine what things really are?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154710	Well, I'm not gonna be able to tell you what TV 2 ØSTJYLLAND's article or the overall media picture is. What I can say is that, and I believe that it was provided for the first time by the National Police Commissioner at a meeting where both I and the questioner attended that the National Police have stated that this was due to a misunderstanding between the two chiefs of duty in the East Jutland Police, which led to the fact that, at the time the joint prayer was to take place, the chief of duty thought that patrols had been arranged in the Gellerup area; and as we have noted, the unfortunate fact was that there was a road accident with the patrol car which was then sent to the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154756	But I am glad that the Minister has made it clear here that it is evident that there is a change of explanation. And it is so important that we make it clear that it is the right explanation that there was apparently a lack of communication. When I don't ask a lot about it, it's because if you follow these things, you've both been praying in the public room with speakers who've been driving speakers out of the car, and so this episode of gathering such a little provocative, you might say. It is important that the police are very close to things. And one gets the impression, when they choose to send out a seemingly one patrol car, that it is not a priority, because some groups really want to provoke. Does the Minister agree that this is the impression that can be obtained and that a chain tightening is needed here by the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154848	To draw a picture that police patrols in connection with the corona crisis are inadequate, I do not really think that is quite fair. After all, I think that our police are undertaking an enormous task in these times and that, moreover, we have imposed additional patrols on them to ensure that the new rules of the game, as there are, are actually complied with. There is a mistake here, there seem to be more mistakes here, which explain that this is the way things are going, as it was certainly not intended by the police either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154922	Then it is the co-questioner's turn, and we give the floor to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520154927	Thank you, President. I have also read a little on TV 2 Østjylland's website, and what I think is most striking in reality is the fact that in Århus Vest, which is generally characterised by quite a lot of problems, we have an assembly that has a Muslim prayer meeting where there are more than 30 people present, and then the East Jutland Police team chooses to send one patrol car. I simply cannot understand that, and I would therefore like to know whether the Minister can confirm, on the basis of the information he receives, that this is what has happened. I mean, how could a patrol car with two cops, I suppose, disband an assembly of more than 30 Muslims, probably young men engaged in prayer, in Århus Vest? Is it really true that only one carriage has been sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155031	Well, I basically feel that those who can best assess what is the relevant police action are the police, and I assume that they have also done so in this situation, and thus committed the resources so that the situation that was with the picture that there was could be handled by the police that was made available. On the whole, I think, even in this situation, that we should be careful, because we all owe it to us not to get too far away from the support that our police need in this difficult time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155116	With all due respect, I do not think that the Danish People's Party is the biggest problem for the police in showing respect for the exercise of authority, so I will choose to overhear that remark. No, what is of course worrying is if, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned, simply has one more, what can you say, submissive practice when it comes to the problems that are in Aarhus Vest, for example. the dissolution of such an illegal prayer gathering here. It is, of course, the fear one can have when one can read in the media that they choose to send one patrol car to supposedly dissolve an assembly of more than 30 young men. I think the Minister can see the problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155202	I have no reason at all to believe that the East Jutland Police should allow such an unspeakable element as submissiveness to weigh in their disposal of resources at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155223	Thank you. Then it is the main questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155231	You can always discuss vocabulary, but one thing is certain, and that's that you can get the impression when you hear about this case... where they first choose to send one car, but then when it comes to a road accident, they will send a new car... that they have decided in advance that this should not lead to confrontation in any way. And it can be said that it may sometimes be necessary to take that confrontation if we do not want a situation in which these ghetto areas are becoming bigger and stronger, because it is simply chosen not to take action against clear illegalities, because that confrontation will lead to more manpower and, therefore, they are permissive to this society. This is the big problem here, and that is why the Danish People's Party is addressing the matter. I hope the Minister of Justice understands why we are doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155327	I have no indication whatsoever that the police should have decided that this should not lead to confrontation. I just have to say that I don't actually think it suits the Danish People's Party to call our police submissive and permissive. If there's anything the police have done in this difficult, difficult situation, it's lifting an incredibly large community task on our behalf. I think we owe them respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155357	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you both for asking. Then we move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister of Justice of Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155405	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155406	Is it the view of the Minister that there has been a satisfactory uniform practice in relation to police enforcement of the convention ban of a maximum of 10 people when a fine is first issued to a mother with two children on Islands Brygge, but no fines to an assembly of more than 30 people for joint prayer in Gellerup 2 weeks later?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155434	First of all, I would like to make it clear that, of course, I have the expectation that the police will enforce the rules without distinction as to where they are being violated and whoever the police are facing. However, as I understand it, the two incidents mentioned by the questioner relate to different rules. On the other hand, the incident at Islands Brygge concerned a so-called residence ban. The ban on the assembly means that it is prohibited to organise and participate in events, events, activities or similar activities where there are more than ten persons present and the infringement is punishable by a fine of DKK 2,500. in first-time cases. The convention ban does not cover situations where there is a more random collusion of persons who cannot be said to be an arrangement or the like. Therefore, the ban on the assembly has been supplemented by an access for the police to give instructions that persons who are part of such a gathering should leave the place. The police may issue instructions where more than ten persons are present together in a public place in a manner which, at the discretion of the police, constitutes a particular risk of infection. Failure to comply with an injunction is punishable by a fine of DKK 2,500. in first-time cases. A residence ban is an additional addition to these rules. The police can ban residence in a particular area, that if it is necessary, at the discretion of the police, to prevent the risk of infection, and if, among other things, it is necessary. the rules on the prohibition of assembly are not considered sufficient to prevent the risk of infection. A stay ban may be suspended only for a period of up to 7 days. However, that period may be extended. If the police use that tool, i.e. the residence ban, it is prohibited to stay in the area as far as the word is concerned and that is the case whether you are on the spot as part of an assembly or whether you are alone. Violation of the residence ban is punishable by a fine of DKK 2,500. in first-time cases. Meetings for political or other reasons are exempt from the rules on bans on assembly and residence; I think that goes without saying. As far as the Gellerup event is concerned, I note that, in the specific case, the East Jutland Police have indicated that it was a mistake for the police to arrive at the place only after the Friday prayer was held. This meant that the police were not given the opportunity to intervene. In general, the police have launched a significantly increased patrol with a view to enforcing the assembly ban. However, the police cannot be everywhere at once, but the police are making a great effort to enforce the rules consistently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155717	Thank you for a further statement on the ban on residence and the ban on assembly. Let me ask in a slightly different way: can the Minister understand if there are citizens at home who are wondering that the police are more strict towards a mother, a nurse who on Islands Brygge with two small children breaks the residence ban and gets a fine than they are against a larger assembly in Gellerupparken, who drives cars, honks, drives in both lanes with flags out of the windows in something that is so free, if I may be so free, more like the Middle East than about Denmark? And here, even if you break both the ban on assembly and the demand for proper distance, no fine has been paid. Can the Minister understand if the ordinary Dane sits at home wondering about the different treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155827	Well, I think, and it is my fundamental view as Minister of Justice, that the police should pursue all the violations that are taking place in our country; that all the places where the legislation we have adopted and chosen to sanction sentences is violated, the police must take action against the violations that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155851	I'm very happy about that. Then I just want to hear what the Minister will do to ensure that no similar incidents occur in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155902	After all, we do every day that our police learn from the mistakes that may be made. And in the two cases that have been compared here, it has been recognized by the police that, in the situation that arose with prayer, there was an error, whereas there has been no error in the other situation. That's where the rules have been enforced.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520155925	Well, from the information I've been given, it was warned several hours in advance that this would happen. And we have had mobile devices in the past, among others. Police units in the Gellerup Park in Aarhus. And if it's such that it's impossible for the police to get there and I have great respect for the work the police do every day; there can be mistakes anywhere • the Minister of Justice could then consider setting up these mobile units in the exposed residential areas again. So I would really like to hear the Minister for Justice's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160005	Well, I also have great respect for the work that is being done. There's been a mistake here. I'm not gonna take care of me as Minister of Justice doing police work for the police. That is the point of having a great deal of respect for the work of the police. I would, of course, like to pursue those areas where there are errors and so on, but that I should have to have the police units in the East Jutland Police Department, I think I would be doing something which, on the one hand, would not be very effective and, on the other hand, would be a lack of respect for the work of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160036	Thank you for that and that concludes the question. And then we will have to round up that there is the rule in one hour, and that is actually exactly now, but then it says on my block that it should have been agreed with the minister; I would have liked to confirm that it was an hour plus a question and that it was also agreed with the minister, so there is room for the next question. Is that how I understood it? Then it's a confirmation that there's room for one more question, and that's for the co-questioner. All right, then we should be clear, and the question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160132	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160135	Thank you and also thank you to the Minister. What is the Minister's position on the German Government's request for a reciprocal opening of the Danish-German border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160149	Thank you for the question. I have been in good dialogue with the German Minister for the Interior about the reopening of our common border and, of course, I have full understanding and sympathy for the German statements that they are ready to look at a reopening. Like my German colleague and the questioner, I do not want to maintain the current entry restrictions longer than is most necessary, but at the same time it is essential that the reopening takes place in a cautious, wise and controlled way so that we do not run the risk of putting the good results that we have, I do not think, it would be right just to open up the borders fully at once. I know that is not the approach of the questioner either. That is why the government is looking at how we can re-open the borders in a wise and controlled way right now in dialogue with our neighbours, and on this basis, as has also been agreed with the parties of the Danish Parliament, the government will announce the restrictions on entry by 1 June at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160249	Thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that there is a good dialogue with our neighbours in the south, Germany, because if you look at the situation in Germany, it is quite similar to Denmark if we look at the pressure of infection and the number of infected people stopped up against the number of inhabitants. In fact, Germany is well known to me lower than Denmark. The Germans have also adapted themselves to the recommendations which correspond to what is actually happening in Denmark, and which in fact is what is most important in order not to spread the infection. However, as I hope the Minister will be aware, I would like to make sure that we can cross as quickly as possible, among other things. the Danish-German border. I am looking for all the sources, all the possibilities that I would like to ask about, and that is no exception to what is happening right now, because tourism is also being discussed in the European Union. I understand that the Minister for Justice's colleague, the Minister for Industry, has nodded to, or at least, if it has not yet happened, in the statement that has been given to the Danish Parliament, the intention has been to nod to the guidelines which the Commission has drawn up in order to get tourism going in Europe, including the fact that, as is clearly stated, the guidelines have been drawn up so that the Member States can safely reopen the borders. So these are guidelines to which the Danish Government is nodding. That is why I simply do not understand why the Minister stands so firmly on what we have heard week after week here in the Parliamentary Question Time: a laconic reference to reporting to the many people affected by the closure of the border 160,000 jobs, people of flesh and blood out there who are fighting for their life's work to survive the closure that the government is so firmly committed to. As I said, we are losing in the order of 200 million. kr. in daily turnover because the border is closed. I simply do not understand what is going on in addition to, perhaps, that you will have the right simply to decide. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160529	No, it is certainly not, and I also think that our dialogue demonstrated with all due clarity that it is not just a laconic message, but that we are actually working hard to find out how we can responsibly open the borders. And that includes a dialogue with the surrounding countries. Me and the government aren't sticking to closure. On the contrary, we have also discussed earlier today the possibility, which I myself think is a good way to go, of finding worthy of recognition and of opening up that path, and we can look at it here in stages, just as other contexts have also been opened up in stages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160618	Thank you for your answer. I have to ask something: does the Minister for Justice think that the German Minister for the Interior and the German Government in general are acting irresponsibly when asking for a reopening of the Danish-German border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160638	I am not going to judge the German Government at all, but I can see that they are acting differently than we are doing, even in relation to different countries, in relation to the speed at which they have chosen to open up. This applies to the dialogue they have with the French at the moment, the opening up that has been made to some countries, and there has also been, as far as I remember, but it may be that I am mistaken, not at all closed to some countries. It has been the German Government's case, but Germany's situation is also different from the Danish situation, given the size, circumstances and so on, so I shall not make myself a judge at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160716	The co-author, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, also from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160723	According to the police, only the last 24 hours have been refused 313 at the Danish-German border, and according to the police, the vast majority of them are Germans who just want to spend Christ's ascension on the island of Sild, which is located in the Wadden Sea. What does the Minister think the risk of infection is of Germans driving through a small part of Denmark to board the ferry from Rømø and sailing to Herring?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160754	I think that is a relevant question and something we should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160800	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160801	I would like to sign for the Minister's reply and I hope that the Minister will act quickly because, as I said, this is a very topical problem. Germans are on their way to keep Christ's ascension on the island of Sild, and they simply want a quick and easy way to get to Herring, which they usually use. So thank you very much for the Minister's commitment to open it up, and I hope that instructions to the police will be given very quickly so that there are no further obstacles in the coming days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160835	Yeah, well, it's an old rat I'm dealing with. I can hear that it sounded all wrong, and it wasn't meant like that. Laughter Eva Kjer Hansen There will be several Wednesday questions). I'm not quite sure I'm buying that. What I said was that the problem is new to me, and I actually think that the reasoning about saying that if you're just passing through, maybe it's really very sensible, just as there are a number of Danes driving through Sweden to get to Bornholm. So I just promised to follow up on the matter, I did not promise what the questioner wisely put in his comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160912	Then it is the main questioner, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520160914	That's too bad. That was really, really a pity, because then we will know that there will be no announcement until 1 June. We have heard that song very, very many times on the part of the Minister, so I think that was certainly really, really a pity. This brings me back to something that we have been around in the past, namely this with the meritable purpose. It is a little unclear to me when the Minister will announce whether it is a worthwhile purpose to have a lease and whether it is a wise way of reopening the borders, i.e. if you have a lease for a Danish holiday home or perhaps a campsite or other. The minister himself also mentioned a marina in this regard, and it could also be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161011	There is, in fact, nothing else to say about it but that we will announce this by 1 June at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161020	Thank you to the Left Border Team and thank you to the Minister. The Minister has now served his duty for today, by answering questions for well over an hour, in fact an hour and ten minutes. We have to skip Question No. 9 and No 10 over. They can, of course, be raised again next week if they are timely. That brings us to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, which is for the tax minister, and he is present, and the questioner is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, who will be reading the question in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161058	Thank you, President-in-Office. Will the Minister follow on from last week's reply to Question No 1 by the Minister for Finance? S 1053 denied that Sigga Nolsøe's remarks that one should be a professional social democrat to be an official of the Ministry of Finance had any significance, allowing the Folketing, while respecting full discretion and confidentiality, to examine all applications for the government's in the press very much mentioned recruitment of press and communication staff so as to be able to help the government externally to confirm that these have not happened because they are social democrats, but because there were no better candidates?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161145	Thank you for that, President. The answer to the question is no, and I would like to justify that. Originally the question has been put to the Minister for Finance, but I have promised to answer the question because I am also Minister for the State's Employers' Functions, and since the question concerns some more general issues relating to employment in the state, I have promised to answer it. As I have previously had the opportunity to explain to the Danish Parliament, the official work must of course be recruited on the basis of professional competences. A post must be filled by the candidate who, after an overall assessment, is the best qualified for the post, and this must, of course, be done in accordance with the rules in force. Officials shall professionally and loyally advise and assist the government in office and its ministers at all times in developing and implementing the government and the policy of the Minister. Among other things, it has. It is important for continuity and professionalism, but it is also important for future governments to be confident that they can then be advised by the same office. At the same time, the individual official as a private individual can, of course, be politically active, for example. In other words, be a member of a political party. The individual ministries employ their own officials, and I cannot therefore comment on the specific recruitments in other ministries. However, I have no reason to doubt that the recruitment processes have taken place in full compliance with the rules in force. I therefore see no basis, as I have said, for the applications for the specific posts to be passed on to the Folketing and subject to political control. In this respect, we must also take into account those applicants who were not considered. They have a legitimate expectation that their application will not become known in a wider public, as this will lead to. So my short answer to the question is as I said: no, I do not want to do that. And I understand that the Minister for Finance was of the same opinion when the questioner asked the corresponding question, a week ago I understand it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161350	I can thus confirm that the Minister for Finance and Tax is in line, but I am not entirely convinced that this is a line that the two gentlemen will be particularly proud of in the future. The fact is that this doubt is not just established, it is quite well-founded when, in seven out of the nine new appointments which this government has carried out since it took office, you can point to the political coincidence between the Social Democratic Minister and then the official you have hired, such as the Minister for Social Affairs. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Sten Kristensen, former advisor to Mr. Bjarne Corydon. Then there's the Department of Business, where we have mr. Mads Kolby, who also has a past as a press adviser in the Social Democratic Party. Then there is the Ministry of Culture, where Michael Dahl Nielsen has a past in Roskilde Municipality, where, as you know, Mrs Joy Mogensen was previously mayor. This is how to continue with the Ministry of Children and Education, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, etc. It is clear that it gives a picture of a perfection of power and an arrogance which, of course, not only affects the ministers but also, in fact, affects the official work. That is why we, as a Parliament, of a different part of the division of power than the government, offer that we want to help clear that doubt aside, and if there is nothing to come after, I think that the Minister should actually accept the extended hand, that we want to set up a committee with a representative from each party. The Social Democratic Party should also be welcome, and the red parties that are leaning on should be quite welcome. The only argument that can be put forward against the generous proposal is, of course, if there is something to come for, in other words, that these seven out of nine recruitments have actually taken place on an unspeakable basis, because one would like to have a party comrade.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161553	I don't really think there was a question, and that's quite fair. I am fully in line with the statements made by the Minister for Finance on the same subject. What I can say is this at a more general level, since I am responsible, not for state recruitment, but for the framework of state recruitment: there is nothing to be done at all. They are employed on the basis of what is required, namely the overall assessment that it is the best candidate for the position in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161632	Then I would just like to ask you briefly, since you have chosen this kamikaze course: who carried out the conversation with Mr. Kamikaze? Sten Kristensen in the minister's ministry? Was the Minister himself part of the recruitment talks? Were there other interviews with other candidates who had applied? In anonymised form, could you be told which CV the candidates in question had sent to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161657	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt can ask all the questions that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will. We'd be happy to answer those questions. I do not think there will be anything new in relation to what has been asked in the past, so Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is quiet. In relation to the recruitment in question, the recruitment process has been carried out as it is done, led by the Head of Division in what is called Stab and Kommunikation, with the assistance of the Minister's office and with the involvement of the Head of Department. That is how it has been done, on the basis of the overall assessment, which is also the basis of other recruitments, and which, I assume, has also been the case in previous governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161744	The questioner with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161746	So the tax minister has not been presented to Mr. Sten Kristensen's application before a decision has been made? And can the Minister say 'and he does not necessarily have to answer today, because the Minister is only a minister in his own area' that the same applies to the Minister for Industry, the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Children and Education, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior? Here, too, there are social democrats employed in the posts that, I hope, have been carried out according to only objective criteria. So, was the Minister submitted to Sten Kristensen's application before the decision was taken and was there a similar process in the other ministries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161826	The answer is no. And in relation to the other ministries, as I said, I have no basis for believing that the rules have not been followed. Those who have chosen to hire are the people who, on the basis of the overall assessment, are judged to be the best for the jobs. And if you have any questions about it, as has been the custom, I understand, you have to call the ministers concerned to a question about it, or you can ask written questions. Morten Messerschmidt We do). That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161852	Thank you to the Secretary of State for today's efforts. So we have come to Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party It is for the Minister for Health and the elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161910	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that there should be municipalities which state that they cannot comply with the care home guarantee because the craftsmen cannot be allowed to refurbished the empty dwellings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520161922	We have introduced restrictions on visits to, among others. nursing homes to protect a group of particularly vulnerable citizens from infection with covid-19. These restrictions are an important tool for reducing the risk of new infection chains with potentially serious consequences for residents. However, employees of nursing homes or persons who come into nursing homes to provide goods or services are not subject to these visitor restrictions. This group is therefore exempt from the visiting restrictions because there is a need to allow a minimum level of access to the nursing homes, not only for the sake of the daily care, care and necessities of the residents, but also for the sake of housing operations. There are neither rules in the Code of Epidemics nor in the notice of restrictions on visits which prevent craftsmen from repairing empty nursing homes, but both craftsmen and other persons who come to provide goods or services must of course observe the general health guidelines on, among other things, health care. distance and hygiene, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162032	So that means that when several municipalities have announced that the current ban on access at care centres also applies to craftsmen, they do not have the legal basis for it, if I understand the Minister correctly. And if I understand the Minister correctly, that means that the municipalities must comply with the care home guarantee and craftsmen must have access to come in and renovate the homes. It is the case today that visitation to a foster home often only occurs when the elderly are extremely weakened and are no longer able to cope at home, or when any roommate's relatives no longer manage the care assignment. And often prior to the visitation there has been a long period of increasing physical and mental impairment, so it is essential to ensure the necessary care and care, security and safety, quality of life and maintenance of function level, that the care home is allocated as soon as possible. I would therefore like the Minister to confirm here today that the care home guarantee must be maintained and that craftsmen have access to enter and renovate empty nursing homes. I have been asked a number of questions on this issue and I would like the Minister to contact the municipalities to clarify this, i.e. that the care home guarantee has not come out of effect and that craftsmen can come in and renovate nursing homes, so that we can ensure that when you need a foster home, there is also a foster home. The Minister can give a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162213	It is the case that all employees and persons who go to nursing homes to provide goods or services are not considered to be visitors, so they are not subject to the visiting restrictions mentioned above. This means that people who provide goods and services, including craftsmen who are asked about here, should, of course, observe the normal guidelines for visits to care centres on distance and hygiene, etc., but they are therefore not subject to visit restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162250	This is, of course, a repetition of what the Minister said in the first place. Now, as rapporteur for the elderly, when I am asked in this area that there are some challenges, when it is said that you cannot comply with the care home guarantee, because you cannot come in and renovate these nursing homes, I would like the Minister to clarify it, so send word out to the municipalities that the care home guarantee has not therefore come out of effect, and that craftsmen are allowed to come in and renovate according to the current guidelines, as there are today.I suppose it shouldn't be that difficult so that we can ensure that the care home guarantee is maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162327	May I not urge that, if there are any specific questions, what I understand there are, if some specific issues here are sent over, because then I will look at it, and then I would be very, very happy to respond to it as soon as possible, because it has to be so that there is no doubt about it. This is a new country for everyone, and I cannot deny that there are some places in some municipalities where some mistakes have been made, but I am only interested in them being corrected as soon as possible. So I would very, very much like to see the specific cases that the questioner has and therefore also act on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162404	Well, it's so simple. After all, the minister can send out a letter to the municipalities that the care home guarantee has not gone out of effect and that craftsmen have access to nursing homes if they are to renovate. Of course, they must follow the guidelines in this area. But I understand that the Minister will not. The Minister will have some examples first, because the Minister obviously does not believe that there are challenges in this area. The simplest thing would then be to clarify to the municipalities that the care home guarantee must be maintained and that craftsmen have access to the renovation of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162444	The Code of Epidemics provides for a local derogation from the time limit for the allocation of nursing homes in connection with the handling of covid-19, if necessary on the basis of an assessment of the municipality's overall care and staff capacity and a concrete and individual assessment has been made in relation to the individual citizen and his or her need for help. So that is possible. However, as I said at the outset, in my introduction, visiting restrictions should not stand in the way of artisans being able to prepare nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162516	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It is for the Minister for Health and the elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162527	Now I want to follow up on the answer I just received there, because that was something quite different, but I must do so in writing, because then the care home guarantee has gone out of effect in relation to what the Minister says. But the second question is: how and when will the Minister ensure that the agreement in the area of older people under the covid-19, including on extra cleaning for older citizens, will be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162548	Thank you. If the President-in-Office will allow me, I must begin by commenting on the conclusion drawn from the questioner on the previous question, because it cannot be concluded that it has come to an end. There is a concrete local possibility for it after a specific individual assessment if the municipality's total resources, including the municipality's own resources, are available. staff, require that you have to act on it. Then, on an individual basis, it is possible to opt out of the deadline. That's where we are. However, as I have said, the offer is that I would very, very much like to look at specific requests so that we can get it out. On the issue that we are now getting to on the agenda, I would like to say that I am pleased with the agreement and also thank you for the constructive participation of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I think we are all concerned that the agreement will be implemented as quickly as possible so that our weakened elderly will benefit from the many good initiatives. On 12 May, Tuesday of last week, therefore, I wrote to all 98 municipal councils to draw attention to the content of the agreement, and I called on the municipalities to start thinking now about how to ensure locally the restoration of the necessary aid for the elderly, who have had to live temporarily without or with only limited help. In the letter, I have also stressed the importance of the local authorities being aware that the period of restrictions on aid may have left behind a backlog, particularly in relation to cleaning, and that therefore municipalities must offer the citizens concerned a thorough cleaning, as is also stated in the text of the agreement. I have just referred to the text, and then I have referred to the government agreement with KL of 26 March 2020 on actions relating to the economy of municipalities in the light of the covid-19. We also need to get the formal arrangements in place, and that is why we need 165 million. kr., as contained in the agreement, out to work. This requires an act, and it was endorsed by the Parliamentary Finance Committee on 14 May, that is to say on Thursday last week. The funds are translated into the block grant act this summer, but they can already make use of the funds in advance in the individual municipalities. It was also part of the agreement that the Danish Health Authority should draw up clear guidelines for staff, residents and relatives, and these came into place on Tuesday 12 May. This means that high pressure has been worked on in ministries and agencies to get the agreement working.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162815	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President must correct the questioner if he does not read out his text and the President must also advise the Minister to answer the questions underneath. But I assume that it is okay if we say that the President takes responsibility for the little extra dialogue that has been here, and then we move on to the second round of the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520162839	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to ensure that that agreement is followed up. One is to send a letter to the municipalities, but another is to follow up on the fact that it also happens, i.e. that you are also offered the extra cleaning, more thorough cleaning, precisely because it has been cut away. 84 per cent. of the municipalities, aid has been reduced. Another point I would like to refer to in relation to that agreement is that of visiting the care centres outdoors, and the Minister has replied that he cannot answer how many municipalities have not yet opened up for visits. But another challenge is that some of the care centres have apparently banned curfews. This means that residents of nursing homes living in their own homes cannot be allowed to go out. Yesterday there was just an article, for example. on Nyborg Municipality. Here Claus Dupont and the other residents of the care centre are not allowed to leave the matrimony, while the residents of the care centre in Odense and Assens Municipalities are not subject to a general curfew. In Faaborg-Midtfyn Municipality the residents may go out into the city, but then they will have 14 days of isolation afterwards. This in itself is a challenge, and Elders The lawyer of the case says: Legally, it is very questionable that there are municipalities and care centres that are not strict on the law and generally do not allow residents to leave the care centres. This is illegal detention, says lawyer in the Elders Case, Charlotte Avnsted-Vilman. I would really like to hear the Minister's answer to that. 'Cause that's a problem, isn't it? Under urgent legislation, I asked the Minister the question as to whether he would have to leave his home, and the Minister clearly replied that the rules were applicable to inside visits and that as a resident of the nursing home he would like to leave the home. You had to visit, you had to go to a funeral. So I would like to hear what the Minister intends to do if what is going on in practice is that one has simply been instructed not to go on the basis of one's own home and that one should not leave the matrix. Will the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163100	Yeah, I'd love to. There is nothing changed from the answer I gave to the questioner in connection with the emergency law. We are moving, what can we say here outside the question. Yes, the question is about the follow-up to the Older People's Agreement, and this is a completely different question from what has been asked. In other words, if I am to make a legal assessment of a practice that I am not aware of, I have to ask the questioner to send it in writing so that we can assess it in concrete terms so that my lawyers can assess it. The questioner knows that too. When a minister is in the Chamber, it must be on legally safe grounds, and therefore it is quite reasonable that we should ask for it in writing so that we can have a legally clear assessment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163145	The Minister is entitled to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163147	Yes, yes, the Minister is entitled to do so, but what I am asking for is precisely about having visitors, and it is also about the agreement we have reached in the past on urgent legislation in relation to reopening. So this is entirely within the framework of the Minister's reply that, of course, one has the right to leave one's home. The Minister cannot then answer whether he is going to be in solitary confinement afterwards, nor can the Minister answer whether it is not detention if he tells the residents that they must not leave the land register of the nursing home. Can't the Minister answer that in this round?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163225	We may have a long discussion and something like this, but let us now focus on the issue of how to ensure that the agreement is implemented. That is what the question is about, and that is what my answer has done, that is how we ensure it and how we work with it. If there are specific doubts about the law of individual care centres, then I have to have complete clarity as to what that rule is. If there is a rule that sounds illegal, then I have to, before I can make such a decision, and before I can assess it, have that rule quite clearly ahead of me and also have our lawyers review it. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163316	After all, the Minister himself sent the answer under urgent legislation that you should be allowed to leave your home. So how hard can it be to answer in a Question Time? But then I'll have to send it over in writing. Then I have to ask the Minister how exactly the Minister will ensure that the agreement we have reached in the area of the elderly is respected and followed, including that the municipalities as a starting point ensure visits to all the care centres. The Minister has not been able to answer that question as to whether it has happened. No, the Minister has not been able to reply to that in a written reply I have received. Here the Minister cannot explain which nursing homes and municipalities have opened up for visits, and the Minister must be able to reply to this and also find out whether the agreement has been reached and offer extra cleaning services for those who have lacked extra cleaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163411	Of course, this agreement must continue to be followed up, and we will do so all the way through from the Ministry, and I explained in my initial reply what has happened in relation to a letter to all municipalities, an act through the Danish Parliament, new restrictions and new guidelines from the Danish Health Authority. As a follow-up to my letter to all municipalities, I also asked KL to make a statement about visits, just with the addition that we are talking about outdoor visits, so it is with regard to outdoor visits that have been opened up and possibly build something up in this context, as the agreement accurately describes. But I have asked for a statement on this. So that way we will follow up on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163458	Thank you for that both to the questioner and to the Minister for Health and the elderly. We can now go to Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 14, which is also for the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and the questioner is Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163510	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163513	Thank you very much. And the question is: does the Minister think that it is an offensive test strategy when, according to an article in JP on 16 May, white test tents are half empty?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163528	We have established TestCenter Denmark to be able to test significantly more and thus support the gradual reopening of the country. The test capacity in the social track has been established and expanded within the few weeks of the work, and 10,000 daily tests can now be carried out in this community track. At the same time, we have managed, through joint efforts throughout Denmark, to bring the spread of infection in society down to a very low level. In addition, the low pressure of infection means that the pressure on our test capacity is not so great. This also means that we now have free test capacity to further support the reopening of Denmark, which is precisely the purpose of the national test strategy. Tests in combination with infection detection must support reopening and ensure that the spread of infection is reduced so that we can resume activity in society in a safe way. This is why we have decided to open up the possibility that adults Danes can decide to be tested and book time for testing in the test tents without first having to have a referral from the doctor or employer. The daily test capacity is, as I said, up to 10,000 tests in the tents, and we are ready to further increase the test capacity if necessary. However, as everyone seems to know, this requires us to be able to secure the necessary additional resources for staff and equipment at all stages of the chain. The short thing is that with capacity building and the invitation of more and more people to test, we are following up our offensive test strategy with, and I quote: a significantly increased testing across the population, which can support a controlled and gradual resumption of activities in society. I can add that last day in Denmark a total of 15,686 people were tested, which brings us to a level that is at the top of the world when you look at comparable countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163732	Thank you for your answer, Minister. But we're not up to the 20,000 yet. Well, let me start by saying that I don't think there's any reason to hide from you, and I hope the minister doesn't do that... that this whole universe of tests has sailed around, right? After all, there has been one message after another; one moment the strategy has not matched capacity, and the other moment capacity has not matched the strategy. When I've been asked about this, I've said that I don't think I've experienced 5 minutes in this whole process, where the strategy has been just about suited to the capacity that has been there. And when I talk about capacity, it's either in relation to the test kit capacity or in relation to the number of employees who have to handle these tests. I admit that since this question has been asked, the Minister has made another statement in relation to how to do what the Minister himself calls an offensive test strategy. And now the minister has invited all Danes to be tested. Could the Minister please elaborate on what is actually the strategic purpose of this? And the reason why I am asking is that the experts that the Minister has to advise on these issues do not really think that there is any strategic aim, as I understand them. That is really my one question. My second question is: now that all Danes, what I assume is the Minister's intention, are crashing and trying to get a test, how will the Minister ensure that the necessary capacity is there? Because one might think that one morning the Minister wakes up and says: 'This is because no one is going to be tested.' And then the minister busts out and says that now all Danes have to be tested, without having such a real strategic aim at what we really want with this test strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520163934	The fact that Martin Geertsen is trying to put words in my mouth and quoting me for things that are simply not correct does not make it any better. So I am rather annoyed that this is the way the debate should be. Capacity is reserved for our special priority groups, i.e. the groups identified by the Danish Health Authority and that is to say both people with symptoms, also mild symptoms; people going to the hospital; tracing efforts, front staff, etc. So it's reserved for that. In addition, there is additional spare capacity. Every time we find an infected, it is a hidden pocket of infection where we can put an end to the infection chains, and that is the foundation for the reopening of society. And that's why it's a smart strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164020	Now the Minister was upset that I put words into the Minister's mouth, which I actually did not think I did. Now, allow me to arrest the Minister in the sense that he does not respond to what I am asking the Minister. What I am trying to get out of the Minister is: if all Danes now accept the generous offer the Minister has made to the Danish people to get down to be tested and the capacity is not there, what will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164044	It's still not gonna be any more correct for Mr. Knox. Martin Geertsen is again trying to put the government and myself in the mouth; it is still not becoming more correct. What we have chosen to do is a wise decision. We have chosen to tell the Danes quite openly that with the low pressure of infection we have and that we are now in a situation that we have fought for, and which many other countries dream of, namely having a high, high test capacity, we currently have at week level what is equivalent to about 50,000 in free capacity, and there we have told the Danes that we think that if you have a job or have another reason why you think you would like to accept this offer, you can do so. And that is what we have announced very, very clearly and precisely to the Danes, and it supports the reopening of our society, because in this way we can find some pockets of infection that could not otherwise be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164142	Then we have a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Sophie Løhde, also from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164151	Thank you. In other words, that the Minister thinks something wise is perhaps not so surprising when it comes to something that comes from the Minister himself; let it perhaps be the first truth with modifications that we can start by just getting rid of, insofar as the government tends to consistently refer to everything that comes from the government as wise, and it is probably also wise to do for the government. But I have a question for Mr. Martin Geertsen is absolutely right that this test strategy has been completely zigzaged. It may well be that the Minister will not admit it, but everyone else outside these thick walls is in agreement, that is to say it has been in the east and west of this area. And one of the things that may be puzzling is that at some point you are going out and promising that, compared to this social track, 20,000 people would have to be tested. That is what the press release of the wise minister for health and the elderly said on 21 April ■ but last Tuesday the government will come up with another test strategy, which is said to be more ambitious, and the ambition had suddenly been halved to 10,000. Why is it more ambitious to want to test 10,000 daily on the social track when the ambitious April month was to test 20,000 daily on the social track?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164309	After all, the new test strategy contains a number of other elements such as: detection, and there too there is a very, very offensive tracking strategy which is, of course, about us actively taking action on the part of society when tested positively and helping to find out, through a hotline, who you have been in close contact with so that you can track it down. And that is one of the offensive things that lies in the new testing strategy. Another is how we handle even isolation for people who find it difficult to self-insulate because of their housing conditions. After all, the Folketing will deal with a bill on that later. That is to say, it is a million inhabitants, and that must be included if you want to criticise the government for now delivering such a high level after having been in a situation where we did not have enough capacity at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164429	So I do not think it is offensive in record time to halve its own ambitions. So, I quote from the press release from the Ministry of Health and the Elders, where it was written on 21 April that 20 000 people should be tested daily on the social track. And then we rewind the time until last Tuesday, and then there was another new and ambitious and clever test strategy... all the words that the government used to put on and the ambition had suddenly been halved to 10,000 a day. I quote from the Minister's own press releases. Is it more ambitious to want half of what was planned in April, and does the Minister think that, in fact, there is perhaps a need for even more tests to be carried out than there will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164514-2	As I said in my reply to Mr. Martin Geertsen, will be able to expand the test capacity in the social track if necessary in our society if necessary. Fortunately, we have reduced the pressure of infection to a level which means that we now have available capacity, and the available capacity is the one we have said to the Danes that we think we should make use of if you need it. And so, and it may be, the Left does not think so, I can see that it is the very, very broad, general view that Denmark has an offensive test strategy which, of course, places us entirely in the world stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164607	Then we go back to the main questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164611	Now I really, really must try not to put words in the Minister's mouth. So now I simply want to put questions from here. Question 1: Is it correct, Minister, that the Minister is now saying that all Danes can be tested? Question 2: Is there capacity now or later for all Danes to be tested?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164641	There are 50,000 people today who are infected. We can't know how the pressure of infection is in 14 days, in 1 month or in 2 months. As it is today, there are 50,000 available tests on a weekly basis. That is what we have written in our press release, and there you can figure out how many you can then test. It does not say in the test strategy that we have a strategy for all Danes to pass through a test, but the test strategy is that we need to have a significantly increased testing across the population, which supports a controlled and gradual resumption of the activities. That is exactly what the strategy says and what we are implementing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164722	Thank you for that, both to the Minister for Health, to Mr. Martin Geertsen and Mrs Sophie Løhde. It's the same team that's asking for question No. 15, so I'd like to ask Mr. Martin Geertsen to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164738	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why, despite the Prime Minister's promise to the contrary, the Minister has still not ensured, as several top researchers have pointed out, that there is full transparency about the central data of the Statens Serum Institute, which has formed the basis for political agreements on the reopening of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164752-2	I would very much like to answer the question. The expert group led by the Statens Serum Institut has already published the source code, which was the basis for the calculations presented in the first and second stages of the reopening of Denmark. And to ensure transparency about which data are processed by the expert group, the Statens Serum Institute has published on its website a list of the data currently being processed in the project. The group of experts shall apply, inter alia: data sources for the calculations containing sensitive personal data. This means that data cannot be published at individual level. Therefore, the State Serum Institute is currently examining whether some of the data sets containing personal data are aggregated to a sufficient extent to allow them to be lawfully published. In this context, the State Serum Institute is considering whether there is a need to include the Data Protection Agency in the assessment. And the Institute considers that they will have clarification within a week. In addition, the Serum Institute uses different data sets that do not contain personal data. This may reflect the activity in different parts of society: traffic and travel data, mobility data, consumption data. These data have been provided to the CDC provided that the CDC does not transmit the data directly to others. In the light of the political desire for transparency about data from the work of the expert group, the Statens Serum Institute is in dialogue with the institutions from which the data originates, about the possibility of still publishing data. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Serum Institute and the Danish Health Data Protection Agency have established a common solution from 5 May to service researchers who need covid-19 data for their research.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520164944	I do not think the Minister quite answers to what is actually, what should be said, the main question here and the Minister has, as it were, been aware of this at least for a few days, which is that the Prime Minister, during the party leader's debate here on Thursday, said that everything that underlies the reopening has been put forward. May I just quote Professor and Chief Medical Officer at Rigshospitalet Jens Lundgren he is one of the researchers who has wondered about the lack of transparency in the Statens Serum Institut's calculations and who, although SSI Wednesday published the requested data, did not feel more enlightened after he and a number of students at Rigshospitalet have examined them as a few days after the Prime Minister had said it, said: "I still need answers on how to come up with the assumptions... building on data, and what is that data? This is the kind of openness that needs to be used in order to have a proper professional discussion, and so that both researchers like me, but also the public as such, should be able to go after the authorities. That's what Jens Lundgren says, and I just want to hear: Why is it that both scientists and politicians and others have had to pull this information out of the government and out of government governments? And could the Minister not take the trouble to answer why, after there has been a party leader debate, and despite the fact that the Prime Minister has so far been in the party leader debate and said otherwise, researchers and others are still out to say: we simply do not have the necessary data to be able to make a proper professional discussion of the things and results coming out of the State's Serum Institute?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165127	But that is exactly what was in my answer. Well, we on the government side have a desire for complete transparency, which I can understand that the entire Danish Parliament has been pleased to see, but we have to operate on the ground of the law here. And when a part of what is the basis for the calculations is person-sensitive information, then we have to make sure that it cannot be identified at individual level. It goes without saying that when we state whether it is in a party leader's debate, or it is here in the Assembly Hall or elsewhere, it is a completely fundamental condition that, of course, we abide by the laws of the kingdom. Of course, we expect the Statens Serum Institut to do so, and that is what they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165212	Now I am quoting another article here from TV 2's website on 15 May: For several months, Danish researchers have been asking for important data on covid-19 from the Statens Serum Institut without getting a clear answer on whether and when they can get it. I would just like to repeat my question: how can it be that it has taken so long for the Minister and for the government to realise that there are actually people out there in society, including top researchers, who need the data contained in the Statens Serum Institute?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165255	I cannot, of course, comment on the specific quote, but I can see that it is at least a misconception if you think that there are data only at the Statens Serum Institute. There are 19 top researchers in the group of experts, among others. Today has advised all party leaders, not just the government, and has provided data to the leaders of all parties. These are 19 researchers, some of whom are from the Serum Institute, part from the University of Copenhagen, and there are researchers from the RUC, DTU, the Niels Bohr Institute, etc., who are thus developing new data models with respect for the professionalism and the need to protect privacy. However, researchers have the opportunity to apply for access to data from the national health registers necessary for this scientific work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165348	Then I would like to introduce Mrs Sophie Løhde, who is a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165353	Thank you. In fact, it may be argued that when we find ourselves in a situation where the Prime Minister on national television tells all Danes that everything has been put out openly and that it simply cannot become more open, the next few days with various top researchers who say: we cannot have access to central data, central corona calculations that we are asking for. Both cannot be true at the same time: what the Prime Minister says on national television, and what the researchers then go out into public and say to the press. Then you have to decide for yourself whether you think the Prime Minister has said things as they were, in the party leader debate, or whether it is perhaps the researchers who have a point when they say that they cannot access that data, despite the government saying the opposite. But I would really like to hear the Minister for Health when he says that he is in favour of full transparency: will the Minister for Health, together with the other government, agree with the manifesto of openness which seven parties in this Parliament have joined?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165501	I can't actually remember exactly all of them, I think it was nine or ten commandments that were in the manifesto. When one speaks and one gets such a specific question during Question Time which is not included in the question submitted, then the answer must be with one reservation. I believe that at least the spirit of the letter has been respected, and it is also close to being the letter, in relation to the so-called manifesto of openness. But I say it with one reservation, because I must have it in front of me, and then I would very, very much like to cross off on a list. It may be that we can meet again and have a review of this. I'd love to do that. Researchers can apply for data from the Serum Institute, including MiBa, via Researcher Service, where there is also the possibility to connect covid-19 data to other registries and possibly own data records. These applications are urgently processed, and this applies to all data relating to covid-19 research, which means that everything is presented openly as the researchers are ready to put it forward. And just a few days after they have the report, they can put out the source codes themselves, which is happening at a speed that we've never seen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165627	But both still can't be true at the same time. The Prime Minister says that everything is laid out openly, and a number of the country's leading researchers say that they cannot access a number of the data and key corona calculations that they are asking for. I find that regrettable. It is no secret that we on the Left would have liked to have seen a much more open approach from the government in this historic crisis that Denmark and the rest of the world are facing. In relation to the manifesto of openness, I did not ask for the Minister's checklist. I would just like to ask: will the Minister sign this manifesto of openness and endorse it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165701-2	Thank you for the question. That depends entirely on the content. I am not putting my signature on anything where I am not fully aware of the content. That is why I have to have a checklist before I can answer that question. I am not going to put my signature on anything that is contrary to the law, and what I have answered Mr. Martin Geertsen, is of course that part of the data sources underlying the calculations, which are requested by some researchers, contain sensitive information, as I understand it. That is where we have to go, and hopefully we also believe that, across the parties, we must stand firm that we cannot demand from our authorities that our researchers put it before the public. For that would, of course, be a breach of all our trust in the system and, incidentally, also a breach of the law. Therefore, it should not be possible to publish at individual level, despite the fact that there might be a researcher or two who thought it was interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165754	The main questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165757	I think the government could have done itself a very, very great service by saying: everything is open unless there are very good reasons why it should not be. Instead, scientists and all sorts of others have had to pull and tear in the government and most often, without there having been any comment from the government on these issues of openness. Well, on the basis of what Sophie Løhde says, let me just ask a question that can be answered yes or no or how close the minister can get to it: is it the researchers who are right that everything has not been put out openly, or is it the Prime Minister who is right in the party leader's debate when she says that everything has been set out openly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165837	The Prime Minister is right. But you have to bear in mind that when a government makes its decision, wherever it is, it does happen within the framework of the law. That means that everything has not been put out openly because there is sensitive information, and when you say as Prime Minister that everything has been put out openly, in a television discussion, it is perfectly correct, but it is of course understood that it is within the framework of the law. Well, that's self-evident. After all, we would have a situation that none of us would want if it were the case that, without regard to the law, information in television debates had to be shrouded in. So it has to be done within the law, within the framework, such as. It's about not passing on sensitive personal information. It is absolutely crucial that you have to work through those things before you can lay them out. It is completely understood that this should have been done. And as I said, we hope that they can do it in an aggregated form, hopefully this week and then put it forward. That could be good. We only want as much openness as possible and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165933	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen, thank you to Mrs Sophie Løhde and thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly for today's questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the This is for the Minister of Transport, and the questioner is Mr. Ruben Kidde from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520165950	Thank you. My question is this: is the Minister prepared that the demolition and tunnelling of the state road bridge Bispeengbuen is one of the projects that can go under a model of how to implement projects [...] that are not covered by the suspension of the construction ceiling in 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170012	Thank you for the question. The Bispeeng arch meets its true transport purpose today, but as the questioner is of course aware, the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg have expressed their wish that the area be designed in a different way. With the agreement of 14 November 2018, the parties behind the agreement on a green transport policy, in which the author's party is involved, have taken note of the wishes of the municipalities to transform the area and indicated that the state would be in favour of a transfer of the state road. The transfer of the Bispeeng arch and road construction will be carried out in accordance with the usual principles, where the municipalities make a financial contribution corresponding to the State's spare maintenance costs. I would like to emphasise that this commitment remains valid, and it is therefore also up to the municipalities to decide whether or not they want the road to be transferred. In the Marselis tunnel case, Aarhus Municipality has presented to the Ministry of Transport various proposals for models on how to structure a collaboration between public and private parties with the aim that the establishment of the project will not affect the construction ceiling in the municipality. As far as I am aware, Aarhus Municipality has not taken a final decision on how to proceed with the project. If the construction ceiling is a challenge for the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg in the Bispeeng Arc case, suspension of the municipal construction ceiling this year is unlikely to solve the challenge, as a demolition and a tunnel project will have cost effects long after the year 2020. Whether a model can be found, for example. a PPP model in which the project of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg municipalities on the Bispeeng arch can be implemented without affecting the municipal construction ceiling must be based on a concrete assessment. And this concrete assessment can only be made once the municipalities have decided whether they want the road section to be transferred and present a bid for a possible organisational setup that the municipalities consider realistic. In the end, this issue will have to be discussed, not with my ministry, but with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170222	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is aware that the State also has a responsibility for this rather peculiar road section, where we have a motorway which goes into our town and is simply in the heart of the city, at the corner of Nørrebro and Frederiksberg. Is it not also part of the government's approach to modern cities that there should not be motorways at the height of the third floor, and does not the Minister accept responsibility as Transport Minister for ensuring that it is removed so that the motorway is not located in the middle of the city?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170310	It is an old planning that lies behind the Bispeeng arch and various other plants. This is from a time when urban planning was thought of in quite a different way, and back from a time when perhaps there was also a different approach to public transport in Copenhagen. I myself was born for a year when trams were still driving in Copenhagen, and as you know, that is no longer the case. There's a lot of things you can cry like that. But it is certainly clear that if you wish to have the road piece transferred to the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg, money will follow, as also indicated. As I said, this is a promise I would like to stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170356	Thank you. Of course, it is really, really fine with the state guarantee that the money that would still be used for the demolition of the Bispeeng Arc, which is the property of the state, can of course be put into a project. And this is really good for the capital and the project, but at the same time, a former acting Social Democrat rapporteur during the election campaign last year has expressed the wish to be involved in further cofinancing. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170436	Well, first of all, I can relate to what our common parties agree on in an agreement that was concluded back in 2018. That is, of course, the basis on which the government stands. Having said that, I think it would be interesting, as I indicated in my first answer, to take a closer look at the models that have been made in Aarhus, because I assume that a project about the Bispeeng Arc will include more than just a new route. Well, there will probably also be some urban development in it, so it could give, I think, very good sense to make a bilateral exchange of experience between Aarhus, Copenhagen and Frederiksberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170528	This sounds positive, and at least it is a dialogue that I imagine the municipalities would very much like to join together with the state. I asked the question because with projects like Marselis Boulevard in Aarhus and the Bispeeng arch in Copenhagen, which has lived for decades, we are now confident that we can finally get started, now that we need a green reboot of Denmark. So I would like to sign for the extended hand of the Minister, and I hope that the municipalities and the state can come together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170611	As I said, we will of course assist where we can, and it is also my impression that representatives of the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg initially, when, under my predecessor, they were presented with the possibility of handing over the road, actually expressed their enthusiasm. But it is also clear that there can be different economic considerations which need to be analysed in greater detail. But my door is always open to exchange of experience, and it is also clear that some of what might look interesting in Aarhus, as I mentioned in my first answer, are just some of these alternative forms of organisation, among others. The PPP, which I cannot say on a stand-by basis is relevant to the Bispeeng Arc, but it is worth analysing more closely for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170701	Thank you, sir. Ruben Kidde and thank the Minister of Transport for today's questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17 to the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mr. Sten Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170718	Thank you for that, President. And the question is this: Will the Minister help to create a long-term economic model that ensures that Danish School Sport can help schools, managers, teachers and educators with teaching and tools that can increase the implementation of 45 minutes of movement in the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170741	I would like to discuss, in the context of the forthcoming financial law negotiations, how we can allocate additional funds to Danish School Sport, and also explore the possibilities for grants by 2020. That is actually the short version of the answer, that is that it is the government prepared to look at. As the various consultations and consultations in the Folketing have also made clear, there are many different reasons why schools have not implemented the demand for 45 minutes of movement, and I really believe that we two have a very common agenda, in that this is therefore one of the important points, because we know that it means a great deal to children and young people and, in fact, especially those who have challenges with the school, that there is movement in connection with school day. There is not a snapshot solution to the problem, but I actually share that Danish School Sport plays a very important role here, in other words in sparring and inspiring how to implement it. Because we saw that there was a very positive increase in movement in school day to start with after school reform, and then it is flattened. And there I am convinced that this is one of the tools. Therefore, I would just like to announce today that it is the government's intention to discuss in the context of the financial law negotiations with respect to 2021 and ahead, but we are also willing to try to see if we can find a solution for 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520170903	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that, because the Minister knows about what we have both been in consultation and asked questions about this important agenda. And I also think that there are a lot of teachers and educators and managers out there who will be happy with the announcement that they also have a tool to handle what comes after this. Yesterday and today we negotiated a package of 80 million. kr. to those who are particularly vulnerable, and thank you very much for the debate on it. It is really, really important that they are promised professionally. And exactly the same group has a huge need to get that movement too. And with everything that we've been pushing for months, where they haven't moved, there's when they come back after the vacation... they're going on vacation in a few moments... at least something we need to restart when they get back in August. So I am super happy to hear the announcement the Minister makes, both in relation to looking at 2020, but also to look at the long term. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171009-2	Well there's no doubt that there have been uncertainties and that there have been all sorts of different models in games... what could be done, and how could we do this? That is why I think it was necessary, as we said, that we now have to go in and look at something quite specific, and we believe that we must find a solution to that. So that is also the commitment I make here. And we could have announced that in all sorts of other contexts, but the Left has put a lot of pressure on this, which is why I thought it was most appropriate to give it to the Left here as well. I think we have had a very good cooperation on this, and I think that is what it takes if we are to lift movement in primary school. Now I think it gets a real backlash because a lot of people have tried to teach outdoors and in all sorts of other contexts than usual, and I hope that makes a boost, but of course it also requires us to be able to pick it up and put it in a system and get something done about it. I think that requires some effort, and I am convinced that Danish School Sport can contribute to that, just as anyone else can. That is why I very much hope that this summer, but also in the post-summer period, we will use the good experiences that have been to raise this agenda. I know that hope is bright green, but there's something that suggests that we can actually get a move on this if we forge while the iron is hot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171118	Thank you so much. And it's not that I have to push too hard, but the summer holiday is just around the corner, so I hope, of course, that we can sit together before we reach the summer break, also so that we can get some comfort, among other things. Danish School Sport, which the Minister is also aware of has no more funds this year to run with, and where you have actually started to look at who we should have after the summer break to carry out this task. So the sooner we can get started on that talk, the better. And I'm not doing anything tomorrow, for example. So it's just, what to say, a call to call us as soon as possible and we'll be there right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171157	I can tell you that here in the coronate I don't have the luxury that I'm not doing anything tomorrow I wish it were so well. But of course I will try to make things happen as fast as I can at all, but also hope for an understanding that things are sluggish because it rushes off there with corona. And that is why there are so many decisions that need to be taken quickly after each other. So I am pushing for the best I can for a solution to be found, but on top of many other agendas. Then I would say that I also think it is urgent for the summer holidays, both because of the specific situation, but simply because we need to get some direction on what is going to happen, because we are about to get on the other side of the big first move around getting reopened, first in phase one and then in phase two. And it takes some pickup, so I think the time is about to be right now to draw those lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171246	Thank you for that ▪ if there are no more questions (Sten Knuth It is not there). Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth, and thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. The next question, No. 18 is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171304	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171306	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that clear guidelines should be drawn up for this summer's student drives and other celebrations of the completion of various youth education programmes by Danish young people so that celebrations can be carried out properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171321	Yeah. But it is too early yet to say what the guidelines will be and what some things can actually be done, because a great deal of it is about how the total pressure of infection moves and what is going on at a table, which none of us is at the moment negotiating further reopening of Denmark. I think we all have an awareness that the day you get your letter of service, or the day you become a student, or the day you finish your 9th grade, is a very big event in a young person's life. I'd actually think that most of us can remember it, even if we're gradually getting a little gray at the top and all that. At least I remember it myself. That is why I think we all know very well that, especially on top of a rather boomed spring for young people, it is more important this year than it has ever been before that we have made the rituals that actually make life slip on when we are faced with relatively serious times. This is one of the times when, in my opinion, such things as rituals are most important. So I fully agree with the starting point, but we must take into account how the infection spreads in society. That is why, as a government, we have taken the initiative to put in place a small package, a medium-sized package and a large package to the health authorities in order to have an assessment of what can be done within the framework of the current pressure of infection. And that's where I'm waiting to get reports back in a way so I can report it to the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171448-2	Well, that sounds great. The Minister agrees with the intention. I also hear it as if the Minister is in the process of drawing up guidelines at several levels. So, we are all looking into this situation right now, where all the young people are going to be both students, these are the ninth classes, as the Minister said, they are young people from vocational training, it is in all areas that we must celebrate their completion, and if we do not ensure that there is a framework, that there are some rules they can try to comply with, then we have a situation where everything can happen and where they will do everything possible. Well, I was asked on the radio the other day what my attitude was about this. It was as if I had to say that either they should drink themselves in the fence, or we should ban all drinking. And I think: no, what we need to do is to ensure that there are some guidelines so that the young people, together with their parents, can have the opportunity to do this in a proper way, so that we can actually try to control it when we can know that it is going to happen anyway. I am, of course, pleased if the Minister says that it is in progress; and then I just get curious when it is then that we can get those guidelines. Because it might also be said that there are three possibilities for levels and that they will be tightened up later on. But the minimum level ought to be able to report out quite quickly and say that this can at least be done, regardless of how things are going. Because, of course, it's also about us not quitting the day before they finish. So it is no use coming to the end of June, and then there is a guideline for all those who are then finished at that time and have been out in it. So we're gonna have to have it very soon. Then I know that there are negotiations going on right now, and we can hope that later today something will be reported out that will make this easier. But I would hope that the Minister could say how close we are to the guidelines that are then being drawn up. And then I understand that it may well be that they can be a little more relaxed. However, we should be able to draw up guidelines on the framework that exists and what we know today, which says what we will certainly be able to allow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171646	But it is quite right that negotiations are taking place right now, and I have heard up to a number of parties announce that this was one of the things they wanted to discuss. That is why we must be careful to pre-discount all sorts of things. But I would like to put it this way that there is a dilemma in reporting out early so that people know what they have to deal with. What is the problem in doing so is that we risk that it will change because the pressure of infection is changing. So it's like the one scenario I think there could be. The second is, of course, that you report out so late that you cannot actually organise the things that need to be done, and by the way, you go and worry about whether you are actually allowed to finish. Therefore, if you report out very early, it may be in such a tight model that young people become incredibly upset by the situation. That is why I have asked the health authorities to go in to assess where we are at all so that we can get some picture of what these things look like. So I do not want to anticipate any negotiations that are taking place while we are standing in the Chamber, but just say that I fully share the view, in terms of how important this is for young people. And you can say that even if it really gets strict, there is some kind of opening that you can get some kind of ritual and a celebration of it, that you finish your education. Then I think we should allow ourselves to enjoy that we have some young people where one of the things they are really pushing for is to be allowed to celebrate the community and be allowed to celebrate that they have taken on an education. Someone called it spoiled. I can't believe I just disagree. Well, we've had generations of young people for many years, where we've most of all blamed them for something like that: me, me, me. The youth generation we now have is asking for permission to be with their comrades, and they are asking for permission to celebrate their education. I can't believe I think that's simply an honorable purpose. So for that reason too, I would like to have the opportunity. But this requires that the state of health is also there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171837-2	We share the hope that this can be done and this is going to happen. I am glad to hear that the Minister's basic position is that we should give them that framework as soon as possible. Then I also think that if we can give them transparently say that now we are looking at something else, then everything else is just better relatively quickly to come up with the tight guidelines and then could loosen them. I think you can handle that. It would be worse not to have anything to point for, because what is it at all that you have to bet on can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171908-2	The government has announced that we want to go in and look at it, because I think it's good to have the hope that we get there and that you can see for yourself that you have something to look forward to just some sort of celebration. But, on the other hand, we must also be careful not to change guidelines all the time, because it is also a question of people being able to understand what is going to happen, and then there should be no new announcement and then a new announcement, and then you cannot remember what the guidelines really were. So there's some balance in that. But I hope that within a relatively short period of time we will have a clarification of the situation so that we can see that we can at least give young people an indication of what seems to be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520171949	What I really want to welcome right now is the consensus that exists, namely that, as I hear it, we can promise young people that there will be a framework and guidelines. What they become, we cannot say today, but we can say that someone will say what it is that can be done for them so that they do not stand on the day they are finished and have nothing to point for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172010	There will certainly be some guidelines. We have also announced this as a government, that is to say that we are now going in and looking at different models of how this can be done. But we just don't know how yet. And I look forward very much to being able to tell the young people, because I know they are waiting for it, and there are a lot of people who will be upset about it if it is the case that one could not be allowed to put an end to one's education at all. So I hope that we can move quickly on it, but times are also as times are, and it is the health concern that counts, but of course we must naturally give the young people the hope of a celebration that can be done within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172043	Thank you for that, both to the Minister and to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. However, the Minister must remain in his place because Question 20 (pm. No. S 1184) is also about her area, and the questioner is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172102	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the Corona crisis, according to an analysis from Danish Construction, will cost 7,700 internships, and what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure internships?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172123	Thank you very much for the question. In my opinion, this is perhaps one of the most crucial issues for a youth generation that has been discussed in the Danish Parliament today. Thank you. Even before the corona crisis, it seemed to me as one of the great blinking agendas that during this period of government we must really move on to the challenge that too many young people are not experiencing the apprenticeship that will enable them to complete their education. Half of the young people who finish a basic course do not know where to learn. I simply do not think that can be right. In other words, even before the corona crisis, we faced some massive challenges, which I have talked to both the employer and the employee side about taking care of on the other side of the private collective bargaining. Then there was a corona crisis. What we have then done is that this week we have started negotiations under the Eud programme, in that we also have to talk about how to move forward in the area of apprenticeships. It is absolutely essential for the government to have a look at the short term so that you look into what we are doing now and here, where the bottom has been knocked out of the apprenticeship area in the context of the Corona crisis, because that shows the figures we have received as a government, too. The first figures we received said that half as many internships had been created in March of this year as in March of last year. And I think that actually highlights the seriousness, and that is also why we have called for tripartite negotiations which we are currently in, and which I have been working on, between the time I was in the Parliamentary Chamber this morning and we are here now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172258	Thank you for that to the Minister, and I would like to sign for it. In fact, I would like to acknowledge many of the initiatives that have been launched and say that there is a lot on the same line in the Left. What I am trying to do here is look a little forward because we have the corona crisis and I hear a recognition that something has to happen. Let me just get some figures on the track: from 2007-2008, during the financial crisis, which was also a major crisis, but hardly as violent as this one, the number of agreements on education fell by 3,300, and Dansk Byggeri says 7,700 now. It's just to put it in relief. I myself come from an area and I am chosen in an area, Ballerup-Glostrup, where it is super important to get the young people activated through these places. I have also been Mayor of Gribskov, where it is quite the same, by the way. So you can say that you can hardly focus enough on this in the time that is coming forward. I have a special focus on small businesses because it turns out that these places, internships, are particularly lost with small businesses. It is particularly there that there is a major problem, because they simply do not get any new ones in. Is it the case that the Minister could imagine making a special effort towards small businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172426	But what we have done in the first place is to provide for wage compensation in the area of apprenticeships. It now exists, and it applies all the way over, you might say. Yesterday we reached an agreement in connection with the Landsbygningsfonden, where demands have also been made in connection with the construction that is being set in motion there, and there will also be a considerable number of work placements in fact a few thousand internships. In other words, in our approach to crisis management, we are deeply aware of what a problem there is. This applies to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are usually the ones that are best placed to meet the target figures for taking in apprentices, but this also applies to large enterprises. We need to get every man of houses in relation to the provision of internships, and of course that requires that we, as a state, also get to the table and say that it is important to have a trialogue on this. And as I hear the social partners, everyone agrees on the seriousness of this: under no circumstances must we lose a generation of young people. It means something to the young people themselves, and it also means something to the business community that you get the skilled labour that you need.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172539	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172540	Thank you. If I may be a little harder in the felt, I would say that these are just words. Last week my colleagues Christoffer Aagaard Melson and Ellen Trane Nørby were here asking for a concrete action plan, and I think that is what is actually needed. Now the kids are just walking around out there, as we just heard from a previous asker, waiting. They cannot even finish, and they are not really finished in their course. How do we take care of them? How do we help them understand that we want to bet on them in the future? I think they simply need a concrete action plan there. Has the Minister thought about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172629-2	Yes, I have, and if it were the case that I came up with a concrete action plan, I would fail the negotiations we were engaged in. It would be against any proper negotiating ethics if I were to stand here and come up with an action plan in the middle of me negotiating exactly this. So what I can say is that we are in the middle of the negotiation process, and if I start to make action plans, one can be sure that there is no agreement, so I would think that was an extremely bad way to go about it, and I do not think that would be the case from the other side of the House if you were those who had the power of government. I know that young people need an answer, and I would say that as far as the young people are concerned, one of the very first things we did in the Corona crisis was to give the opportunity to complete our pilot test.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172709	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172710	But now I am here to influence the Minister a little bit, and I would like to say that I have actually managed to do so, because I am sure that it will be taken into consideration in the negotiations. Finally, may I ask: how does the Minister intend to deal with these prejudices, which are a little different, with the fact that it is best to have a academic education and not really want a vocational education? How does the Minister intend to tackle this, because that is also a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172741	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172741-2	I have always said as a minister, even before all this corona, that if there is one point that determines the question, namely how we get more people to take a vocational training course, it is whether it is possible to get a apprenticeship. Because if taking a basic course means a huge insecurity in terms of obtaining a apprenticeship, and it does, then it is clear that more people will be forced into some academic courses than would otherwise have been. That is why it is for me to see one of the most important issues to resolve, that is to ensure that there is security and security that, when you start your basic course, you can also get an apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172813	Thank you for that, and that concludes the question. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is from Mrs Gitte Willumsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172820	Thank you. Can the Minister reply to what further steps the Minister will take to counter the growing dissatisfaction of the returned high school students and hf students?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520172837	First of all, I would like to say that some of the things that have been very close to my heart are section 2. I do not know how many times I have said § 2 during this corona crisis, and for those who do not know what § 2 is, it is the exception that is from the decommissioning, for those children and young people who have particular difficulties and therefore have quite difficulty in being at home, and that group gets bigger, the longer time that is shut down, of course, because there may be problems, in the sense that the time itself makes the children miserable even more. There may be parents who start drinking more along the way, there may be parents who become more violent. We know that during the crisis, the number of people addressing shelters has doubled, which means that there are some children who have quite serious difficulties at home. It may also just be because Mom and Dad have divorced, because it doesn't even have to be so serious that it's abuse or drinking, it may also be that Mom and Dad have divorced, or that there is cancer in the family, and that for that reason you have a really hard time being at home. And here's section 2 in the picture. As recently as this week I have sent out a letter to youth education to draw attention to this, and I know from the meetings I hold with the sector that very many places have got a very good hold of spotting young people and getting them in, but in my book it is still too few. Because we know that there are a great many more young people who are having a really hard time and that there are more of them than there are in youth education, and that is why I have sent out that letter because I would like even more people who use that opportunity to know about it so that young people are taken care of. So it's like the group where there are some special things at home. Then, with regard to the other group, I would say that I have discussed this issue with the youth's own organisations to ask how we can somehow be helpful and some of what they have pointed out and which we have given them is the possibility of getting better guidance. Now one of my colleagues is sitting in the Chamber today, and I can say that the same has happened in higher education, and in both areas we have found solutions to this by ensuring that more guidance is available in both upper secondary and higher education, because there are so many doubts on the back of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173044	Thank you. Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173046	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is nothing new that many young people are miserable. In the last survey • How are you feeling?• which is made by the Central Denmark Region, they write that Danish studies indicate that within the last 20 years there has been an increase in the proportion of young people who are mentally ill with mental health problems. They also write that compared to other age groups there is a high incidence of stress, symptoms of anxiety, severe loneliness and depression among 16-24-year-olds. It is in Central Jutland Region, but we must assume that it is probably a nationwide trend and not just something you have in Central Jutland. At the same time, figures from the annual well-being survey on upper secondary education show that fewer high school students are happy with their schooling, that up to 30%. of the students have stated that they have seriously considered dropping out in the past year for one or more reasons. Therefore, the isolation of young people in this age group is deeply worrying. So does the Minister agree that the sum of the challenges before the covid-19 and the current situation is unsustainable for young people and that further action should therefore be taken to give young people a form of social contact and not just a guide so that they can have social contact with their age group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173217	That depends on what that means. Because to the question whether I think the situation is more serious now and that it is unsustainable, I will say: yes! In normal circumstances, then, as Minister of Education, I would never recommend that we close the educationdanmark, because why on earth should we have had education always if we thought it was a bad idea? I believe that this is both a good idea for the sake of the community, for being socialised and formed as a human being, and I mean it also, of course, because of the professional things you get with you when you take an education. So for all these reasons, it's a good idea to have the young people going. Young people, just like adults, benefit from having something to stand up to, so when we are in the situation we are in, it is because there is a global pandemic and it is not over yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173258	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173300	After all, the government has set aside 5 million. kr. to help young people maintain motivation until the summer break. This corresponds to approx. 50 kroner. per students. Would the Minister agree that it would be better if some sort of group meeting could be made for them here than making individual actions? And the money might also go a little further if you could get to meet in some groups for those who are particularly vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173329-2	They must be particularly vulnerable. That's what's in section 2. So the particularly vulnerable are allowed to have a daily life at school; they have actually had to do so ever since we closed down. They've always been exempt from decommissioning. This means that it was the same for the particularly vulnerable pupils, children and young people when the primary school was closed down. It is also the case for youth education that those who are at risk are not shut down. I would like to repeat this many times, and I wish the questioner would ask the same question on Wednesday next week again. Because then I can repeat it, so there are even more who hear it. It is so important to say that for those who feel bad at home, it is possible to get a daily life at school. For of course there will be some for whom it is more unsustainable than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173410	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173411	It may well happen that the Minister may be so lucky that I will be back next week. On TV MIDTVEST, psychologist Jørgen Rønsholdt on 11 May in connection with a broadcast on distrust among some students at a local high school said that he is concerned on their behalf. He is appealing to young people to return to some form of social contact. Does the Minister share the psychologist's concerns and does the Minister think that action should be taken on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173438	Yes, of course I do. Otherwise, I would not have contributed to the fact that we have a section 2, where the vulnerable young people are exempt from decommissioning. That's such an important point. I would say that we know that about one in ten young people goes home to a full parent on the home front. Then you can figure out for yourself about how many at least should be left at school before I think we have reached a minimum of what is an acceptable level. And there are far too many upper secondary educations where we are not near having caught a group of that magnitude and volume up. But that's actually what's meant by §2. It is precisely that young people who have a bumpy home relationship, it may also be divorce or cancer, as I have said, indeed have the opportunity to come back and be at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173521	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research by Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173532	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure a form of examination in the medium-term higher education which will be as fair as possible, so that the many professional bachelors, for example, will be able to do so? teachers, nurses and social workers are getting a satisfactory end to their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173549	Thank you for the question. There are quite understandably a lot of our students across the country who would have wanted a different end to this semester I understand. There are a great many of them who have shown a great deal of tolerance, understanding and commitment in recent weeks. I think we owe them a big thank you. Their exams, for many, will be different from what they had the prospect of. In many places, with very short offshoots, I would like to commend our educational institutions and our teachers for finding other ways to ensure that people can actually go to the exam. Because what was the alternative was to extend the course of these young people, and there are not many students who are interested in that either. With the new phase of reopening, we have opened the way for more students to come back, and it is also true that more of our exams can be held physically. For example, we have teacher students who have practical-music subjects or who are going to be science teachers, and it is clear that they need to have something between their hands to show their professional skills. And now they have the opportunity to come back. But there will still be a lot of people who cannot, and I understand that is frustrating, but I am currently in dialogue with both educational institutions and student representatives to find a way through it in the best possible way, so that we can complete the semester satisfactorily and without major delays, while at the same time obtaining a fair examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173722	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173723	Thank you. I am surprised that the medium-term higher education programmes are not allowed to reopen or hold ordinary exams for all students in the country's teacher, teacher, nurse and actually also social worker programmes at a time when the distance requirement of 1 m is otherwise what passes through and where a few thousand people can be gathered in the local mall. Why, then, is it that, as a society, we cannot allow something as important as a final exam on, for example. teacher training on a physical basis? Here, you are usually only three people... an examiner, a examiner and a student... and often in an auditorium or teaching room of approx. 60 m2. At the same time, I wonder, and I don't really understand, I feel a little confused and a little surprised by the fact that you give priority to which exams are oral and physical and which are digital. Can the Minister explain the rationale behind the choice to give priority to physical and non-physical exams in higher education and why, as a society, we cannot allow something as important as a final examination on e.g. In all cases, when it is possible to do so, and when it is often done in large rooms with a good chance of distance, does the training of teachers take place physically in all cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173843	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173844	These are two very important questions. One is, of course, politically determined: why open up something and not to anything else? And I understand, if you're based on your own everyday life and your own future exams, that you're thinking: Why not just like me? But there we also have a political responsibility to ensure that society as a whole gets through this whole thing and with a balance where we do not lose control of this disease again. And that is why the overall pressure of infection is important, the overall mobility of our society is really important, which is why it is now decided that all the exams dependent on physical presence can be physically present, and those who are not dependent on it will be held digitally or otherwise, and this is also in close dialogue with the educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173929	The asker again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520173930	Thank you. I have spoken to several teachers who find it difficult to explain often crying students that it is not possible to go to the exam in a 60 m2 large classroom where there should be only one student, a censor and an examiner and then once in a while an extra who is interested. I have also received personal stories from teacher students who are considering not submitting for exams in their major subjects; some have not received all their courses, others do not have access to the literature given for exams. My question is therefore: what would the Minister think the teachers should tell the students who find it difficult to understand that they cannot be examined in a 60 m2 room and who are asking for the courses they are missing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174013-2	It has been a powerful achievement of our teachers and our managements out there, which has as far as possible transformed as possible of the teaching. Would we have felt differently? Yes, of course, because otherwise it was this way that we had usually arranged it; it isn't. In fact, in this context, I would like to commend our educational institutions for the very close dialogue we have had. It is in fact those who have taken on the task of assessing what required physical attendance and what did not, and therefore it has been a local decision which examinations required physical attendance. I should like to pay tribute to this and to acknowledge that it is important for people with local knowledge who know the rooms, who know the students and who know the subjects, and not us who have had to assess each individual exam politically. Compared to the overall pressure of infection, it is also about how many people we can tolerate taking the bus, how many we can tolerate buying a cup of coffee on the road, and how much mobility we can afford in society as a whole. And we could choose to open up to all our higher education, but then there would have been something else that we could not open up, and in that way it is all a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174116	Thank you. And last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174117	Thank you. I am pleased that there is that understanding and that openness, but I will again insist that a 60 m2 room should be large enough for three people. I understand that we agree on • or at least I assume that we agree that society needs teachers, nurses, social workers, midwives, machine masters and many, many others who are holding their final exams now or are going to their final exams now. They've been home for two months, and they have to go out and use what they've learned internship. What will the government do to ensure that students in all the practically oriented subjects such as midwife or engineer master acquire the necessary skills before the final subjects?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174155	And the last answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174156	We have done a great deal along the way, for example. with a fast-working internship task force to hold hands under those who were going to internship and get such a very concrete reality under their fingernails. At the same time, we have also had a great deal of focus on exactly what the rapporteur says here, namely that about those very practical needs, and that is why it is also what has been decided as part of phase two, in other words that everything that requires something between hands, if you can say so, can actually come back now. The midwives who need to learn how to sew can come back; the nurses who need to get into simulation may come back; the machine masters who need to get into the workshop may come back. However, this means that some of the other students still have to stay at home, because we cannot do it all at once in this society, and that is why we are also debating these different phases together as Parliament. In this context, perhaps I would just like to conclude by commending and thanking the rapporteur's party for having taken responsibility all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174252	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next question has been put to the Minister for Industry by Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174304	What impression does it make on the Minister that on 13 May 2020 a number of retail chains have joined up with a common advertisement in several of the country's daily newspapers with a message that the government's aid packages do not provide full coverage to the stores that the government has kept forcibly closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174325	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. It is true that on Wednesday 13 May there were a number of retail chains which had an advertisement in several major newspapers. The advertisement showed that there are companies that are severely affected because all or parts of the company are or have been closed by ban. All parties in the Folketing are behind the agreement, which means that a company's fall in turnover is calculated for each cvr number. This applies regardless of whether the cvr number, i.e. the enterprise includes one or more stores. A company's CVR number also includes the company's web shop, if any. New figures show that one in three Danish webshops has prospered in sales of at least 50%. For the last 14 days. It is common practice to use the cvr number to demarcate companies as legal entities and to check that companies comply with rules on e.g. the reporting of annual accounts and VAT. The same rules do not apply to parking numbers that the chains of shops would like to use. Therefore, the Danish Business Authority cannot use the P-number to obtain the information the authorities need for the processing of applications or to prevent and avoid fraud. If companies were able to receive compensation on each p-number, this would mean that companies would be able to receive a high level of compensation even if the company as a whole was not particularly badly affected by the corona crisis. Too much compensation would be contrary to the rules on State aid, and companies could then risk having to repay the compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174502	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174504	First of all, I would like to say that the Minister was kind enough to congratulate me on my birthday down here in the Chamber 14 days ago, and I have the opportunity to respond to that: Happy birthday today! So back to the question. In fact, this is the third time that we have had this debate in the Parliamentary Chamber about the challenge of compensation being given to the entire company by CVR number instead of compensation being paid to the individual closed store. And it is not to embarrass the Minister that I am now standing here the third time with the same theme for the debate, because the challenge is great. It is so large that 20 Danish retail companies choose to join up in such an advertisement in all of the country's large daily newspapers. It certainly impresses me, but I am surprised that the Minister does not say that it also impresses the Minister that there is this problem. The Minister is well aware of the extent of the problem The government has closed down shops in the centres and said that the stores that are closed down can get 100 per cent. compensation, but in fact it is barely every third of the shops in the country's shopping centres that can expect this compensation. And it is the government that has forced the shops. I find it very difficult to see how that is fair. The shops are losing millions because the government has forced them to shut them down and does not allow them to recover the losses they have. I guess that's one of the closest things we get to expropriation. It has also emerged that a number of retail shops are now in difficulty. According to the Danish Trade Union Confederation, 49 per cent are expected. of the stores to have to cut down on the staff. They themselves point out that one of the challenges is precisely that you can only receive compensation according to the CVR number and not to the individual shops. That is why I want to hear how the Minister will help these shops and whether you will respond to the call from the ad to take back the aid packages and just look at whether there is nothing that can be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174706	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174707	Well, thank you very much, first of all, for your congratulations. After all, it is two May children who are here today once again talking about the issue of CVR and P numbers. And, of course, it makes an impression to see such an advert, and I really think we might understand the two sides of this matter. I understand that there is a desire to be able to obtain compensation at shop level, but I also think the questioner sees the challenge in that, if you compensate too much, because then you will be giving too much compensation to a company that is not sufficiently hit overall. I also think you can see the challenge of our case management in the Danish Business Administration, because you don't have as valid and solid data linked up to parking numbers as you have on CVR numbers. So, of course, impressions make it, but I think we can see it from both sides in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174802	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174803	I am glad that this makes an impression, but I do not actually see the challenge that companies are going to get too much in compensation. These are some shops in shopping centres which have been closed down, which for two months have had no income and which have some costs. And just the fact that there's a webshop or a store out in a pedestrian street somewhere, makes it impossible to cover the costs. I simply cannot understand why it should be reasonable and that it cannot be resolved. There are plenty of retail stores where there are completely waterproof shutters between the individual shops under the same CVR number, and I find it very difficult to see why you cannot find a solution. Aren't these rules a little too rigid? Can we not at least look at whether the shops can then just recover the cost of rent or pay from the individual shops?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174853	I believe that what I was trying to say about the risk of being able to get a high compensation is not necessarily about the individual store in the mall. It's about the total CVR number. If the whole business is not particularly hard hit, but one is particularly hard hit inside the shops, then for the economy of the whole business one could risk coming into a situation where one would actually have to pay back money because of the state aid rules. That's what I was worried about here. But I would also just like to say that it is a very common and common practice that we work with the CVR number, and it works so that a company can have several different stores inside a shopping centre, out in a pedestrian street and out in a city somewhere else, and then it is the total economy of the company that determines how it is running. This means that stores that are under the same CVR number are also part of a group that may have something to resist out in the pedestrian street and out in the other cities where you have a store, which can compensate for some of what you lose during that period inside the mall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174951	Thank you. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520174952	Now we are just in a situation where it is not the case that the entire retail shop is not very badly affected. It is actually 49 per cent that expect to have to cut down on the staff, and it is not the case that just because you still have one store open, it can cover the entire income into the shops that may be located in shopping centres. So there is a real concern. Can the government instead look at introducing some requirements for documentation or some audit requirements to meet the concerns of the Minister, given that there is a difference between CVR numbers and P numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175031	I don't know if I got it like that. In that case, it is not exactly enough of me to say that one store in a pedestrian street must be able to compensate for one store inside a mall. In other words, if you have two stores and the one inside the mall is closed, it is certainly the case that the total CVR number actually allows you to get into the compensation scheme because you have lost so much on the whole CVR number that you can get in. It is just to stress that the fact that you have a store, a parking number, in a mall does not exclude you from the aid. I am very careful to go much further, because it is important that we can check the case and have something solid to lean on. So there's the cvr number, the solid in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175117	Thank you. The question is closed. Then I'll tell you that by Stén Knuth, Left, under number no. 30 questions put to the Minister for Culture (pm. No. S 1161) at the request of the author is withdrawn. And that is the last question that has now been deleted. The next question is to the Minister for Business by Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175140	Thank you. Will the Minister answer why a company such as Ditlevsdal Bison Farm (Europe's largest bison farm) with more than 45,000 visitors during the summer season cannot be compensated for lost admission earnings simply because they cannot be described as a zoo when they are, in the same way as a zoo, subject to forced decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175201	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175203	Thank you for a very good question. I shall begin by informing you that I am not aware of the details of the situation in which Ditlevsdal Bison Farm finds itself. Having said that, however, there should of course be no doubt that there are companies that are having a really difficult time because of the corona crisis and the measures to mitigate the serious consequences of the precisely the corona crisis. This applies to many different types of companies, including: companies that run restaurants and holiday rentals, arrange companies and lectures, as far as I am at least provided with the information, are also the case with Ditlevsdal Bison Farm, which has a number of business activities linked to its farming of bison farms. A company such as this, which has been seriously affected overall in the current situation, will be able to seek compensation for wage costs and fixed costs to the extent that they meet the criteria set out in the schemes. If the company has no more than 25 full-time employees, it may also seek compensation under the self-employment scheme. Pay compensation may be claimed if the company sends at least 30%. or more than 50 employees home. And companies with a reduction in turnover of at least 35% can be compensated for a share of their fixed costs. The hardest hit can be compensated for 80%. of their fixed costs. It is true that special conditions apply to undertakings which have been subject to a ban, that is to say they are forced out of business and, as a result, have not had any earnings at all for a period of time. They can get 100 percent. compensation for fixed costs. Most recently, it has been necessary to impose a temporary ban on zoos and the like keeping their outdoor areas open to the public. However, this does not mean that zoological facilities can be compensated for lost entry income. On the other hand, compensation is granted for wages and fixed costs. According to the information provided, Ditlevsdal Bison Farm has a number of different revenue-generating activities, which means that it does not, like many other zoos, rely heavily on admission revenue alone. I know that this is a difficult time, and I am therefore pleased that the reopening of Denmark is already underway. The closure of Denmark and the behaviour of the Danes has given us control of the covid-19 infection. Now the objective is a gradual re-opening of Denmark without putting the capacity of health care under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175425	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175426	Thank you for that, Minister. Thank you for your answer. Can the Minister not agree that one might wonder why Ditlevsdal Bison Farm cannot then be compensated for the cost of feed? One thing is entrance, but in relation to feed there is obviously no possibility of being compensated either. And in the way the Minister puts it here, you'd think it's a fixed cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175452	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175453	After all, we have tried to define the aid packages, which makes the best sense. And I believe that one of the differences between a bison farm which it mentioned and a zoo is also about the fact that in a zoo you do not breed for slaughter and use the meat. As far as I am aware, this is done at the bison farm in question. That is why it is not a one-to-one relationship, and it is one of the reasons why there are different arrangements for zoological installations in the classical sense and this slightly wider complex activity that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175536	Thank you for that answer. But isn't it really the case that this shows that there are companies like Ditlevsdal, but also others that fall down between different chairs because their way of organizing themselves is so different from that of others or doesn't fall within the different frameworks that are and where perhaps one should consider being a little more flexible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175600-2	No, I do not think it is possible to say that they fall between different chairs, because the company we are talking about here has access to the aid packages that apply to all companies, by the way, pay compensation, compensation for fixed costs, and if you have been closed by ban, you even have access to the very highest flat rate for covering fixed costs. However, it is clear that in our aid packages there are different types of companies that are addressed differently. But it is not the same as falling down between the chairs and having no access to any help; it is also possible for the company in question to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175638	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175639	Thank you. One might wonder a little about the way some things are screwed up. I'm glad to see that, for example. fur farmers can be compensated in relation to feed, but what is the difference between being able to compensate a bison farm in relation to feed? Well, these are some things I wonder a little about where there are some rules that apply in one area and some other rules that apply in another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175701	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175703	It is true that there are different approaches to this. Now the question was why the bison farm in question was not to compare one to one with a zoo where there is a special set of rules. And I do not think I can answer it differently from just insuring both the questioner, but also the company in question and the companies in question that, of course, we want to help affected companies to get through this crisis. And that is why I am just happy to note that the general aid packages are also available to this company.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175743	It is just the immediate discrimination that can be taken into account here. I mean, it's not a zoo, because there are other rules, and it's not a fur farm, but it's something quite third or something quite fourth here. However, this does not mean that the company is less affected or is not in a serious crisis situation. Fortunately, it is the case that there has been a large collection which has enabled the feed needed to be financed, but there could of course be others in a similar situation. And that is why my call to the Minister is: try to be a little more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175816	However, I think it is very good that the questioner raises the issue here, and that does indeed mean that there are also reflections on: are the arrangements flexible enough, and do we adequately cover it? I just think that in the case we are discussing here, it is certainly not the case that one falls between the chairs and does not have the opportunity to access the aid packages. This is in relation to wage compensation and to cost recovery. There are the same criteria here as for the other companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175849	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Business by Mr. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175858	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the role of banks in the Corona crisis, and does the Minister believe that the FSA's guidelines can prevent banks from showing community responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520175918	Thank you for the question. It is a very big question to answer the two minutes available here, but I shall try. Banks have a very important role to play in our society and in our economy, and this is, of course, especially true in a crisis such as the present one, where we are affected by a virus that has made it necessary for a while to shut down large parts of the country. Many companies have experienced from one month to the next without warning that they have lacked the liquidity to pay their employees and to meet their fixed costs. The government, in cooperation with inter alia: The Danish Parliament and the social partners acted decisively and gave a helping hand to many of the companies concerned. Many citizens have also experienced that their income base has suddenly become uncertain and, unfortunately, some have lost their jobs. It is violent as a family to stand with, for example. a mortgage loan that may suddenly become a challenge to pay the monthly benefits on. In this situation, for example, there may be a situation in which: need mortgage credit institutions to offer mortgage repayment to a family that has temporarily lost part of their income base. On 23 March, I published a joint understanding with Finans Danmark, the banker's association, about exactly some of the things I have just mentioned, i.e. that the banks should contribute to ensuring that healthy customers are not left in the lurch in a difficult situation. I am very much concerned that the banks are showing a social spirit and helping customers, which is why I am also constantly aware of this issue. With regard to the guidelines of the FSA, I am not aware that they should prevent banks from having the opportunity to take social responsibility in the current situation. On the contrary, it is my impression that, within the guidelines of the FSA, there is an appropriate balance between ensuring that institutions have robust and sound loans, while allowing for the necessary flexibility for customers in the current situation. Of course, there will always be someone who cannot get the loans they want, and there have also been stories of immediately healthy customers who have not received the loans that one might rightly think they should have. I have also responded to those stories because, as I have just said, I believe that it is the role of the banks to keep their hands on loans to healthy companies and citizens at times like the ones we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180138	Thank you, and here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180139	Thank you. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister on his birthday today, 34 years old. I myself have spent the last 30 years being in the private sector, and one of the things that I have really spent a lot of time criticising is the way the banks have been doing business. But I am right now in a situation where I just have to say that I am not doing that at the moment. At the moment, it is my view that they are really showing social and social responsibility, which is why we can also see from the figures that 98 out of 100 actually get a yes to what they are asking for at the moment. We've seen that 80 billion. kr. has come out rolling until 7 May. So it is a great deal of money that has come out in consumption. It is also extremely important that it gets into consumption, because here, in the first part of the crisis, we are super dependent on consumption. So, consumption is what is carrying our society at the moment, and if it does not happen, and if it does not happen with the help of the banks, we have a huge problem. That is why I must ask the Minister straight out and I would like a brief answer if possible: does the Minister believe that the banks are showing social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180308	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180310	Yeah, I think the banks do. And I think that the common understanding we have made, the banks and the government between, has been very good at supporting that in this crisis we are lifting a joint responsibility. I do not subscribe to the view that a crisis such as the one we are facing is solved by politicians alone. We can do a great deal, and we do so with aid packages, but the banks also have a very, very big responsibility and an important role to play. There has been some influx where there were some stories with some immediate healthy companies that did not get a loan, but we have come across that, and today I am not at all concerned and can say that I am experiencing a financial sector that is lifting the social responsibility that I also expect to be lifted in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180357	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180358	Thank you. I also believe that the Minister must acknowledge that perhaps there has been a slight tendency here and there, which could get them out of the chair and say, ah, now the Minister must relax, because it is 98 out of 100 who get their loans and so on, as I said before. But help has come from the European Union, and in fact it is the case that they loosen a little on these credit terms that lie. So I would like to know whether the Minister also has a solution there... whether the Minister also wants to lighten a little in the framework of credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180440	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180441	May I not start by saying that, of course, I am acting as the banker's minister and as a politician when we see examples of the social mind being lost, as there were some stories about it, and I think that this triggered the fact that in some banks, where there were no problems in living up to the social mind, one felt that the criticism was widespread. But, of course, it has not been intended to do so, because it has, of course, been addressed to those parts which did not lift. We have come for that, and we do not see such stories today. In relation to guidelines, I would just like to say that I do not have the experience that the guidelines, even the guidelines of the FSA, would stand in the way of showing the necessary social responsibility in this situation, but we would be happy to listen to it if there were any other opinion out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180527	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180528	It is, of course, precisely the easing of capital requirements that is currently on the way through the European Union, which we have just been discussing in the Committee on European Affairs and which will be dealt with by the finance ministers this week. That is why I have to ask the Minister again: how will the Minister ensure that the banks can meet their social responsibility during the Corona crisis without sacrificing their resilience to the supervisory authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180559	Thank you. Here you go with the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180600	I like the way the questioner puts it, because that is also the way I think about it. I have a very high level of expectation of our financial sector in a crisis situation. I'm not hiding that from you. But I also want to go a long way to help them lift that social responsibility. We have released the countercyclical capital buffer that we have found in a good dialogue between the FSA and the sector ways to lean into what the market needs, without risking being hit unnecessarily hard, and we are also listening to the proposals made by the sector in relation to the European level, and this is also reflected in the mandate that has been taken home in the European Committee recently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180643	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next is for a minister who isn't here. Now comes the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The question has been asked by Andreas Steenberg, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180701	Why must a foreigner, who must be a parent with a Danish citizen, first visit 14 days before term, and when will the government define the visit of a person with whom one must be a parent, as a worthy purpose to cross borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180721	Thank you for the question. As I have already said, I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that it is intrusive not to be able to visit your close at this time. This is also the case when, as in the questioner's example, a child is expected together. In defining the objectives worthy of recognition, it has been important whether they were objectives which were urgent and necessary, or objectives which, in the light of the exceptional situation, could tolerate a postponement for a period of time without wasting their purpose. As part of the gradual reopening of Denmark, which is fortunately under way, we have, as you know, been able to facilitate entry restrictions, so visits by spouses, regular couples, children and parents should generally be regarded as a worthy purpose of recognition. One of the reasons behind this decision is that the restrictions on entry in relation to this group meant that there were situations where the very close family was divided, for example. that children could not see their parents, or that married or regular couples who normally lived together were suddenly separated for a longer period. That is why it was the first group to ease the restrictions on entry. As indicated in the agreement with the parties of the Folketing, the government will, in the light of developments, announce the restrictions on entry by 1 June 2020. That is still the plan we are working on, and that is within a few weeks. This is therefore something that we are looking at, and it is clear that the government is listening to the wishes of the parties when it comes to reopening the borders. I would also like to stress that we have no desire to maintain the restrictions longer than necessary. On the contrary. At the same time, however, it is important that we do not move forward too quickly, because then we risk compromising positive developments in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180906	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520180907	Thank you. I think it is fair to give the information that these questions should be asked on Fridays before 1 p.m. We are now in a situation where, at the same time as this debate, the Prime Minister and also Mr Delors are sitting. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left party leader, and probably have the same debate in a negotiating room. So it may be that the debate we are having here is too old, at the same time as we are standing here. We don't know. But I am grateful to the Minister for the fact that a few weeks ago, after I asked about it, we opened up the door for the visits of close family members and spouses, and I asked him: but what about when they are boyfriends? Because in Denmark by 2020 they can easily have a relationship as close as if you were married. One may have known one another for years, for decades, without getting married, and so it seems something old-fashioned that one should not visit one another, especially when we come to a case where people have to be parents together: if one is married then one must see one another, but if one is not married one must not see one another, even if one is in the happy situation that one obviously wants to share with one another, namely that one must be a parent before 14 days before, and I do not think that makes much sense. I think that if something was worthy of recognition, it was then that people who are going to have a child together are allowed to visit each other, and that is why I just have to urge the government very clearly to do so, at least for this very small group. It cannot be here that the infection is carried into Denmark, because it must be relatively few people who are pregnant with each other. Why don't you open the line for people who need to be parents in a minute? That's only meaningful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181055	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181056	I also believe that there were girlfriends who were expecting children together 10, 20, 30 and 40 years ago, and of course it is frustrating to be in the current situation. So none of us wants that limit to be closed in the way it is now, and it is true that if you open Denmark a little more up here, it does not have the big consequence. But there are also some who think that we should open up a little more here and there, elsewhere, and there it is just that we as a government are trying to keep our tongues straight and say: it must be a controlled reopening of Denmark, and it should not happen in a way where we are again getting infected chains started, so we are being turned back into ludo, because then we must also start all over again on the border. Thank you). So it is a precautionary principle (Thank you), but as the questioner also says, I also know that there are discussions elsewhere about the same thing. Thank you, President-in-Office.).
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181151	When I say thank you three times, the speaking time is well exceeded. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181156	But I have to go a little sharply to the Minister when the Minister says that no one wants to. But you have to do that in the government, because it's the government that decided this. It has not been recommended by the health authorities, and one could have chosen to see each other when they were expecting a child. It has been the case that a Swede is actually allowed to come and work in the care of the elderly or in hospitals, but then you must not come if you are expecting a child together. It doesn't make much sense, Minister, that the government wanted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181229	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181230	But it's not like we're going around wanting it. Nor have we wanted the schools to close down, the post-schools to close down, the confirmations to be cancelled. We don't want any of it. But we have done so because we think it is the right way to deal with the Corona situation. We are delighted every time there is an opportunity to open something up and the day when the border can be opened, for example. For boyfriends, a happy day will also be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181253	Thank you. Then there's an enquirer, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181306	I will continue where the other asks lax, namely that no one wants to impose restrictions on seeing one's future child born. It often happens that someone gives birth before 14 days are up, and if they do, you cannot be present at the birth of your child, and it is only 5-10 per cent who gives birth at the term. Does the Minister think that if you allow foreigners who are lovers of a Danish citizen who are expecting a child to come to Denmark 14 days before term, it will have consequences for health in Denmark that it will increase the pressure of infection and that it will jeopardise our preliminary efforts so much that it exceeds the right to family life in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181356	Someone said to me earlier today: What about the cinemas in the province? Does it matter that much? It hasn't. But it has combined, together with all the other wishes that are, and that is why we are trying to deal with these wishes for the reopening of Denmark in a whole, based on an overall assessment of what it has to do with consequences, both for the economy and for the pressure of infection. I also know that the debate on the border is a debate in the public eye, and our position has been, and continues to be, that by 1 June at the latest we will be reporting out. I really hope that Denmark can come back in a normal situation, including on the border, as soon as possible, but we just insist that this should be done fairly controlled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181444	Thank you, and here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181445	But if it is the case that no one wants it to be that way, then it is a matter of form to change it. Then we can sort of do it right away. There was something quite interesting. At 1:00 a.m. 15.10 the Minister for Justice said something quite interesting in this Chamber, namely that, in relation to tourists, when you look at the number, couples make a very limited mark on the pressure of infection, because there are no millions. There I just want to know whether the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs agrees with the Minister for Justice on this and what, with the low number of people involved, makes it necessary today, on 20 May, to ban a foreign girlfriend from coming to Denmark to see the birth of his child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181523	Thank you, and the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181524	I don't know exactly what the Minister of Justice is referring to, but I'm quite sure he'll have that figured out when he says it. So I can only agree with that. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181536	Thank you. Here we go again, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181546	The minister compares this several times with the fact that there are cinemas and afterschools and everything else, and there I can, as far as a citizen's family or relationships are concerned, that is to say seeing the person with whom one has chosen to have one's life, and in relation to this question the person with whom one has chosen to have a child, simply not understand that social democracy puts it as far down on the list as is the case. It should have been the first thing you had opened up to, and you should never have kept future parents out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181629	Thank you, and the Minister in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181630	That's honest talk from the Radical Left. But I am absolutely sure that if you talk to people who have invested their entire life income in a company that has been shut down, or a 15-year-old girl who has been looking forward to going to post-school for several years, that is what is at the top of the list. That's what politics is all about: trying to get these things balanced properly. And I am reasonably confident that in the current negotiations we will find a good solution, just as we did last time, with the support of the entire Folketing. It is quite clear that this is important for the Radicals, so I suppose that is also something you will mention in the negotiations. On the part of the government, we have said, and I would like to repeat this, that on 1 June 2020 we will report on what we are going to do on the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181716	Thank you. We move on to a new question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181726	Why will the government not allow Danes to be visited by their partners and families from abroad, and when will the government recognise it as a worthy purpose to cross the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181738	Again, thank you for the floor and, as I have also said, I fully understand that it is intrusive to be separated from people you would like to meet with, including from your close. And as has also emerged from the previous answers given by both the Minister for Justice and myself, this is one of the questions that we in the government are very concerned about in connection with the continued reopening of Denmark. Therefore, restrictions have already been relaxed for a number of close family members. With this relaxation, it has been desired to ensure that families who normally have their everyday lives together are not kept separate. Finally, I think we need to remind ourselves of the purpose of the restrictions, namely to ensure that the impact of the many and quite comprehensive safeguard measures we have taken in Denmark is not undermined by the fact that people from abroad can continue to enter freely. We have acted fairly quickly and reasonably decisively in a wide range of areas, and many have been and remain subject to restrictions, which are also seen by them as quite intrusive. Now we are in the good, but also difficult situation, that we need to reopen Denmark in the right order, so that we do not put positive developments at risk. However, I can assure the questioner that the question of family members is in focus, that a solution is being worked out and that we will report it by 1 June at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181858	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520181859	After all, we are not entirely satisfied with the announcement of 1 June at the latest, and we also hope that the negotiations currently under way will lead to citizens seeing their life partners and their families again. It has never been recommended by the health authorities to close the border in this way, and it is paradoxical that a foreigner, for example from Malmö or from Flensburg, should be allowed to drive in and work with older people in the care of the elderly, i.e. vulnerable people. A foreigner would be happy to do so. But you can't come visit your boyfriend. It made even less sense when a couple of weeks ago, when they opened up that spouses would like to come, but not boyfriends. It is a rather old-fashioned view that it is only if you have been down on your knees and got a ring on, you have to see each other, whereas if you may have known each other for decades but have not married, then you must not see each other. What is the point of doing the discrimination, that you must come and work, you must come, if you are married, but if you are dating, you must not even see each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182020	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182021	It is true that if you have been dating for several decades and live in different countries, you are affected by the entry restrictions that we have decided. That's absolutely right. And by doing so one suffers deprivation; one pays a price, as hundreds of thousands of other people do. We have then judged that people who have a daily life together should not be kept separate, and we also think it is reasonable that if you are in such a formalised relationship that you are married, then it is also quite obvious that you should have the opportunity to enter. It is true that you can strike a line in many different places, but the more relaxed a practice we have, the greater the risk we also face in dealing with the situation with corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182108-2	I think that answer is a little exposed to the fact that the Social Democratic Party is back in some old position that if you have not married, you are not a proper couple yet. That doesn't make any sense in the society we have now. We are also in the view that if you have chosen to have a relationship in which you, for example, have one. living in Sønderborg and Odense and doing jobs in the two places and then seeing each other when you have time, it's okay, but if it's Sønderborg and Flensburg, the one has chosen to live abroad, and then you have to put down a berlin wall in the relationship. It makes no sense to see a boyfriend simply because he comes from another country if that country, for example. has less infection pressure than in some places in Denmark. So why not just open it up right away, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182201	I'm not convinced that you're in a more decent relationship if you're married than if you're a boyfriend. People have to mess with whether they want to have one or the other arrangement going on. But I would like to point out that building walls inside Denmark is a greater restriction on people's freedom of movement than making it countries we border on. I think it would have been quite violent if we had said not to leave Funen. After all, I think that having restrictions on entry to another state is something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182234	Thank you. Then we have an enquirer, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182238	Well, as the questioner said just now, it is not because it is the health authorities who have been out saying that you should not see each other as a couple. We have not actually received any information about it or any assessment of it. That is why we must use the information we have received. And what we have been told is what was said by the Danish Health Service at a press conference on 20 April, and I quote: sex is good, sex is healthy, health authorities recommend sex, especially if it is with the same partner. The Danish Health Authority has said that, and that is the only information and the only basis on which we have to assess it. This suggests that it is certainly not the health authorities who advise against being together across borders. I would just like to ask whether the Minister can not confirm that it is certainly not the health authorities who have advised against the fact that couples must meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182339	I have heard that quote; I must admit that I did not see the press conference myself. It is true, as the questioner says, that it is a decision taken by the government based on an overall assessment of how to deal with the Corona situation. And as I also said to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, I am pleased that every time it is possible to relax these restrictions on entry, because I think it is a huge economic and cultural advance for cooperation between Denmark and Germany that we have an open border. So it's by no means something I'm happy about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182421	I appreciate the many sympathetic expressions. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they can't support sympathy alone. Actually, they can't use that much. On 14 March, the government closed the borders, and that was over two months ago. How long does the minister think the state can forbid partners from seeing each other? Does the Minister believe that banning anyone from seeing his girlfriend, banning love, can be compared to going to the movies? 'Cause that's one of them. About going to the movies, which seem to prevent a couple from meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182457	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182458	We don't forbid love. I myself have a pretty good acquaintance who hasn't come out of her apartment for over two months because she's chronically ill and she's overweight. This is among other things. For her sake, we're trying to keep this pressure down. I understand that you can always find the example of "there is always just one industry that would like to open up, there is always just one particular group that should be allowed to cross the border, there is always just one. It's just where we insist that this is where we have to discuss together in order to manage the infection and the Danish economy together. 'Cause if it turns into a looser debate, we risk this running away, and then we get knocked back in the ludo.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182539	Thank you. Then there is the final question to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182550	I have great sympathy with the Minister's acquaintances, who have been isolated for two months because they are at risk. It is just important to make it clear that the fact that a Dane sees his Swedish girlfriend, never by any health authority has been called dangerous. No health authority has said that this should endanger the Minister's acquaintances. There has never been any health recommendation. That's why it's amazing that the government has made the choice to separate couples, especially when you've given permission in relation to marriage. And I would just like to express once again the hope that tonight's debates will lead to seeing each other again across a border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182635	If you have a mate or if you are living together, you are not divorced. But if you are a boyfriend and reside in different countries, you will find yourself in the extraordinary situation not just in Denmark, not just in Europe, but in the whole world, that you will have to wait a little before you can see each other forever. In the next 14 days, we're going to report what we think should happen. And there are also political negotiations that relate to many different things at the moment. I fully understand that there are many industries and there are many people who have hopes for these political negotiations. We just want to insist that this should be done on the basis of an overall view and not on the basis that individual elements are discussed separately. Because then you can argue for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182718	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182727	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182730	Thank you, President. What can the Minister say about the Syrian man who has returned to Syria with repatriation support, where, according to the media, he killed his 27-year-old wife, Huda Ali Ahmad, and their joint 9-year-old son?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182745	Thank you for the question. Now I know that the questioner is an educated lawyer, and that is why it is not surprising to the questioner that I am not standing here and speaking on the specific issue, which I myself know only from the press. However, I have been able to read that this is supposedly a very sad case in which a man has been repatriated from Denmark, in other words returned home, and has tragically killed his wife and son in Syria. Of course, what I have read makes an impression both on me and, I am sure, on the questioner. It is terrible that by 2020 we still have to hear about cases in which women have to fight for their freedom and the life they want to live, in extreme cases even with their very life as an effort. As a society, we can help and support women in the freedom struggle that many are in the midst of. We must dare to reject negative social control. And with regard to the return money, i.e. what is called the repatriation aid, I would say that I think it is quite wrong and untenable if Danish tax dollars are to go to a man who allegedly stoned his wife. Basically, I think this return arrangement is a good one. It is an attractive opportunity for many foreigners who want to return home to their homeland. However, the coverage of the specific case from Syria shows, from a very sad background, that there is a need to adjust the legislation. Of course, it should not be possible to travel from Denmark with Danish tax dollars in the suitcase and then commit serious crime and then receive another rate Danish support. I will therefore amend the law. I have been in discussion with some officials in the Ministry about how we do it, both how the law can be amended in the future, so that there is a demand that no more serious crime be committed and that the second instalment be withheld in cases where those who have gone home commit more serious crimes within the period of withdrawal has expired. I really hope that we can find a good solution to this. My plan is that we can deal with a bill in the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520182936	Thank you. I think we share the same view of much of what the Minister is saying here. Firstly, with regard to the repatriation aid: there is something strange about the fact that you have to pay foreigners who would actually rather live in another country, and then go to that country, but on the other hand you have to say that if that is what it takes to get them to move, it is probably well spent. But in this completely insane and tragic situation, where, according to the media, we are at least faced with a woman who has been stoned by her husband and a child who has passed away, perhaps in the same way, it calls it political action. That is why I also hope that the bill which the Minister is announcing will have retroactive effect. There is nothing in the Constitution to prevent that. I would say that all humanity and reason say that the perpetrator here should of course not have sent the last portion of money, and we must do what we can to withdraw what has already been paid. Now I call him the perpetrator, but what is particularly interesting here is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not want to confirm to Kristeligt Dagblad, who has been doing this very much, that Huda Ali Ahmad is On the other hand, I can see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration also in Kristeligt Dagblad, among other things. on 9 May, confirms that the person concerned has died. This is the relationship that leads me to put this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who would then not reply and forwarded it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration: can the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration confirm what he says to Kristeligt Dagblad on 9 May, that is, that Huda Ali Ahmad has passed away?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183143	As I said, I very much do not want to comment specifically on this particular case. But I would like to say in more general terms that if you have stoned your wife and a child to death, a check from Danish society with money should not arrive. There can be no two views on this in this Parliament. That's why we need to change the law. I would like to say straight away that we do not usually make legislation with retroactive effect, but I have asked the lawyers in the Ministry to check whether the second instalment can be withheld in cases where an applicant commits more serious crimes abroad before the payment of the second instalment, i.e. within the existing legislation. I understand from them that it looks difficult, but the officials are with the Ministry of Justice by turning every stone in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183240	I understand, of course, that it is not possible to comment on personal matters in principle, but I hope the Minister can understand that it seems strange that the Minister can give an opinion on this matter on 9 May to Kristeligt Dagblad, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not confirm the relationship with the newspaper. So there's something weird about that. But having said that, I would like to stress the importance of this money, of course, not being sent away, especially if you can confirm that this man has stoned his wife; of course Danish treasure crowns should not be sent off, and there must simply be a bottom-up task for the Minister to ensure that this just does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183320	In fact, I have to repeat what I said before, namely that I have asked the wisest lawyers I have been able to come near to to talk to you in the Ministry of Justice to find out whether this can be done within the legislation in force. Because then I think you should do it. That is the current case. Then I hope that we can change the law forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183343	Here you go for the questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183344	Yeah, because you could say, what would this killer do? Should he come back and sue the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration because he wants his money? Let us hope that what Kristeligt Dagblad writes is true, namely that he will rot in a Syrian prison... that wish I think we all share. But I think the Minister understands that this is a matter of great concern to us, and I think it applies to everyone. I cannot imagine that, if the Minister makes a bill with retroactive effect, there would be a single member of the Folketing who would vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183414	I think that everyone who read the very good articles in Kristeligt Dagblad was left with a feeling of disgust that money that could have been spent on improving this society seems to have to be paid out to a man who allegedly stoned it is quite crazy • his ex-wife and a child. There can be no two views on that. Although he probably would not come to Denmark and sue the Danish state, it is after all the case that we have to manage according to the rules of the law, and if we are dissatisfied, we have to change the law. So that's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183458	Thank you. The last question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183505	Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183508	Thank you. It seems immediately that the municipalities can only call for constitutional ceremonies one month after the law on citizenship has been passed, will the Minister be open to premonitioning the municipalities about the treatment of the law so that they can convene their constitutional ceremonies before the summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183531	Thank you for the question. It is stated in the Order on the organisation of these ceremonies that the municipalities can hold a constitutional ceremony at least one month after the bill enters into force. In addition, it also appears from the notice that a municipality can make the public announcement of a ceremony at the latest following the entry into force of the law we adopt here in the Folketing and at least one month before the ceremony is held. So there is nothing wrong with a municipality announcing the holding of a ceremony before the bill comes into force. If a municipality announces a ceremony before the law enters into force, the municipality must, of course, be aware of making reservations about the law being passed at all, but my best guess is that it does. In order to better guide the municipalities in relation to the holding of these ceremonies, on 1 May this year the Ministry sent a list of the most frequently asked questions to all municipalities. The list is also on the Ministry's website. The first question on the list concerns when the six-monthly draft legislation on the communication of citizenship will be examined, and it is clear, among other things, that the draft law presented in April will be adopted as a starting point in June. It depends a little on when Parliament's committees decide on a timetable. In addition, it appears that the Ministry will forward-looking write on the Ministry's website when a bill enters into force. In addition, the Ministry's staff regularly advise the municipalities that the bill on citizenship notice is being discussed and that they can follow the three treatments and adoptions on the Danish Parliament's website. The municipalities are therefore currently aware of when the next bill is expected to be adopted, and the municipalities already have the opportunity to prepare for the next round of constitutional ceremonies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183717	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. As I understand it, we're pretty flexible in this coronatide. We're trying to set up the law so it's best suited to the terms. That is why it must also be fair, I think, to take account of a situation such as this one. In Fredericia, for example, a constitutional ceremony was held on 5 March for a week before we shut the country down and the new citizens have now obtained their citizenship, whereas in the neighbouring municipality of Vejle it is planned to wait until August when the ceremony was not held before the corona hit Denmark. And as I understand it from the Minister, there is an opportunity to show this flexibility and already become a Danish citizen before summer if the municipalities want to. Does the Minister think that it is fair that there is such a difference between when citizenship can be obtained and will the Minister try to promote that the municipalities are informed when there is actually a vote on this, so that you can become a citizen by the summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183826	The applicants who were in the neighbouring municipality of Fredericia were on the bill adopted before Christmas, and that month has long since passed, which must have passed before the ceremony can be held. So, in principle, that ceremony can be called until the day after the bill has entered into force and then they can hold it. I don't see any problem with that. However, I believe that many municipalities will join the group on the existing bill and organise the ceremony immediately after the summer break. But if the municipalities want to hold two ceremonies, they can just do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183906	Thank you. Many of the people who have sought Danish citizenship have spent a very long time on the process, so I am delighted if you can get it started. Often 2-3 years have been spent from the time one has applied for to the time one actually gets an answer. Annette Herzog is an example of this. Now many of those who were granted citizenship on the bill in January were further postponed their citizenship when many constitutional ceremonies were cancelled around Denmark, for example. in Esbjerg, where 25 citizens should have had the constitutional ceremony on 19 March. How long does the Minister intend to wait for them to clarify this time frame?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520183950	In the first place, they have to wait until the law is passed. However, the municipality of Esbjerg can convene a constitutional ceremony, if they so wish, right up to the summer holiday. There's no problem with that. They may also choose to join together with the applicants on the current bill and then hold the ceremony in August or September if they so wish. I understand that if you have been in line for a very long time, you would very much like to get to the box and have your citizenship. But I would also like to say that whether it is just at the end of June or at the beginning of August that you get your citizenship may not be what overturns the whole world. After all, people have lived in Denmark for many, many years. I understand it's awkward, but there's a lot of things at the moment there's a lot of fatigue. And I understand if the municipalities join up these ceremonies and wait until we get around the other side of the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184041	Here you go, that's the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184042	My final question would then be: what would the Minister think if the Minister himself were in the position where he had waited a long time for his application for citizenship and could not see an end to the whole process and was finally so close to the goal? How would the Minister feel in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184058	It's always hard to put yourself in someone else's place. But if I imagined that I had moved to Greece ten years ago and that I had sought Greek citizenship and the whole of Greece was shut down because of corona and that the Greek authorities told me that I was just going to wait until August, I think I would understand that. And I actually believe that the vast majority of applicants on these legislative proposals do. I really believe that the greatest deprivation they are suffering at the moment has nothing to do with their citizenship; it has something to do with everything else, all of us are also affected by. After all, they are subject to the same restrictions as all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184138	Thank you. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200520184145	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 26 May 2020. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
