ParlaMint-DK_20201125130010	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125130035	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 November. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125130054	We are a number of parties which have asked for this urgent request to be carried out today. We are very pleased that this has been possible. We have something that we at least have a large part of the Danish Parliament, and I also think a large part of the population think more and more rightly that it is a scandal, i.e. a mink scandal. We are talking about a situation in which a profession in Denmark has been wiped out or is in the process of being wiped out on the basis of an illegal act by the government. We will have to make sure that this is fully investigated. We need to ensure that those responsible are held accountable. And when you look at the law of ministerial accountability, which regulates how ministers act, it is clear that, as a minister, if you are aware that the action in question, which must not be carried out, is carried out and has failed to apply for it, then you will be responsible for the work that is being done here, the illegal act, that is to say, to actually put an end to all healthy minks in the country. The case is about the PM. We have some explanations that say a great many things, and there are a great many questions coming from the statements. However, one thing we certainly know undoubtedly is that during a weekend the Prime Minister will be aware that this is based on an illegal basis and will not intervene and stop the illegal act. What I and others would like to ensure we get an answer to in the next few hours is why, on the whole, the Prime Minister did not do what she has a duty to do when she knows that there is an illegality in her government, namely to stop the illegal act immediately and whether the Prime Minister does not agree that when you fail to do so, you actually break the law of ministerial accountability and thus the rules that apply to the actions of ministers. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125130252	Thank you. Then we need the answer, and first it's the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125130258	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the opportunity to come here today and explain the process of killing mink outside the infected zones. I'm gonna start with what for me is at the heart of this process. On 3 November, the government received a clear risk assessment from the health authorities, and I quote: 'A continued mink breeding during an ongoing COVID-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including the possibility of preventing COVID-19 with vaccines. We couldn't ignore that risk assessment. Therefore, the government made the difficult but necessary decision that all mink in Denmark had to be killed. Anything else would have been irresponsible. I have also noted that a majority in the Folketing agrees with the government on this point. This does not alter the fact that mistakes have been made in this matter and in the implementation of the resolution I have just described. It's obvious. It has also been made public in the statement which the then Minister for Food and Food forwarded to the Committee on the Environment and Food last week. There was a law to kill infected mink herds and herds within the infected zones, but not to kill the minks outside the infected zones. Of course, this must not happen, and it did happen anyway. This is to be regretted, and I have done so several times, and I would like to do so again, not least with regard to Danish mink growers. The former Minister for Food has resigned. The government has prepared an account of the whole process and an independent investigation will be initiated. The framework for it is currently being discussed between the parties in the Folketing. The question of the government's decision-making process in this matter and my role as Prime Minister is being asked in particular today. As the statement also shows, when we took the decision, and when we held the press conference, the government and I were not aware that there was no legal basis for killing mink outside the infected areas. What, moreover, should have been the motive of the government to the contrary, in other words to keep quiet that there was no legal basis, to come and ask the Folketing for it? In other words, in this case there is no motive. There is even the Government's coordination committee should have been informed that there was no legal basis for killing all minks, and all ministers who attended the press meetings should have been informed of this as well. As I have said before: if we had known that there was no legal basis for killing mink outside the infected areas, we would have said so, and at the same time we would have asked the Danish Parliament to agree to an emergency procedure and at the same time, of course, made it clear that until that legislation was in place, it was an invitation to the minkkeepers outside the infected zones, if we had known. Then there is the discussion that as Prime Minister I should have taken care of that is what has just been repeated: to stop the killing of mink outside the infected zones when I am presented on Sunday 8 November that there is a lack of legal basis. Some have also mentioned here the Prime Minister's duty of supervision. To that I would like to say that this discussion is based on some false ideas about what is the Prime Minister's job. On Sunday 8 November, when I send a letter to the President of Parliament requesting urgent procedure, the then Minister for Food is fully aware of the lack of legal basis. There are others who do, because the Minister for Food and his system had made contact with the parties in the Folketing itself, and later that evening the Minister for Food commented on the lack of legal basis in the public. At the same time, let me stress that I am not being informed on Sunday that something illegal should happen, for example. that the authorities should be carrying out forced killings outside the infected zones, or something like that. In this situation, it is perfectly reasonable and complete in accordance with the ministerial and supervisory duties that the Prime Minister expects the minister responsible, the minister responsible and the responsible authorities to take the necessary measures themselves. I have seen it described in some places that as Prime Minister I should have responded to a letter from the FDA to the minkkeepers on Friday 6 November, but as the statement shows, the Prime Minister's Office has not received that letter. And as can be seen, it is not until Monday that the Ministry of State is informed by the Ministry of Food about the letter and that the Ministry of Food is in the process of writing a new letter. The reaction in the Prime Minister's Office, as the statement shows, is that the new letter must be sent as soon as possible and that it must be coordinated with the Ministry of Justice. I myself will be informed of the letter on Tuesday morning; here is the new letter from the Danish Food Authority sent. Let me therefore say: that I should have intervened in the proceedings and communication of the Danish Food and Agriculture Office • important communication to minkkeepers in a letter, which I was not aware of, is unimportant. The fact that a decision is taken in a government committee with my participation does not alter the fact that it is the minister responsible and the responsible authorities who must ensure that it is implemented legally and properly. That's how it is under this government, that's how it was under the previous government and under governments before it. This isn't about pushing away responsibility. That is how a government and the Danish government of ministers operate. In conclusion, may I say something in relation to the allegations that fly through the air that I should have broken the law or even committed a breach of the constitution. That is simply wrong. As can also be seen from the Notice of the Ministry of Justice of 18 November, statements made at press meetings and other political announcements have no legal effect on citizens. The legal part of this explains the Minister of Justice. Then I would add that, like everyone else in this Parliament, I have signed to want to abide by the Constitution. The Constitution is the foundation on which Denmark stands, and I think it is an absurd claim when it is claimed from some quarters that the government should have a more relaxed, less respectful relationship with the Constitution than other parties in this matter. No matter how we turn and turn this question, as a country and as a population through the pandemic, we have to get out of it at least as strong as we were when it hit us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131013	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is the case that the two ministers together have 10 minutes, which means that a good three minutes have now been left for the Minister of Justice. It's just for information. Now there is the possibility that the general rapporteurs can have one question each, but that is not the normal one minute and one and a half minute. It's one minute. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131029	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I believe that there are some indications that the Prime Minister has not complied with his duty of supervision when the Prime Minister is informed that there is no legal basis for this, and the Prime Minister is now repeating what the Prime Minister said on 19 November: when the government takes the decision, we are not told that there is a lack of legal basis. And it will always be the case that it is the minister responsible who ensures that there is a legal basis. I mean, what you call in a schoolyard that it was Mogens who did it. The Prime Minister said earlier: we have an incredibly small State Department that does not run anything in political work, and it does not fit my temper, if I am to be the prime minister of the country. Because then it's my responsibility. So it's not anymore? Why didn't the Prime Minister do something when the Prime Minister found out that the Prime Minister was acting illegally, given that the Prime Minister thinks it is the Prime Minister who is responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131131	It is simply a wrong premise to put forward the question, because the question signals that the Prime Minister did not do anything, as the Prime Minister, who is myself, becomes aware that there is no legal basis. That is simply not true. I am presented with a case on Sunday and react very quickly to it by sending a letter to the President of the Danish Parliament stating that we are asking for urgent procedure so that the legal basis can be put in place. So that is a reaction, and I also think it is the right reaction. When it comes to the Ministry of Food, I think it is quite obvious that the moment one became aware that there is no legal home, it must be communicated both internally to the government, but also to the Folketing, the public and, above all, to the mink growers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131226	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131227	This is completely wrong. In other words, if the Prime Minister gets to know on Sunday that you administer on an illegal basis, then the Prime Minister says that you immediately get to grips with it, that you ask the Folketing to change the legislation, you have to start by stopping the illegal acts, and when you have stopped the illegal acts, you come to the Folketing and say: 'We would like to have the authority to do something other than what we do, because we think that is justified by all kinds of important things. And the Danish Parliament has shown this in the past in this corona course to have an incredibly great understanding of that. But you have to stop the illegal activities first. So I have to ask the Prime Minister: what is the Prime Minister doing on this Sunday to be sure that the administration, the government administration, as executive authority in this country, is not based on illegality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131313	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131313-2	There's nothing wrong with this, as they say. There's a missing legal home, and that's a problem. It is also a problem that, as soon as we find out from the responsible authority and the Ministry responsible that there is a lack of a legal basis, we do not immediately point this out. I think it is true, as Prime Minister, that I am informing the Danish Parliament and, in this connection, asking for the urgent handling of the legislation to be put in place. I think that is a correct response.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131348	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131349	What does the Prime Minister mean by drawing attention to? Who should be reminded of this? Well, the moment you find out that there is something that is not legal for, wouldn't the natural reaction have been that you had communicated it immediately and stopped what is going on? What we have to bear in mind, Prime Minister, is that while we recognise this, there are authorities who come out in military cars and large suits to these farms and demand that what is at least perceived as an order be carried out. Can the Prime Minister not understand the people's experiences of what on earth has been going on and that they feel deeply offended by their legal awareness?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131450	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131451	Yes, I can completely understand what it's like to be a mink in a country that, because of a global pandemic, has to knock down the animals that you may have lived on and lived with and built up your life's work for generations. And the course that has been around the mincows is critical. We have also said this on other occasions, and I am very sorry that it has been done in the way it has been done. So, yes, I can understand how difficult it is for minkkeepers, for their families, for their employees and, incidentally, for the associated professions and communities. That is why, of course, it would also have been the most correct and, in my view, necessary, that, as soon as authority becomes aware that there is no legal basis, it should have been communicated to the mink growers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131546	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131547	There is no doubt that we in the SF agree with the decision to cut down all minks in Denmark, and there is no doubt that this was necessary in this situation. However, we may be a little surprised that the government has not prepared better, and that is actually what I would like to ask. After all, we are parties which have been extremely concerned about the spread of infection in mink production for a relatively long time, and we have also been pointing out publicly for a long time that it was not responsible to put new animals in the world after the next furning season. Why is it that the government is not better prepared for this situation? As far as I am concerned, it is also the lack of preparation that may cause the process to become so chaotic and to be the subject of as much debate as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131636	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131637	Firstly, I would like to acknowledge that there are not many individual parties in the Danish Parliament who have been very, very concerned throughout this process with the danger and potential danger of continuing to have minkboard during a global pandemic. It is true that SF and Enhedslisten in particular play a special role here. It has also been known to the whole parliament for a few months that there has been a risk associated with minkavl in Denmark, and that is why safety zones have been created at all. That is also why the killing of mink has begun on a number of farms. At the same time, however, I would like to say that taking such a far-reaching, serious and so violent decision to knock down all the minks in my view is only possible when we receive a risk assessment which we receive at the beginning of November. Because it's so heavy and it's so hard a decision that you have to be sure that's what's right to do. However, I fully recognise that there are parties that have been focusing on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131741	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131743	Thank you. I think that when we are some people who care a great deal about this, it is not because we expect the Prime Minister to call the ministers every day and ask: have you observed the law today, is that something you do not have just under control? It is because it is an entire profession that is being wiped out and that one finds out: Hey, we have simply given an instruction here that is not legal. In other words, on the farms where there is no infection and which are outside the zones, there is no legal basis for requiring them to be killed. Then I think it's natural enough in such a big case that a prime minister just calls the food minister or gets somebody to do it and asks, "Hey, did you stop this; did you stop the lawbreaking that's going on? It is a little difficult to understand, i.e. that it is not stopped when you are aware that it is illegal. Why you don't secure it in such a big case is hard to understand. This isn't an everyday thing; this is a huge case. I find it hard to understand that the Prime Minister doesn't think we should have stopped that. That is why I cannot understand why the Prime Minister thinks it is enough to write to the President of Parliament and that she does not say: stop it, it is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131848	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131849	Firstly, I still believe that it is right to inform the Folketing. This is also what the Minister for Food is doing to the relevant rapporteurs, and which I, as Prime Minister, am doing to the President of the Danish Parliament. Then, of course, I shall base myself on this, and I believe that the responsible authorities and the minister responsible will ensure not only that the legal basis is put in place, but also that the problems that exist will be corrected, including of course informing mink farmers that there is no legal basis for what has been done. Then there is also, I think, in some of the questions whether we should have said at that time that we should not kill mink in Denmark at all. I would also say that this is a wrong premise, because in my view there is a great difference between pointing out that there is a lack of legal basis and that it is therefore voluntary to put them to death and even to stop killings, which I cannot see would be justified in terms of public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131948	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125131950	Thank you. And thank the Prime Minister for his answer. There is no doubt that serious mistakes have been made in this process, but I would like to return to the whole process leading up to it, which is why the government did not intervene earlier. The decision to derogate from this meant that the infection on mink farms increased and actually increased exponentially during the month of September. There came these mincreservoirs. And there were indeed warnings from the health authorities that there was a concrete threat. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is simply whether the Prime Minister thinks that the government has maintained the precautionary principle which should, of course, focus public health on protecting us from the developments that then meant that we had to act so quickly and so abruptly and so chaoticly at the last minute. Does the Prime Minister think that adequate measures have been taken to protect public health in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132057	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132059	In other words, it has been the government and the Folketing and, as such, the public have been aware for several months now that there is a risk associated with mink breeding. We've known that. We have also seen some outbreaks of infection, among others. in Hjørring, which was related to mink. So we all knew there was a risk. And then the authorities have tried as I understand it... some different strategies to contain the infection that relates to mink, and have also changed strategy along the way. It turns out that you can't contain the infection that exists and you can't take good care of people when it comes to contamination from the mines. On top of that comes the risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institute, which is about mutation and the risk associated with it in relation to a future vaccine. And there we are in a situation where it is black and white that the risk to the people in this global pandemic is simply too great with a continued mink, and therefore the decision is taken. I would just like to repeat once again: to make such a far-reaching decision, I do not think we have any evidence to make until we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132211	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132213	Thank you. As the Prime Minister gives the illegal order at the press conference, the Prime Minister himself mentions that an emergency plan for killing is now being put in place and that it is being dealt with under the auspices of the national operational staff under police command and with the assistance of the Defence and Emergency Response Board and the Home Guard. And then they start killing mink after the Prime Minister, at a press conference, takes the lead in getting it started. Subsequently, the government finds out that it is illegal, and we must then understand that the reason why the Prime Minister is not doing anything to stop the illegal order from the defense, from the NOST, from the police, etc. etc. Even if you can see in the following days that the illegal order is not withdrawn, and the Prime Minister can see that too, then the Prime Minister chooses to • we must understand sitting on our hands and saying: No, it is not my responsibility; the other ministers must do that; they must do it themselves with the authorities; I have no responsibility for this. Is it correct to understand that this is the reason why the Prime Minister is not doing anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132319	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132320	No, that's not correct. And I do not think it is a proper representation of what was going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132326	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132327	Thank you. You can see this as sloppy, as really bad governance. It can also be seen as abuse of power, especially in the days and weeks after the government has recognised that there was no legal basis for doing what it did. The Prime Minister is trying to convince us that the Prime Minister has done what the Prime Minister was supposed to do by warning the President of Parliament that now there would be some urgent legal treatment, but the fact is that on Thursday the Prime Minister sits on national television and tells a mink grower outside the infected zones that the mink grower must put all his healthy animals to death. And the PM doesn't have a legal basis for that. So the Prime Minister continues his illegal order and misuses the power given to the Prime Minister. That is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132420	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132421	I totally disagree with that and there is no abuse of power. The interview referred to here is given at a time when there is complete clarity in Denmark that there is no legal basis. It's not up for discussion. The government has announced that there has been no legal basis for the announcement made at the press conference. But that does not change the health risk. It goes without saying that it is absolutely essential to communicate that there is no legal basis, and therefore it cannot be considered an order that the minks outside the safety zone should be killed. But that does not change the fact that the minks should be killed because they pose a serious health risk to the people living in Denmark, and it is and remains the government's responsibility and, in my view, also the Parliament's primary task to look after public health. But of course it has to be done on a basis where there is a legal basis. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132521	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. And then it's the Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132535	It is now almost 9 months since the first Dane was tested positive with covid-19. All in all, it has been a few difficult months, but Denmark, when compared to the outside world, has at least so far come through the epidemic, not least thanks to an enormous effort by our authorities and the Danish population. It's important to remember. The government said back in March that there would certainly be errors in dealing with the epidemic. And as the Prime Minister has said, unfortunately there are many things in this process that have gone wrong. Of course, there is reason to regret that, and the government has done so. And it is fair that we have a critical debate on how to deal with this. Where the debate for me is running off track is when it is turned into a matter of law when there is a shouting of basic law violations or illegal orders in a row. That is why I would like to use the 1 minute and 52 seconds I have to try to get the debate back on track. Firstly, it is simply not true that the government should have given an illegal order. As indicated in the notice of the Ministry of Justice of 18 November, a statement at a press conference cannot constitute an order to citizens, in this case the mink growers. It is therefore legally wrong to refer to the statements made at the press conference as an order. As the notice also shows, the statements made at press meetings and other political statements do not have any legal effects on citizens. The opinions are therefore not covered by the legal basis requirements of the principle of legality. It is therefore legally wrong that the government's statements should begin to be described as illegal or even unconstitutional. It will no longer be right to say that if the opinions had been rules or decisions, they would have required legal basis. The point is that no mink growers are legally bound by those statements. And then I am guaranteed that someone will accuse me of carrying out legal and word clues, but if anyone is accused in the public debate of having acted illegally, then one must also put up with the need to argue with legal arguments. In other words, if you qualify something in legal terms, then you will also have to take the debate with legal counter-arguments. Then there is another question: what has actually happened out there in fact and as the Danish Food Authority has stated, the fact is, no matter how critical and regrettable the process has been, that the authorities from everything that has been stated have not killed mink outside the infected areas, where there is a legal basis for killing. So the killings carried out by the authorities have been carried out on the basis of legal grounds and if there are mink farmers who have suffered losses because they have acted in accordance with the authority's messages, then compensation may be claimed where appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132858	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is now another possibility of one question from each of the general rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125132904	Thank you. It is true that the Minister of Justice is lawyers and secularism, but that is fair enough when you are the Minister of Justice. I would actually like to ask the Minister to explain why the Minister did not stop the efforts of the police, the defence efforts, which were, thankfully, rarely deployed against their own citizens, immediately. Why didn't this stop immediately when the Minister of Justice becomes aware that this was an illegal order? There was no legal basis for killing healthy mink. Why was it that they didn't tell the police? After all, it is not the fault of the former Minister of Food this time. Why didn't the Justice Minister stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133000-2	The action card which the police are pursuing in their talks with mink farmers on healthy mink farms can rightly be seen as the authorities intend to impose the killings if the mink farmers themselves do not want to do so. And that is one of the things the government has regretted: this miscommunication is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133032	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133033	I really think the Minister for Justice weighs his words on a gold weight because he has to say something that can hold up in court, I almost said, later. Well, the thing is, if you say that this order that comes to the press on 4 November is not a legal order, why do the authorities follow it? After all, the authorities act as if they have now been told that the healthy mink outside the infected zones must now be put to death, and that is probably what makes the Ministry of Justice say in the statement we have been given: However, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, the overall act of the authorities has led the mink growers outside the infected zones to assume that they were legally obliged to start killing their mink. So the Ministry of Justice itself acknowledges that what was put into the whole framework of the press conference in the first place, where this order was given, which the Minister of Justice now suddenly believes to be of less importance, has had the effect that the mink growers are left with the experience of the authorities that they are legally obliged to put their mink to death, and the authorities acted on the basis of what was said at this press conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133138	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133139	No, that is where I think the chain is jumping off: what is it that makes the authorities act as they do? And the press conference, no matter how convenient it would be for the argument, is certainly not a place where decisions can be taken or administrative regulations made by the public or the authorities to comply with for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133205	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133206	Now let's assume that the radical position was such a kind of rescue for the government, so the Minister of Justice doesn't make it that easier it isn't! I have a bit of a feeling that this is the way to throw out a bailout, and then the minister swims out longer and longer. What the Minister is saying is, excuse me, totally provocative to listen to, and I think it is for all the people who have experienced what has happened in the real world, and so I come back to the same question that I also asked the Prime Minister: does the Minister of Justice understand that there are no people in this country who are just so moving out in the real world who understand a spectacle of what the Minister of Justice is saying there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133310	Many answers can be given. There may be the answer that it is now not about doing what is popular or easy, but what is right. There may also be the answer that if you want to enter into such a technical-legal debate, you will have to take the technical-legal debate on what are the technical-legal rules, and that is as such just what I am trying to say: that what is being said at a press conference or other political announcements you may make is neither administrative regulations nor concrete management decisions that can create rights or obligations for citizens. It is just super important to hold on to the fact that when you say that some things happened at the press conference that you want to qualify as a violation of the constitution or illegal or anything else, it simply stands on the wrong legal premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133358	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133401	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice. Now the Justice Minister said this is about lawyers and word clippings. But what is certainly not a legal profession and a vocabulary is that there are citizens who have been specifically contacted by the National Police with the assumption that there was a legal basis for them to put their mink to death. And there the Minister also says that this is regrettable. I think it may have been lax enough to say that this is regrettable, because it is a rather serious matter that an authority should address a citizen without having a legal basis and try to impose an act on the citizen. So I would like to hear the Minister for Justice: how do we ensure this is not going to happen again? How do we ensure that this will be something that only happens once and will not happen again? Because that is quite a serious violation of citizens' freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133457	But I agree with that. And in relation to the matter of classifying it as regrettable, I would say that it is possible to find other words to put on, which better describe what has happened. What I am just trying to say is that what happened to the action card should not have happened; that the course there was should not have been as it was; that it should have been corrected by addressing those who had had conversations after the action card. And as I see it, about 250 people have been contacted about 8 people have come down in the situation where they say: this is something that is going to happen in any case. And so you move in where there are errors. And then you actually get hold of the 8 and say, "That's not what it was; now you'll hear what the right thing is." So the police are trying to correct this very serious mistake that is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133552	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133555	Thank you. As far as these action cards are concerned, it is quite clear that a very big mistake has been made and police have called people on the basis of action cards. Can the Minister of Justice confirm whether the Ministry of Justice has had or has not had any influence on what was stated in the actioncards used by police officers? Did the Ministry tell the police that it has to be said on it? That's how we want you to say in relation to the action card?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133634	That is a good question and one of the first questions which I, of course, also asked, given the place where I sit. And in relation to everything I have been able to find out, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Justice have no influence whatsoever, as in any influence whatsoever, on the design and use of the action card. But what else is worth saying and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is also guaranteed that already on 5 November we will help to say to the National Police: there is therefore a legal problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133707	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133708	After all, it has been the task of the Minister for Justice to have the Prime Minister acquitted in advance, a somewhat ungrateful task, from which I think the Minister is getting off pretty little, if you may put it that way. The Minister of Justice has put some of his more than a thousand highly educated lawyers on the case, and the press and the Danes apparently need to be convinced that the Prime Minister did not give an order to kill all minks in Denmark at all; it was obviously just something that the police and the army and the FDA and the Danes and all the minkkeepers had completely misunderstood, and that is what can happen in such a social democratic rule of law, one must understand. But the fact is that the law has been broken, that responsibility lies in one place, namely with the Prime Minister. So I have to ask: is it the task of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to have Mrs Mette Frederiksen acquitted? Or is it not the task of the Ministry of Justice to ensure law and order in Denmark, and that criminals are found, convicted and punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133810	I spend almost all my time making sure that there is security in Denmark and that criminals are found and convicted and punished, and there is no reason at all to screw up a rhetoric where there is a hint that in this field, where I look, the Prime Minister is also present. That is simply not the case. This is not a violation of the constitution, it is not a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133837	Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133839	Thank you. Of pure interest: if such a similar situation arises again with the spread of infection in animal production, will the procedure be the same, namely that one must form a majority in order to be able to take such a decision, and if we are in such a situation again, does the Minister really believe that the legislation should be designed in a way that made it easier for a government to combat an epidemic in such a situation and to beat down all animals? Or what does the Minister think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133910	Perhaps the issue addresses the epidemic law that we are about to deal with, and some of what we have done is to have had consultations with all the parties of the Folketing on how to make the epidemic law look, so as to ensure that there is sufficient health advice, that a government can actually act and that the Folketing is involved in the relevant way. We are looking for these balances now, and I very much hope that we can find them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133938	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125133940	Thank you. I'd like to get a little smarter about this, because the PM at the press conference says that every mink has to be killed, that's not an order. So the interesting thing is, when will the order be placed? And who gives it? We're pretty curious about that for good reasons. At the press conference on the non-order to kill all minks, the Prime Minister says that an emergency plan is being put in place for the killing, and it is being handled under the auspices of the National Operational Staff under police command and with the assistance of the Defence, Emergency Management and Home Guard. I'm not thinking that the police and the Emergency Department and the Home Guard and the defense are going to launch an illegal killing of mink without a clear order. So when the Prime Minister tells us about the order already given, we have to understand about the implementation of this plan, who gives that order?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134024	Well, where you probably have the best impact point on it is probably the letter from the Danish Food Authority to all mink farmers on 6.11. that all mink in the country should be killed, and that there will be a bonus at the quick discharge, where you can say that this should be found in the letter, you might say, show the standards. Of course, what becomes crucial in the legal qualification is: will it be said that it is a decision that is being made, or will it be said that it is a guide? The Ministry of Justice's assessment is in the note of 18 November, which you have also received, that this is a guide. This is, of course, a wrong guide, because a guide must be in accordance with the truth, and a guide is given here which does not explain the legal basis that is lacking.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134115	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. We are now through the answer and will then have to go to the negotiations. It is the case that we have nine rapporteurs, and I think there is also a desire for ministers to come back to the floor. It takes some form of self-discipline, and ordinary arithmetic says that if everyone spends their time, we're down to about 11-12 questions. I'm just saying it as a service message from the start. Then it's mr. Kristen Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134142	Thank you for that, President-in-Office, and of course also thanks to the ministers for having been up here and giving some answers, although I think there is a great deal going on. If we turn the time back to November 4, when the public was told about the killing of all minks in Denmark, we also had an hour and a half before a party leader meeting, where we were briefed on this landmark event. We were also told that there was no time for discussion, we were also told that there was no time for what might be called a second opinion, there was no time for others to come in and have anything to say. We should've just killed every mink, and it had to happen quickly. There was no one, I think, of us who doubted for one second that this was a clear speech by the government and by the Prime Minister at the press conference at 8 a.m. 16.00: All mink was to be killed in Denmark. As a Parliament, we must expect that when the government makes such a landmark decision, it has, of course, made sure that it has the legislation in place to do so. We must expect the government, if it subsequently finds out that there is a mistake, that it did not have a legal basis to do what it did, then immediately, immediately, to have the illegal practice stopped immediately, and then to address the Folketing in order to change the legislation so that you can do what you want. We cannot imagine in the Folketing that the government simply continues the illegal practice that it continues to implement and conduct its governance on an illegal basis, but the government did so in this context. When it comes to corona in Denmark, the Prime Minister has done his best to put on the guide volume and mark out to the Danes that she personally is the head of the government's efforts in relation to the corona virus. The Prime Minister himself presented this order, the illegal order, at his press conference on 4 November. Then it is also the Prime Minister's responsibility to clean up, and it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to take real responsibility for this illegal decision and the execution it has had. The answer we have from, I think it is by 19 November, shows that there are no infected minks crews on Zealand, Lolland-Falster and Funen on Zealand, Lolland-Falster and Funen so something could suggest that there had actually been time for a thorough discussion of this, i.e. whether the whole mink industry really ought to bear or had to bear in relation to the corona fight in this country. We know from the statements that have been made that there are a lot of unresolved issues. We know that on 1 October there will be a meeting of the government's covid-19 committee. We know that, in preparation for that meeting, there is an annex stating that it is not considered to have the necessary powers to kill all healthy minks. We know that the Prime Minister's Office is apparently told a long time before the Prime Minister is informed that there is a problem, and it is as if there is a collective awareness in the government that you should leave the Prime Minister out of it. The Prime Minister is the only one who cannot know that there is no legal basis for what is going on. Frankly, it seems strange. You have police and military authorities to execute your illegal decision. This is something that is fairly clear across the public, it is something that is discussed in all sorts of places. A prime minister, who has put himself in charge of the corona fight in Denmark, is obviously not interested in what is actually going on in these days, is not told by his ministerial colleagues, no one is told by the employee in the Prime Minister's Office who gets a telephone message such as that what you do may be based on an illegal basis. She doesn't get any message, but she's the one who put on the guide tape. But no one tells the PM anything about it. That sounds strange. That is why, of course, there is a need for us to have this examined in an in-depth report, so that we have a model for a study that makes it possible for the Folketing and thus the Danish people to be sure that everything will come for one day, and it is a Commission study that is suitable for that. I have to say that it is difficult to see other places where a Commission study would be more relevant. I would therefore like to make the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's handling of the minks canal has been deeply problematic and that there is uncertainty about the government's internal decision-making processes, which led to the illegal order to kill healthy mink. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government, in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, to draw up a mandate for a rapid-working commission of inquiry throughout the proceedings. V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134617	Thank you for that and it is now part of the further debate. Now it's like I have four questioners here. Two are from the same party, and the party only gets one question. As I said, it takes account of the number of questions available, so I would ask you to think carefully. And then a service message: When I get up, it's not because there's still half a minute left. Then it is because the speaking time has been spent. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134652	Thank you. I can promise that we will limit our inquisitiveness, out of respect for the fact that there will be time for everything. It is just striking when the Danish People's Party is touring around with a video on the web that the Prime Minister must be locked up and everything else. Well, it's a rhetoric, which is very, very skewed. There remains a question, even though mistakes have been made. Now I'm just reading from the risk assessment: If mink production continues in Denmark... Overall, the flock immunity obtained by vaccines or over infection may be weakened or absent. That's what was on the table. If it had been known that there was no legal basis and that it had been said that we are now going to knock down the minks and need to get the Folketing to secure the necessary legal basis, would the Danish People's Party have supported it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134749	Therefore, we have always had the view that it should be examined whether it was possible to keep mink breeding in Denmark, whether it could be identified and beat down the sick herds, also in the peripheral zones around, and whether it was possible, for example, to keep so many breeding animals in Denmark that there could be mink breeding in the future. We've been fighting for that all along. That is also why we wanted a second opinion on the government decision that was taken and that we were informed of at the party leader's meeting on 4 November. So we've attacked this differently than the government has. It's an honest case. That's how we've been. And that is why it would have been wonderful if we had had a democratic process about this, instead of the government having carried out this decision on an illegal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134830	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134831	Back in June and July there are 3 infected mink herds; in September it is 9; on 1 October it is 40; at the beginning of November it is 200 infected mink herds. It's rising and rising and rising. All the while, there has been an intensive work of authority to shield this from, and it has not succeeded. This is clear from the risk assessment carried out by the Serum Institute. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl really that the government should then have said: let's try to ask some other scientists? And if they had then said that they were a little in doubt about the risk assessment, should the government have followed it and said: we are ignoring the developments that are taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134904	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134905	With the course, as Mr. Bruus just reproduces, it is striking that during the same period there have been discussions among officials on the legal basis in order, if necessary, to take a decision to kill all minks. Since June, I think it has come to light, there have been such discussions among the officials. When the government has been so concerned about this situation, how can it be that at any time, when you have discussed how to deal with this situation, you have also discussed what legal basis you had for one scenario, for the other scenario, for the third scenario?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134940	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125134943	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has neglected the spread of infection in mink production throughout this process, and the party's rapporteur, Mrs Lise Bech, has been out publicly, in the Agricultural Newspaper on 27 October, proposing to go against the recommendations of the health authorities and stop killings within the 7.8-kilometre limit. How does the Danish People's Party feel about neglecting this violent issue throughout the whole process and actually also pressured the government to take less offensive action than was necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135017	I mean, if we should have looked like somebody who has managed to push the government on this issue, we certainly haven't done it very well, because it doesn't seem like we've been listened to so much. But it's quite true that all the way through, we've had a different line than this, that you'd have to end up knocking down every mink. And as I say, according to the answer to a question we have here, until November 19th, the Ministry has informed us that there are no infected crews on Zealand, Lolland, Falster and Funen. Well, these are some areas where no coronasmite has been found among minks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135053	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135055	That is, in fact, correct. The infection just spread really explosively, and if you had done as the Danish People's Party wanted, and had stopped killings within the 7.8-kilometre zone, it would probably have gone even faster. I would just like to know whether the Danish People's Party recognizes that it has suffered responsibility also for the fact that if the government has not acted offensively enough in this process of spreading the infection, it has been very violent, including in the population. At one point you could see that half of the infected Northern Jutlanders were infected with a mink variant. How's DF feeling about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135128	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135129	No. The answer is no. I mean, I can just say that if you say, for example... Having listened to the profession, these are some of the objections that have come from the minkkeeper's profession and had consistently knocked down the sick crews from the start, they would have been in a different situation today; they certainly say so. But they say that there has not been the dialogue with the industry that has made it possible. So, frankly, I think it is the government that has an explanation problem here. And you can say that no matter what you think about the role of the Danish People's Party, it does not exempt the government from ensuring that what you do is based on a legal basis adopted here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135201	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135202	Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard came right into the studio, I had almost said, but into the Assembly Hall. And it is a well-known fact that the view and idea put forward by the Radical Left in these days, namely that we should have a parliamentary inquiry into this, because in a parliamentary democracy we should always do our homework before we outsource control of the government elsewhere, is the birth of the Danish People's Party and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. It's not even our own. Why is the Danish People's Party so reluctant to support the idea that is theirs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135243	Neither are we. We certainly support the development of that instrument, sir. Jens Rohde speaks in favour, so we have a middle point between, on the one hand, a lawyer's investigation, which only looks at written contributions, and, on the other hand, a commission of inquiry which can question the rights of witnesses, so the whole line goes out. It would be a good thing for the Danish Parliament to establish a basis for having a middle point. What Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, in her capacity as President of the Danish Parliament, fought for and could not get through here in the Danish Parliament, we would certainly still like to implement. The thing is, that model isn't here today. We don't have it today. So you first have to develop it. And we also think that this case has a character in which a commission of inquiry is actually in place, so we have the assurance that everything will be reversed, so that the Danes will see what has actually happened throughout the minkskan Valley.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135327	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135329	Thank you. I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that we need an independent investigation into this process. But I would like to hear about the priorities of the Danish People's Party. Now I myself come up from North Jutland, from Hjørring, where we experienced the first outbreaks on the mink farms, and where we saw that the infection also spread to older centres. We found out that there was infection between mink and people and that it had direct consequences also for our vulnerable, vulnerable elderly citizens that there was this infection. We also knew through the process that the infection spread both from mink to man and back again. We knew that dangerous mutations arose which could have an impact on a future vaccine, but which at least had direct and concrete significance for the people who were in those areas. Is it really the priority of the Danish People's Party to say that we neglect it; we ignore it; we have to go out and have a second opinion? And it was, at the same time, that the infection increased exponentially on mink farms, with the risk that it would spread to the local community, where it could affect vulnerable elderly citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135434	No, certainly not. Of course, we should not neglect it. We have in no way neglected the necessary efforts to combat corona in Denmark. Since March, we have fully supported a lot of initiatives and an unprecedented degree of transfer of power from the Folketing to the government in order to deal with this corona situation. What we have just asked for along the way is that at the same time parties should be involved on a proper basis, so that we know what they are based on, and also have an influence on what is to happen. We think the government has failed there. We have been making that clear for a long time. It's nothing new. It's not the minkskandal that does it. That's what we said before the minkskandal. I just think that this case around the minks actually illustrates that, too, I think the people have realized that the government has gone too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135527	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135528	Well, I agree that there must be involvement, but here we are talking quite specifically about an infection from mink to people who have a direct consequence for some vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. And that also requires some kind of political action. So if the Danish People's Party were involved in this, did the Danish People's Party agree that consideration for our vulnerable and our elderly vulnerable citizens should be above consideration for a profession, when we can see what direct consequences it has had, and when we have seen the warnings from the Statens Serum Institut that it had a direct impact on public health?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135601	No, it is a very long way from taking this seriously and taking the decision to eliminate the entire industry. And one of the things we can see in the statement is that, after all, there has been some thought in the government in relation to the fact that it has some consequences, in other words, of course, in addition to the fact that it has some consequences for the families who see their life's work disappear and do not feel that they have been properly involved and do not feel that they have enough standing in relation to why it was necessary to make that decision. In other words, when you think about it, plus, of course, that it is also a major industry in Denmark in relation to turnover and economy etc., it is just something where you have to say that there is a long way to abolish the entire industry because on the other hand you want to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135639	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125135649	Thank you for that, President. If there's something we've learned in this health crisis, it's that we have to be on the cutting edge and act quickly. That is actually why we in Denmark have managed well through the crisis. 'Cause it's been going well. Together we have managed to keep the infection down and the economy up. We have been in control without shutting down more than necessary and all because, as Danes, we have had great confidence and have followed the recommendations that have come from our health authorities. But the crisis is not over. It's bouncing out there. The disease is violent and is much more violent in many parts of Europe than it was in the spring. 600,000 Danes are at risk of dying of the covid-19 • 600,000. And many more are at risk of having serious consequences if they get hit by this infection. So it's deadly serious. That's why it's together that we have to deal with this crisis. There have been plenty of uncertainty, dissatisfaction and frustrations along the way, but we have solved it. We have shown unity and socialism, but also with the recognition that we cannot get through this without making mistakes. And there we are now with the decision-making process around mink, and yes, major mistakes have been made. It should not be neglected. But that does not change the fact that the decision was the right one in the light of the risk assessment. That is why, of course, it is also reasonable, as has already been explained, that the process should be explained and that it should also be examined externally. But are the mistakes that have been made big enough for us to scrap the tools that so far have worked and got us through the crisis well? The fact that we can no longer, as a Parliament or as a population, trust the health authorities will make the consequences of that mistake even more severe. And that is why it is shameful to see how quickly the bourgeois parties have plunged into a showdown not only with the government, the government must tolerate criticism, but the even more seriously also with distrust of our authorities. The question arises as to whether we can rely on the risk assessments of the SSI and whether the statements made by a number of ministries are not purely on ordering. There are calls for violation of the constitution and conspiracy theories. The Left now wants us not to rely unequivocally on the ratings of the SSI. It has to be subjected to more eyes to make a so-called second opinion. That leaves the question: what would they have done in this situation? How would the Left have dealt with this? If the assessment from the SSI had been questioned by another group of scientists, what would the government do? Should it say to the Danes: there is a clear and very serious risk assessment from the SSI that, despite the fact that the authorities have worked intensively to contain the infection from mink, we are in a situation where it is a danger to public health and a danger to the vaccines that are coming? And should we then have said to the Danes: we are not responding to that; we have a better risk assessment from XYZ, which estimates that the risk is potentially slightly smaller? Then should the government have made the choice to wear it? And how long would that take while we saw the infection rising and rising? I had the opportunity to say this before: 40 herds in October, 200 in November. It does not seem like a solution that is in harmony with what we have actually learned so far, namely that we must act on the risk assessments that come from our health authorities if we want to remain in control. That is why the attack on the authorities and the officials is serious. And being responsible for our authorities is the responsibility of the government alone, or is it not also the responsibility of the rest of the Folketing? Do not the Danes have a right to see a Parliament working together to get Denmark safely through the crisis? Thank you for the floor. And then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten. Suggestions for adoption The decision to knock down all mink is right in the light of the clear and serious risk assessment by health authorities. Unfortunately, serious errors have been made in the decision-making process. The process must therefore undergo an independent investigation and work on a new parliamentary investigative tool which can be used if necessary. • V 15).
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140115	This is then part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140119	Thank you. When I was a young political rapporteur in the Left, we had a group chairman named Christian Mejdahl, and when I so threw myself into straggling and a little too violent attack, he came quietly and said: Do you think that is appropriate? I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus, if, in the situation as it is now, he thinks it is appropriate to engage in such violent stranglehold attacks on those parties who, of course, would just like to have an answer to what has happened in the world. It has nothing to do with wanting to undermine the health authorities. It has something to do with the fact that we want our democracy and the rule of law to work, regardless of the situation we are in, and I do not think that Mr. Jeppe Bruus' speech so signaled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140223	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140224	But I have also had the opportunity to meet and to talk to Christian Mejdahl; he is a very wise master. If it was just a stubborn attack I was standing here from the platform and coming along, fair enough. But it's not. There are, of course, numerous examples, unfortunately, of very serious doubts about the recommendations that are being made and also of conspiring whether it is now not the government that has sat and written those recommendations with its hand. That is the reality. And that is why I do not think it is quite unacceptable to mention it in this debate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140254	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140256	Well, sir. Jeppe Bruus, I really don't think anyone wants to undermine the authorities. We just have a discussion about what has happened, on the basis of a pure confession case, namely that the government has acknowledged that there is and was a legal basis for what was going on. We know that. So I guess it's natural to ask these questions, and that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus: What will the Socialists do to investigate the whole matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140330	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140333	Well, we'd like to help investigate. We also have cooperation, the two of us, in the committee that is going to help a little on the way. But I'd just like to challenge it when Mr. Jens Rohde says no one's conspiring about this: That's not true. In other words, there are numerous examples, unfortunately, of the fact that very serious doubts are being raised about the risk assessments and recommendations that come from the health authorities, and I just think this is very, very serious, and that makes the mistakes that exist in this matter, in other words the consequences of them even greater for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140401	Thank you. It has now been well an hour. We have reached two rapporteurs. Much of the short comments that are needed have been used. That is why it is simply my view that there will be no further brief comments to the present rapporteur, otherwise we will not be able to achieve anything that looks like reasonable in this. I hope there is an understanding of that. Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140426	Thank you for that, President. The Left wants a speedy commission of inquiry into all this. We do that because there are so many unanswered questions in this case. The government itself calls it a simple mistake. That is simply not the impression I am left with when I have read the government's own statement. And it can be said that this is the same impression that I am left with now, having heard the replies of the ministers here today. One thing is absolutely certain, however, and that is that the government has broken the law. The illegal order was a breach of the Constitution of the Danish Empire. The government has run red with the Prime Minister behind the steering wheel and the entire government coordination committee sitting in the back seat. No one is in doubt about that, not even the government itself. The Prime Minister seems rather proud of his own ability to act, because, as the Prime Minister has said on several occasions, the Prime Minister would do so again. As the former Minister of Food has said to a written quote to several media and written quotes, you make an effort, because there you have people to actually read them: The government has decided that it was urgent, given the seriousness of the situation. That is why it has been estimated that no new legislation could be expected before this date. It is not exactly a statement that gives the impression of a government that regrets anything. On the contrary, it gives some impression that it is a government that says that the law must give way to the Prime Minister's will. I think this is absurd and I think it is wrong in every way possible. And I think it must be just as wrong when the Prime Minister insists that she has acted quite correctly. Because what I'm wondering is the rush. The government had known about virus mutations in mink since September. It was in Information just yesterday. Why, then, is it not until November that we react? What actually happened in the intervening period? We also need an answer to that. I am surprised that it was decided to kill all the breeding animals because, as Kåre Mølbak has said, the risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institut did not take a position on the killing of breeding minks. We can read in the statement that there was also a hibernation model on the table when the decision was to be made. And we need answers to that. Then I also wonder why nothing was done to stop the illegal order. And here we are, in fact, at the heart of this very case. Why didn't the Prime Minister do anything at all when the Prime Minister realized that the police and the army were engaged on an illegal basis to put an entire profession to death in a case where it has been imperative for the Prime Minister to be at the forefront every time with clear orders slash recommendations, but when things went wrong, well, it was some others' responsibility, then it wasn't the Prime Minister's responsibility? I can't believe it. We also need answers to that. This whole case shows that the Prime Minister has not managed the extensive trust shown by the Honourable Things to the government in the spring when we adopted a temporary epidemic law. That responsibility has not been properly managed. We stretched out our hand. We gave the government some options. We should have thought, for we ended up with a powerful, self-willed government that has endured the Folketing at best in a stretched arm; a government that through its actions has weakened confidence in political Denmark, and it comes, no matter how we turn and turn it, to draw a long line. Therefore, let me repeat: the Left wants a rapid investigation commission on all of this. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140831	Thank you. There are two brief comments, and I will allow them. Sir. Jens Rohde has used a not small percentage of the short remarks that are, but first it is Mr Rohde. Jens Rohde... okay! Then we'll thank you for that, and then it'll be Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140845	Now it was just 'cause mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen himself said that special attention should be paid to what was going on in writing, and I am quite happy about that, because he now wrote Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself a written e-mail in the course of this process, in which he supported the killing of mink, namely from a health professional perspective. That course has subsequently changed, and that is why I should like to hear from Mr Vredeling. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is still willing to condone the threat to public health, which lies in the warnings from the SSI, and choose a course where you dare to take the risk and say that all mink should not be put down now, even though there is the clear recommendation from the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125140932	It's funny about this premise you're trying to build up: either you want public health, or you want government, and the two are so totally incompatible. So, it can give some of the answers to why former dictatorships are doing so well by the Olympics, and that is because people are simply bursting with health in the countries where democracy is a city in... there. Listen, there is no difference between popular government and public health, and in the Left we are at least as concerned about public health as you are in the Enhedslisten, in the government or anywhere else. I think it's obnoxious with this insinuating that there are parties in here who don't care about public health. There isn't. What we allow ourselves to say is simply: could we just have some popular government along the way? Couldn't that be a good idea? We are able to meet in here and make quick decisions when we send people to war, and I say that is serious. So is this. Then we also owe it to each other to take it seriously and to take the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141030	There's one more question for Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141039	The false premise is one, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is building up, because I fully agree that there is room for both popular government and public health. The question simply arises as to what the Left's assessment is in relation to the very specific risk of spread of infection that we see when we know that there is a reservoir of mink in Denmark, because we can make that decision. That is what some parties have also said that we are willing to do in order to reduce the spread of infection. The Left will not do so, and that is why my question to Mr McMillan-Scott. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is: why is one not willing to do so? Why is it that we are not prepared to reduce the risk of spreading infection because we are receiving specific warnings from the health authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141122	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141123	Forgive me, it is simply a strawman to say: why is it that the Left is not prepared to reduce the risk of spread of infection? It's even an obscene strawman. Of course we are. And you had the law to kill every sick mink in this country. They had the law to kill every mink within a 7 miles radius. You just didn't have the law to kill the healthy mink, and there's what we're saying: can we breathe, turn the slope and then find out if it's appropriate before we kill these people's livelihoods before we kill a profession before we irretrievably wipe out a proud profession in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141201	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am simply judging, and I apologize to Mr. Carl Valentin, that there will be no more brief remarks. We're not gonna make it. Six rapporteurs and two ministers remain. So we say thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and then it is Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141218	If you find it difficult to understand how the lightning of an entire profession is experienced for the people who are left without what they felt just a month ago that they were born to, then you can also see Lotte Svendsen's film from 1999 • Bornholm's voice. It is about the consequences of political intervention in the Bornholm fishing industry in 1981: the human consequences, the personal trauma, the dissolution and the disappearance of a culture. That was when the quotas removed the economic foundations of the fishermen and the scrapping aid subsequently took dignity and identity out of them. It was a defining epoch for an island people's encounter with new times when a fog lay over the island and dissolved families and a culture and pride of being both something and someone. I was watching the film last night, and I tried to put myself in the place of all the people who are now going through the same thing that the main characters of reality did in the 1980s. The evil truth is that you can't even understand it at all. Therefore, at least these people can be spared reading and hearing that their tears are turned into gold, that they have dollar signs in their eyes, and that they have just been waiting for years for state scrapping aid. This arrogant story from people who have theirs on the dry is not right. That is simply not right. That's not what this is all about. Understand that. It's about a culture and about the right to be someone and not just anything. One should be careful to say that there is a time before and a time after this when one is standing in the middle of it, but I can't help thinking about the timeline in Salman Rushdies • The Golden House from 2017, Tom Wolfes • The Fire of Vanity about the 1980s and Francis Scott Fitzgerald's Classic • The Great Gatsby from 1925. It is all great seat depictions that capture a time and show how we are affected by the development and the events we are facing in the middle of. Who writes the next seat picture in Denmark and starts it or ends it here? Who writes the voice of North Jutland? If a bridge is to be built between the two depictions, before and after, it requires that we find a common cultural understanding of what we stand in our hands, because it is absolutely essential for us to come to an agreement and whether we can help people with dignity on both sides of the table. I call for us to take a self-critical look in the mirror of culture, because without that reflection we will not be able to bring together country and city, right and left, government and opposition. The division that we are seeing now is escalating and the false contradictions that are being created in both government and opposition in the perception are precisely the substance from which the Yellow West in France has been created. If that is what we want in the streets, then you just have to create a contradiction between public health and public governance on the one hand and the beauty of the people and the responsibility and duty of the government to show due care in an exceptionally difficult time on the other. We, as Parliament, must uncover and control the government in office at all times. That is our task in a parliamentary democracy, that is clear, and we are prepared to do so without reservation. But I will always go up against the centrifugal force that right now means that we are all crying out reviling from every corner of our world, where we only have a look at our own and cannot or will not overcome each other's differences, because that centrifugal force makes it impossible to find useful answers to what we are in the middle of and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141630	Thank you. Jens Rohde I should like to read a proposal for adoption, if I may). Yeah, I'll let you do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141634	Thank you. This proposal for adoption reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Parliament criticises the lack of legal basis for the killing of all minks in Denmark and notes that there is a need for a thorough examination of the whole process up to and after the decision. The Folketing shall set up a committee of inquiry and a parliamentary inquiry. The government should be available for all information. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141711	I assume that it is a proposal for adoption by the Radicals (Jens Rohde Yes, it is from the Radical Left). This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125141723	Thank you. I must be honest and say that I have been a little nervous about this debate because the situation is so serious, but also because the Folketing is so divided, more than it has ever been during the pandemic. And I fear that if we do not meet each other, the division will also take place in the people. At the same time, I also fear that this debate could become a theatre play for the press, instead of the real and important discussions that we should have, about democracy, about pandemics, about crisis situations and, above all, about the enormous threat it was to our society that a zoonotic infection reservoir was created in our mink production, which has actually exacerbated the pressure of infection locally and where there was a real potential risk that future vaccines would not work. I'm nervous because our country can't stand division now. Can it hold up a difference of opinion? Yeah. Can it hold up for discussion? Yeah. For a heated political debate? Yeah, that too. However, we talk our way into a corner and divide our Parliament and our society, we lose the confidence and common understanding that is so crucial in a time of crisis. We must not let that happen. For the Socialist People's Party there are two crucial points that are important to establish today, 1) that the spread of infection in mink production was deeply serious and the decision to knock down all mink in Denmark was right, and 2) that the government did not have the legal basis for the decision it made is deeply serious and requires that the process be thoroughly examined. Let me start with the spread of infection. In these days when it is all about the process, one can easily forget how serious a situation it was actually we were in. Millions of minks were infected, and for a period half of the infected people in North Jutland were infected with a mink variant. The SSI stated quite clearly that the virus could mutate in a way that could have an impact on the efficacy of future vaccines. It was potential global consequences it could have. And although it was obviously not certain that things would go so wrong, any responsible politician must act in such a situation. Anything else I think will be a failure of dimensions. I also hope that we have learnt a little from this one day after the storm has settled, on zoonoses and on the threat to public health that could be caused by the spread of diseases in intensive animal production. Let me now turn to the question of the legal basis. I believe that the Danish people are entitled to an impartial investigation into this process, because it has been very chaotic and it is not worthy of a popular government. I think that we are once again in a situation that clearly reveals the need for a parliamentary instrument which is somewhere between a lawyer's examination, as one side of the House calls for, and a proper Commission investigation, which the other side of the Chamber calls for a new method of parliamentary scrutiny of serious cases. I hope that we can reach agreement on the drafting of such a tool, so that we can have a tool that can be modelled according to the case to be investigated, so that we do not have to be stranded in the future in the same discussion about which of the two excessively rigid forms of investigation we need. Thank you for the floor. A proposal for adoption has been read out on behalf of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125142119	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125142131	Thank you for that, President. We are currently in the midst of an epidemic that is both serious and dangerous. The Corona shuts down economies, brings society to its knees, it goes beyond vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and it costs lives all over the world. It has developed unpredictablely, and it has tested our trust and our cohesion. Here in Denmark, the operation is so far a relative success. We have done better than most, and we have not had to shut down as much as many countries around us. We have done so because we have acted decisively and safely, because most of the way we have followed a sensible precautionary approach. We've put public health at the forefront. We have chosen to be on the safe side and have protected our society from the infection. In the Enhedslisten we agree with the government in that precautionary strategy. Everyone in society has benefited from the fact that we have not ended up in the midst of a catastrophic development of infection and hard-core social decline, as we have seen in countries such as Austria and Spain. For the weakest in society in particular, this has meant that our society has been a safer place to be during the corona epidemic. But we do well for another reason. The reason is that there is great confidence in our authorities, our disease management and our democracy. We all have a responsibility for that. The government has a great responsibility because it has acted without a legal basis when it instructed mink farmers to put their mink to death and has thrown us into a crisis of confidence. The bourgeois opposition has a responsibility because, with their right of distrust and their lost focus on the health crisis, they have, in my view, completely lost the ground link. But we need to move on now. In the Enhedslisten, we are concerned that we protect our trust and democracy just as carefully as we do about our health. I am glad every day that it is not the right wing who has had the power to bring us through this crisis. I think it would have meant a much more dangerous road for Denmark. This can only be seen when you look at the statements they have made. The right-wing agenda has been marked by hesitation, by slingshots and by criticism of the precautionary strategy that has protected us. At the same time, I must also say that, to put it mildly, I am not impressed by the government's mink management. In particular, I believe that the Minister for Food has not taken the coronate rush seriously enough, early enough, and that he has not acted in time. It has also had consequences, including for the former Minister for Food. In the Enhedslisten, we treat red and blue ministers alike in this kind of case. That is also why we took the consequence in relation to the former Minister for Food. And we support the right, with which we otherwise disagree on many things, that we must, of course, have an independent investigation. We need to get everything out of sight, and we are working hard for that too. But mink is too dangerous during a pandemic like corona. This was emphasized by the health authorities, and no sober experts seem to question it. That is why I am also pleased that there is a responsible majority behind killing the Danish mink in order to safeguard our health. It is simply the only right choice for safe corona management. And that is why we have supported in the Enhedslisten to provide a legal basis for the necessary killing of all minks in Denmark. That is why we insist on having an independent investigation into the process, preferably with new parliamentary investigative tools. That is why we hold ministers accountable when they fail to act on concrete, conscious knowledge. And that is why, for the sake of vulnerable and vulnerable groups and our common healthcare, we will continue to support a precautionary strategy. For we must protect both our common health and our common democracy and rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125142535	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125142544	It went right in my belly the night the Prime Minister had told me that all the mink had to be put to death. Six thousand people have ruined their future to which they can never return. I was raised on a small farm where agriculture was our whole livelihood. I could feel and I can still feel that it affects me, because I've thought about how it must have been for my parents, if they should have told me when I was a child, that our livelihood was gone? That was the message hundreds of families had to give their children on November 4. Perhaps the government's decision was necessary. We do not even know that for sure, but we know that the resolution was illegal and we know that there is no contradiction at all between observing the law and fighting for public health. Nevertheless, our clear view is that the Prime Minister broke the Constitution when she made one of the most far-reaching decisions in recent Danish history. What the explanation for that is, one can guess. Did you panic? Is it perfect because you're used to being able to do what you want or what? We still have to look into this. Despite ministerial departures, complaints and a statement, anyone with even the slightest insight into this matter will be able to ask many questions. What did the government know and when? Who did what, and what was said, not written? Because the statement only tells us what was in some papers. It contains virtually nothing about what has been talked about at the meetings. For example, the statement states that the government knew it was illegal to close all mink growing in Denmark, but at the same time the government claims that it did not know that ordering healthy mink was illegal. But these two things are connected. How can one say yes to destroying all products in a business without believing that the business will close? Nor can you burn all the cars at a car dealership and then say that he cannot buy new cars and then say that you have not closed the store. For me, it is difficult to understand anything other than that the Prime Minister must, but if we accept the premise that the Prime Minister did not know she was breaking the law, then there is something else that puzzles me. Then why did the Prime Minister only send an e-mail to the Speaker of the Danish Parliament asking to make it illegal? Why didn't they stop the illegal order? At the same time, serious doubts are being raised about the basis for all the minks to be killed. The Government and the Prime Minister have repeatedly said that, based on a risk assessment by the Statens Serum Institut, there was no other option than to knock down all mink in Denmark, including the breeders, who are the core of the mink industry. Kåre Mølbak of the Statens Serum Institut says that the risk assessment does not relate at all to whether there is a great risk in preserving the breeding animals. You can't use our risk assessment to conclude whether there's a high risk of allowing the breeding animals to survive. Yet it was the government's decision that every mink should be killed. Actually, I find that hard to understand. I also find it difficult to understand that we are ending up in a situation where police and defence are pushing minkmen to kill healthy mink without the legal basis being in place. Three things remain for me: firstly, we owe it to the mink farmers, the Danes and our democracy to find out exactly what has happened. This is best done by means of a Commission study. And why some people don't think everything has to be done, I'm still a riddle. Secondly, we owe mink farmers compensation, fair and fair compensation, not overpayment and not underpayment, but compensation that is in line with the situation they face. Thirdly, we owe it to each other to fight the corona on an informed and professional basis. In very large decisions, haste is a burden and that is why we wanted a second opinion, and it would still have been the right thing to do in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125142957	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125143010	At his press conference on 4 November, the Prime Minister issued an illegal order to kill all Danish minks. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen's illegal order has had very serious consequences: thousands of Danes have lost their livelihoods, an entire profession is closed, export earnings for billions have disappeared, and the Danish taxpayers who go to work every day can look forward to a bill of between 10 and 20 billion. kr., which is quite well deserved to be paid in compensation to those who have suffered losses due to the Prime Minister's willful and illegal order. The human cost of the Prime Minister's abuse of private property cannot be accounted for by money. How do you measure the loss of a life's work, the loss of a way of life in which knowledge and activity pass on to future generations? How do you make up for money, that your freedom to live, build, produce and get bread on the table for yourself and your family is taken from you? You can't make that up to money. It is life, it is the lives of other people, which the Prime Minister, with a stroke of pen and completely contrary to law and law, has destroyed. It must and must have consequences. Trust in the people's rule must be restored, the government must resign and issue elections. The Danes must be allowed to speak. The Danes must have their freedom back. By law land must be built! Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen continues to tear down the people's rule. For even when the whole country knew on Sunday 8 November that the closure of the mink industry had been ordered to take place illegally, the Prime Minister continued to pause and continue to demand the death of all mink. On direct television, on Thursday 12 November, the Prime Minister insists to a minkkeeper that he should put all his breeding animals to death. Police and military are being sent out on an illegal mission and are threatening reluctant mink farmers that the authorities will shamefully penetrate their property and knock down the healthy mink if the mink farmers do not do it themselves. It is an act of abuse of power, it is an act of contempt for the law, it is destructive to the rule of the people. The government must resign, and since Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen does not do so voluntarily, the Danish Parliament must step in and force the Prime Minister to do so. Therefore, I would like to read out New Citizens' proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses distrust of the government. The government has broken the law. The government continues to break the law after it has become publicly known. The government, with its lawbreaking, is breaking down confidence in the people's rule. Parliament therefore instructs the Prime Minister to issue parliamentary elections and the government to resign. Trust in the rule of the people must be restored. • V 17) There are no system errors. It is the Prime Minister who has failed his responsibility and broken the law. The Prime Minister must resign, and confidence in the people's rule must be restored. In addition, it must be said that in New Citizens we naturally support the second proposal for adoption which has been read out today and which instructs the government, in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, to draw up a mandate for a rapidly working committee of inquiry for the whole of this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125143402	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. And then it's the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125143417	It's hard to exaggerate what a scandal this is. It is a scandal to us as a community for the rule of law, when mink growers have had absolutely no legal certainty at all, it is a scandal to our people's government and our democracy for quite obvious reasons, and it is a scandal because there is much evidence that the decision to kill all minks in Denmark was perhaps a hasty reaction and a sign of poor judgment. Poor judgment and poor exercise of power are usually protected against by citizens in a community governed by the rule of law and the rule of the people. For here no government or Head of Government can suddenly decide to put an end to an entire profession without having a legal basis in place, without having involved the Folketing, yes, without having verified and challenged its decision-making basis. And in a rule of law it will always be the case that we have to ask ourselves: is this the proportional solution we have found, or can it be solved in a less violent and less destructive way? With the minkskandalen, one of the most far-reaching decisions in recent Danish political history has been made without a legal basis, without the involvement of the people's government, and since the Prime Minister discovers that the decision is illegal, yes, the Prime Minister is firmly committed to his decision and the illegal killing of the profession continues unswervingly. And the Prime Minister, yes, she refuses to answer questions about why the Prime Minister does not stop the illegal order. It is simply not worthy of a democracy, let alone our democracy. And the minkkeepers have been completely defenceless and powerless. They have had no legal certainty whatsoever, they have had no opportunity to be heard, to object, their life's work has been smashed with a fingertips at a press conference. So it is not worthy of a legal society. This whole process also shows why it is dangerous to concentrate so much power on so few people, especially if those people show poor judgment, because then it will have enormous consequences. And the question remains as to whether the decision to put an end to all minks was necessary; whether it was an expression of the proportional, balanced decision. For first we should believe that it was about a dangerous cluster-5-mutation that could make Denmark a new Wuhan. But in the second the scientific basis was published, virtually all the experts shot down that explanatory statement. They said that you shouldn't worry about cluster-5, even Kåre Mølbak was out saying that cluster-5 was mostly something that we politicians cared about. It remains to be seen whether it is even necessary to eliminate all minks in relation to the general risk. And here the experts are more divided. There are a number of experts who say that yes, it is a good idea to put down all mink, we must be on the safe side. Others think it's an overreaction. So it is ultimately a political issue, a political assessment, what the right and proportional decision is. Is it the most far-reaching of all kinds of decisions, that is to say, to put down every mink in a few days? I think the answer is self-evident, and I think it is extremely sad that we never had the opportunity for a less intrusive solution, a less violent solution, for example to allow healthy breeding animals to survive. It should be possible to have sought that opportunity in a people's government, in a society governed by the rule of law. Right now we are paying the full price for concentrating so much power on hands. It doesn't just cost the Treasury billions. It has cost life and quality of life, it has cost citizens legal certainty, it has cost our democracy, and the government must and must be accountable for this. Finally, I would just like to say that we can also support the desire of new citizens for a vote of censure on the government. But since there is no near majority in favour of it, we have agreed with what the other bourgeois people have written. But I would just like to say for the record that, of course, we also think that the government should resign. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125143832	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are through the rapporteur's line, and that is why I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125143852	Thank you for a good debate. I think there are a few really interesting points of impact. First of all, I can hear a completely profound sympathy with the country's mink growers from all over the Danish Parliament, and it is good that we can find out also in a heated political discussion to stand together and show the sympathy, the empathy, the care that needs to be given to a profession that is in a really, really difficult situation; not only the mink growers, but also their families. The second thing that remains is that there is, in fact, no broad support for the necessary health efforts. And it is good that it has come for one day, because it has been difficult to get an answer to that question. However, a number of party leaders are now on the goal that, despite the fact that there is a risk assessment of the nature of the SSI that does, you do not support the recommendation of the health authorities, and thus you do not back down the minks. It is public education, because it is an important knowledge for the Danes to get. The third and here I am, I must be honest to say, something less positive after today is an almost complete absence of Danes' health in this discussion. We have 600,000 Danes directly in the risk group as far as covid-19 is concerned; people who, because of age, due to other diseases, can't get covid-19. You're almost absent from this discussion. I am truly surprised to hear that. I am actually genuinely affected by it, because it is a dangerous disease. It is a really, really dangerous disease that has taken many people's lives. And that is why I am surprised that the people and their relatives, and indeed the health workers who stand and fight every day, are not filling more in a debate than is the case today. That was my position. You can have another one. This is my position. And why do I start here? I do because we need to get all of Denmark through this crisis. We have to go through this crisis as an entire country. As far as public health is concerned, we must do so in terms of the economy and jobs. And it is we here in the Folketing, the 179 of us, who bear that responsibility more than anyone else. We have been chosen to look after our little fantastic country at this very time of history, when we have been hit by a global pandemic. None of us here in the Folketing wanted to be in this situation. None of us had imagined that it would be on our watch to impose a ban on assembly, a ban on muzzles, to ask people to see as few people as possible, to kill millions of minks; none of us has entered politics for this reason, but it is we who are responsible. When mistakes are made and mistakes have been made... they must be regretted. You have to be honest about them, you have to put it forward, and of course you have to be examined too, of course you have to. That goes without saying. And I have very, very much respect for the fact that many Members of Parliament take on a great responsibility to always keep an eye on the government in office at all times. I really think that what has made the most of today's debate, in addition to the fact that I think that the health profession has not filled enough, is the description given by Mr Beazley. Jens Rohde, compared to what it means to a group of people when they lose their identity when you get it taken away because of a global pandemic. Therefore, just in conclusion: I still have all my sympathy for the mink growers who have had their life's work ruined, and I hope that, after this debate, the Folketing can gather together on a broad agreement, in which we will have them compensated in a proper and real way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144312	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are a number of brief comments and for this question to be settled within the time frame when we are not all; I might as well reveal that. But I will give the rapporteurs priority first, and then we will see how far we are going, so that there will also be a short time for the rapporteur of the questioners to round in. The first is sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144334	Thank you. I will refrain from commenting on the submissive, unworthy and indecent attack by the Prime Minister, because I know that was what I was supposed to comment on, so that the Prime Minister can avoid the question I am asking now, to which I would like an answer. The government's own statement shows on page 9 that the government's coordination committee, in other words, where the Prime Minister sits at the end of the table, discussed a so-called hibernation model, that is, a model where mink is killed outside the zones, but the breeding animals are preserved, and here it appears, and I quote: "There is no legal basis for dealing with such a scenario in the current legislation,...'. Well, that's where I'm wondering a little bit. When there was no legal basis, law home, to beat some all
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144437	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144438	Neither I nor anyone else has come into error, but of course we are laying the foundations for the decision-making procedure for the decisions taken by the government that there is a legal basis for making those decisions. Normally, if you make a decision that, for example, is not well founded with regard to EU law or State aid rules or other matters, it is explicit in the case. Then I would like to arrest one thing in the question: I am not writing other politicians in all manner of words, and I could not dream of that, I am not doing so in this Chamber, I am not making it a demonstration, I am not doing it elsewhere. In fact, I appeal to the contrary. I appeal to us to have a proper political discussion with each other, that there is room for disagreement, that when a government makes mistakes it recognises and recognises it, but that we also remain on the task that has been given us, because the task is to get Denmark through this crisis. The task right now is to solve a current situation around the mink growers, but it is also persistent to keep saving as many lives as possible and to ensure that as few Danes as possible are infected.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144549	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144550	That was a fine and touching speech which does not answer at all what I am asking. The Prime Minister is made aware of: Dear Prime Minister, there is no legal basis for killing part of the healthy mink. Now that the Prime Minister and it can be documented, it is clear from the government's own statement that it is being made known, how on earth can the Prime Minister stand and say: Well, but they didn't say that we shouldn't kill them all? How can you not get there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144628	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144629	I think it is very clear in the statement and is reproduced from the platform here today that we are not aware of, I am not aware, that there is no legal basis for making the decision. And I just ask again: what would be the motive for a reverse situation, namely that we should have known that there was no legal basis and then tried to hide it? We could figure out that it would come for one day, in any case, if that was the situation we wanted to put ourselves in. If we had been informed that there was no legal basis, we would have said so, and we would have asked Parliament for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144707	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144708	It can't be an answer to how it can be that there is a piece of paper for a meeting that the Prime Minister has lot and part of, which says that if you have to knock down a part of the minks, it requires a new legal home. The annex states: "There is no legal basis for dealing with such a scenario in the current legislation, so a legal basis for this will have to be provided very quickly. ▪ This is evident from the statement. Well, it gives this picture that everyone around the Prime Minister knows that there is a problem with the law home ministry at the ministry, employee at the employee and the only person who doesn't know anything is the Prime Minister, who is otherwise in charge of the whole handling of this case. And since you decide to kill the minks, it will be the national operational staff who will be responsible for it with police and military, etc., and then you have around the Prime Minister a knowledge that putting all this into practice is based on an illegal basis. Can the Prime Minister not see why the rest of us think it looks a little mysterious and why there is a need for an in-depth study, looking not only at papers but also at the possibility of talking to the people it concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144811	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144812	But that is not true again, what is being said. It is not the case that the ministers who attend the meeting of the government's coordination committee are aware that there is no legal basis for the decision taken. That is not correct. Nor is it true that the ministers who attend the press conference are aware of the lack of a legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144837	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144840	Does this mean that when you have a meeting of the government's coordination committee on such a matter as this one here and there, as the statement now shows, there is an annex stating that there is no legal basis, neither officials are telling it nor ministers have read that annex?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144854	If you listen to the question here, you have to leave it in the belief that it is black and white in the annex, that there is no legal basis for making the decision we made, and that is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144903	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144906	I will just have to go on with that, because now the Prime Minister is avoiding this statement, I have to understand. For it says black and white: Model 1 hibernation. And then it comes down to the fact that the question of the legal basis for killing was not raised at the meeting, but the question of the legal basis for the temporary or permanent closure of the profession and compensation in this respect. A permanent closure of the profession how can one discuss it if it has nothing to do with the legal basis? Well, I just don't understand. This must have been done unless what is stated in the statement is wrong. Of course, it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144949	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125144950	But there is no question that the government has made a decision to shut down the mink industry in Denmark. We have not made a decision on that. That is not the decision that has been made. And we keep coming back to the same discussion. There's politics, and there's law. The government has not made a decision to close the mink business. The government has made a decision to put the minks down. These are two different decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145018	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145019	If all the mink has been killed, will the Prime Minister seriously claim that it can be said that there is still a mink business in Denmark? If all the mink has been killed, then there is no profession. It's dead and gone. How can you find some legal hook to hang it on? The reality is that these people were told: it's all dead and gone. It has been discussed here: what should be done about permanent closure? A permanent closure is a closure. That was one thing. And we haven't discussed the tempo bonus today. It is, of course, a new illegality which is just continuing and which the Prime Minister is being reminded of on 13 November by Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Jarlov, who writes to the Prime Minister's Office, and not until 18 November will it be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145103	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145104	Now, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, like myself, former Minister of Justice, and when law is asked, you also have to answer in law. And that's not the decision of the government. Having said that, the government has not at any time, not at any time, said that just with a fingertips as I think it is being suggested then will be able to start a mink production a la the one we have been known for in Denmark, from one day to the next. Everyone knows this because the mink production for which Denmark is known, and which has also been a very, very significant contribution to the Danish economy, is a very, very special mink production. But when you ask legally, we also have to answer legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145142	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145144	Thank you. Excuse me, but you have to be a politician or have been in politics for many years to be able to accept the belly that is coming today. Well, frankly, it doesn't work in all directions. At the press conference on 4 November, the Prime Minister says that all mink must be put to death. The FDA, the army and the police are set in motion... operation minkaflivning calls the commander of the army. Today, the PM says it wasn't an order. If it's true that it wasn't an order, then it means that the FDA, the police and the army on their own initiative and without a legal home started operating mink killing. Then, of course, those responsible must be punished, but instead the Prime Minister praises the authorities for their handling and for a good job, and everyone can see that it is not connected. That is not the truth we are told today. This is and was an order from the Prime Minister, which was given on 4 November to the FDA, to the army and to the police, and it is the Prime Minister who is responsible in his hands. Does the Prime Minister think it's okay to lie to save your own skin?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145253	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145255	I do not need to discuss it in this way, and I do not want to call for us to do so in the Folketing. Furthermore, I would also like to appeal to the fact that, despite the fact that mistakes have been made and that, moreover, the government has acknowledged this and that, in the case of some parties, there is still a great deal of disagreement with the government's handling of the Covid-19, including the Minkskan Valley, do not at the same time have any confidence in our authorities. And I would like to appeal to this in depth. Whether it is the defence, whether it is the preparedness, whether it is the police or whether it is other authorities, I have never been in a situation where the doubts that have been raised now have been raised. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145357	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145358	Excuse me, but the Prime Minister simply does not answer the questions that are being asked. The simple question is that when you come up with explanations that are contrary to what the Minister of Food did before the Minister of Food had to resign... so when the Prime Minister says today that it was not an order, but that at the press conference you said that we are now starting the NOST and the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority to draw up this emergency plan, both can't be right. One of the two must be false, untrue, a lie... which part is untrue?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145433	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145434	It is clear that there was no legal basis for the government's decision. That's a problem. That's acknowledged. I also think it is clear that, at the time when the authorities responsible are aware that there is no legal basis, there is no communication to mink farmers there. That is also a problem. It's a mistake. These are regrettable mistakes and, of course, they are mistakes that are growing in size because we are dealing with people's lives and their livelihoods. But basically I do not accept the premise, and I would like to appeal once again: despite political disagreements, I believe that the authorities in Denmark should be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145519	Thank you. When I and many others have asked the Prime Minister why the Prime Minister did not withdraw the illegal order as soon as she found out it was illegal, the answer is: it is because it is the responsibility of my ministers. We can then see that the ministers responsible for withdrawing the illegal order did not withdraw it, at least not effectively. The National Operating Stab was still illegally killing the minks. Does the Prime Minister believe that the various ministers responsible have failed to take their responsibility for withdrawing the illegal order, now that the Prime Minister says it is
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145551	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145552	I think it is clear that mistakes have been made in this matter. And I would say that we may be unlike what is the tradition, at least in some governments, of course have no problem recognising that the error has been made, nor of regretting it. I have great respect for the fact that people want to investigate it, but I have confidence. I have confidence in the government's ministers, and I also have confidence in the country's authorities. And then there is work going on now in the Folketing in relation to a further investigation, and I have very much respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145626	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145627	So we have to understand that it is a mistake on the part of the Minister of Justice and other ministers that they did not withdraw the illegal order effectively, but that it is not a mistake on the part of the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister did not remind his ministers that they did not withdraw the illegal order. I'm just gonna have to spell it out. Because that's fair enough. It is actually close to being a direct answer, and I am a little amazed at that, but that is what the Prime Minister is saying: yes, it was a mistake that the illegal order was not withdrawn from the responsible ministers, but that it was not a mistake with the Prime Minister it was only a mistake with the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145703	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145704	I think that in this matter, like what we have heard in the course of today's debate, the wrong terms are being placed in terms of how the division of tasks is in a government. We can then have different views on this, but we cannot stand by and say that the way in which the Council of Ministers operates in Denmark and, incidentally, has been doing so for many years, we should have put an end to this matter. I know that the authorities involved in this have regretted the mistakes that have been made, and so has the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145734	Then that is the last brief remark. It's from Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145737	I would like to ask you about the material of the government's coordination committee, that is, the statement that has been sent to the Danish Parliament. On pages 8 and 9, it appears that the government's coordination committee included two models: a hibernation model and a closure of the industry. Today, of course, we know that the government decided on a completely third model. Therefore, I just want to know if there were no papers on this illegal model in the material for the government's coordination committee, or if it was something that the government just came up with at its meeting of the coordination committee. And if there are papers on the model that the government decided, then I would like to ask the Prime Minister why the statement is clinically cleared of that model and what it said about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145827	I think that the Left continues to signal that the government has wanted to commit an illegal act, and that is simply not correct. After all, I have been in this Parliament for almost 20 years, and I do not really recall that we are questioning each other the truth of what we are saying. We may disagree on things, but questioning the correctness of what we say is something new. I believe that the risk assessment from the SSI was clear in its speech. It would be too risky to continue with mink production in Denmark. Therefore, for the sake of public health and also for the sake of Denmark's reputation and reputation and reputation, and hence for the sake of many other Danes' jobs, it was the right decision to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145931	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125145932	From someone who is also going to sound older than I feel I have been a member of the Folketing for 13 years: No one says that the government has wanted to issue an illegal order. We note that the government has issued an illegal order, that is a fact. But I would like to repeat my question, because the Prime Minister is not replying to it notoriously. The report from the government shows in the material for the coordination committee that there were two models: a dormant model and a model for the closure of the industry. Today we know that the government decided on a completely third model. Why has the statement been clinically cleared of what was said about the model, the third model that the government decided, or was it a model that the government just sat on when the decision was made in the coordination committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150019	However, when it is judged legally that the government and I ourselves have not broken the constitution, it is of no use just to keep repeating it. An untruth is not true because it is repeated many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150034	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and now there is just time for a brief rounding by the rapporteur for the proposers. Thank you to the Prime Minister and welcome to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150047	I would, of course, like to thank the entire Danish Parliament, in other words all the parties of the Danish Parliament, for having taken an active part in this debate, and also thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice for having made themselves available. On the other hand, I must say quite frankly that I cannot thank the Prime Minister for the last thing she did up here from the platform a little while ago. I have to admit that the words that come to mind when I see the Prime Minister up here a moment ago are embarrassing, and that is unworthy. To start saying, when we have a debate, a question debate here, about violations of the law, about having killed a mink business in Denmark on an illegal basis, we have a question debate on this and try to make it about the fact that the Folketing does not take public health seriously, does not do what it takes to combat corona, I simply do not think it is fair. Since 11 March of this Parliament, we have been performing one after the other, emergency meetings at short notice, we do not get the information we want, but we have tried to keep up with it. We have accepted that the government has gone very far in the way it has handled this, even though the Folketing has not been consulted, we have made legislation and given the government a mandate to do unseen things when it is not wartime, and then we, as Parliament, have to hear from the Prime Minister of the country that this Parliament does not care about public health and the fight against corona, because we want to have a question debate on how the government has got so wrong with the mink industry as it is. I just have to say that I think it was cross-border to listen to, and I would ask the Prime Minister to take this into account when he goes around the country, I can understand that, among other things. is to Nordjylland, in the coming days to try to talk to citizens, so just take with you how to treat the Folketing during such a debate as this one. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150237	Thank you. We're not gonna make it through this request anymore. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place, as I have said, on Thursday 26 November 2020. Then we will have to start Question Time, and that also means that while I am just reading out a few messages, we must have emptied the Chamber of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150308	Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 110 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and the Aliens Act. Bill No. L 111 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives, etc.) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Church Minister (Joy Mogensen): Bill No. L 112 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Trials in the National Church. Minister for Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill No. L 113 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150410	I'll tell you what Torsten Gejl did in No. Question No 6 (S 394) to the Minister for Taxation is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that Peder Hvelplund under No. 8 questions put to the Minister for Health and the Elderly (S 44) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. We need a little quiet in the Chamber, because now we have to start Question Time. So I would ask the rapporteurs who should not be part of Question Time to resign. Let's give it a chance. I think we can get to grips with the first question to the Foreign Minister, and that has been asked by Mr Van der Klaauw. Sikandar Siddique (UFG).
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150457	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150500	Thank you and thank the Minister for coming here and giving us the opportunity to ask questions. What is the Foreign Minister's view that in August 2019 the Government of India chose to remove Article 370 and Article 35a of the Indian Constitution, which meant that Jammu and Kashmir can no longer maintain their special status in terms of autonomy and self-determination?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150535	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the question. The Indian Government decided last August to repeal section 370 of the country's constitution, thereby abolishing the distinct autonomy enjoyed by Jammu and Kashmir until then. For the GOI, the aim was to create economic and social development in the region. First of all, I see this issue as an internal Indian constitutional issue about how India, according to its own legislation, classifys the area. This also means that the government, like the EU, does not choose sides in the dispute as to whether the changes are legal or reasonable in themselves. The government's concern about the situation in the area is therefore not an expression of Danish opinion on the constitutional amendment, which we see as an internal matter, as I said, and I have explained in more detail in the answer to question S 407 the dialogue that Denmark and the European Union have with India on developments in Kashmir, and I am sure that the questioner also knows the answer to question 407. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150643	This is about Indian occupation of Jammu and Kashmir. Many international NGOs, Amnesty and other human rights organisations have just been out criticising this constitutional amendment, the amendment of the constitution. One thing is that in practice we occupy Kashmir and Jammu, but another is that we do not allow people to vote for the referendum on which there are several UN resolutions, that is to say that Jammu and the people of Kashmir have the right to a referendum so that they can choose their own future. Add to that that we are actually talking about that very many people are currently living in an open prison, in a prison where they are cut off from communication to the outside world • no Internet connection, you cannot get phone contact either to or from Kashmir. It is simply an open prison, a lockdown. That is why it is deeply mysterious for me that the Danish Government regards it as an internal matter and not a matter of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150819-2	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. It is true that the amendment of the Constitution, which is being asked, we regard it as an internal matter in relation to India. However, the human rights situation as such is something on which we regularly have a dialogue with India. It can also be said that in the follow-up to the EU-India Summit in July, work is being done here later to ensure that a human rights dialogue between the EU and India is in place. A time has been proposed here in December and we are awaiting feedback from the Indian side. So the human rights dialogue is important, but the constitutional issue is an internal Indian issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150901	The questioner? There are no further follow-up questions. Then we move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and which has also been asked by Mr Van Miert. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150904	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150913	Thank you. As a follow-up to the first question, does the Foreign Minister believe that it is appropriate for the Danish Government, in a letter to the Government of India, to unequivocally denounce India's human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir and to recommend that the Indian Government immediately abolish the closure of Jammu and Kashmir?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125150937	Thank you to the questioner. As I have previously informed of, among other things. in the Foreign Policy Name and in writing answer to § 20-questions, of course, the government follows developments in Kashmir closely. Like previous statements by both the United Nations and the European Union, we look with concern at the reports on restrictions in the Kashmir area and their importance in relation to the human rights situation. And with the recently concluded green strategic partnership with India, we have also stated that human rights are part of Denmark's dialogue with India. At the same time, we are also working closely together within the EU to maintain the focus on developments in Kashmir. The EU has a strategic partnership with India, and at the India-EU Summit on 15 July there was agreement to resume the human rights dialogue. At the summit, the EU also brought up the situation in Kashmir, which was found to be worrying. At the meeting, the EU also expressed its appreciation for the fact that such issues could actually be discussed. I am convinced that the issue of Kashmir is best addressed through dialogue bilaterally, as well as through the European Union and the United Nations, rather than writing letters, and that dialogue is, as I said, under way, and this is an important dialogue. It is also important for me to stress that, like statements by the United Nations and the European Union, the government is convinced that the conflict over Kashmir can only be resolved by bilateral political and diplomatic dialogue between two parties and by peaceful means in order to avoid escalation of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151120	I am glad that the Foreign Minister is concerned about the human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir. That's a first step. I am absolutely convinced and absolutely clear that Denmark cannot solve this very complex geopolitical conflict alone. I totally agree with that. I am also pleased that the government is using the various international forums, both the European Union and the United Nations, to put pressure together so that we can resolve this conflict. Does the Minister really not think that if we cannot resolve the conflict, we can at least say unequivocally from the Danish side that we reject the human rights violations that are taking place? And then it is a conflict that needs to be resolved and both sides must resolve it peacefully bilaterally. However, what is happening in Jammu and Kashmir, and which the Indian Government is exposing the population to, Denmark says clearly from across the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151246	Thank you, sir. Siddique. What the government is doing is addressing the issue of human rights both through the United Nations and the European Union, in other words in the EU-India relationship and, of course, also bilaterally. And, as I said, I think it is very important to emphasise that the solutions that need to be found are, of course, dialogue. It's a peaceful trail. It is to ensure that the obligations that you have are also respected. That is the approach we have to it. Like I said, we're waiting for a time. We have proposed a time in December when the European Union can initiate the human rights dialogue with India, and we think this is important. It is important that we see progress also in the area of human rights, not just in India, but wherever we act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151332	I am happy again, of course, and the Free Greens will do everything we can to promote and help and contribute if we can in any way in this Parliament help the government to address the human rights violations that are going on down there. However, it is important for me to say that over 10,000 women have been raped, 100,000 people have lost their lives, young men have disappeared and have never returned, it is an open prison, and it is the world's most militarised area. I and the Greens believe that we can no longer wait for others to take responsibility. That is why, finally, I would like to call on the Foreign Minister and the Government, both in the strategic green cooperation and in other contexts, to raise the case of Kashmir.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151422	Thank you, sir. Siddique. I can confirm that the human rights dialogue is part of the strategic cooperation we also have with India, in other words Denmark-India. It is also something that has been addressed, that is, the human rights situation as such, also at the level of senior officials, recently too, so it is an important thing for the government. We stress that solutions must be found through diplomatic action, peaceful dialogue between the parties and in a way that addresses the problems. That is very important to emphasise. We are also doing so in the European Union and in the United Nations and in the various fora where Denmark plays a role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151500	Thank you. Then there is the possibility of a final follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151503	My last follow-up question must once again be a call to the government, because it is simply important to understand that, although we do of course want the path of diplomacy to be followed, and that is what we have to do, there are only people who are raped, who are killed, who live in poor conditions and have their human rights violated. And they expect us to help them. That is why it is just a strong call for Denmark to take the lead in resolving the Kashmir conflict. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151531	As I said, we are discussing the human rights dialogue as such with India. I myself took it up with the Indian Foreign Minister in January when I visited the country for the first time as Foreign Minister. I appeal to find a peaceful dialogue between the opposing parties so that the situation can improve. That's the lead we have. Human rights violations, wherever they occur in the world, are something that we distance ourselves deeply from Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151559	Thank you. The question has been answered. And before we move on to the next question, I should like to inform you that by Mette Hjermind Dencker under No. 20 questions put to the Minister for Industry are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Then the next question to the Minister for Justice is asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup of the Danish People's Party, and he has as a co-author Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151621	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151624	Thank you. I have to read the question, and it is this: what is the Minister's position on the potential two-year sentence that the madman who killed the five-year-old girl can expect to receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151640	Thank you for the question and thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, we are again standing here because of a matter that is quite incomprehensiblely tragic. One only five-year-old girl has been killed, and again we are dealing with a perpetrator who, in a most cowardly way, fled the scene. My deepest sympathy goes to the little girl's family for the incredible loss they have suffered. I am not going to anticipate what the perpetrator will be given in specific terms, but I know that the police are currently investigating the matter in a high-pressure manner, so that hopefully the getaway driver can be held accountable as soon as possible. However, I can say that it is absolutely essential for me that the sentence imposed on a perpetrator reflects the gravity of the crime he has committed. And I do not believe that the level of punishment in cases of negligent manslaughter committed in connection with driving madness does. It is simply too low. That is why the government has just sent a legislative proposal in consultation, which calls for a significant increase in the level of penalties for, among other things. manslaughter when committed in connection with the driving of madness. The draft law specifically provides that the level of punishment for manslaughter is increased by 50 per cent in connection with driving madness. This also means that the most serious cases of negligent manslaughter, where people today want to punish with, for example, the death penalty. Three years in prison, as a starting point in the future, will have to be punished by 41⁄2 years in prison. And it is a sharpening that can be felt. Now the bill is in consultation, so it is the expectation that it will be presented in January, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151816	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125151818	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Justice for your reply. We all know it: we go with our child on a street, talk about who is the playmate tomorrow, and can it be done later in the day perhaps to make some games over the net with him or her? What are we having for dinner? What could it be? What would you like? And it's a mother and a daughter that you have to imagine walking and talking about the things that the daughter of 5 years of age gets hit and dies in connection with the violent driving of a driver of madness. I hardly think that such a case is to be carried, and I hardly think that these matters are to be borne. For it is completely innocent people who have no expectation that anything will happen to them at that time in that place, where this happens suddenly and the daughter is gone to the mother. I hope that the government will impose some appalling penalties on mad drivers driving wildly and violently, exposing other people and families to the ultimate, as has happened in this case at Frederiksberg. And I hope that the government will ensure that it is also an aggravating circumstance that the perpetrator is escaping from the site as in this case. And then I get worried when I also read experts' assessment of what punishment can be given in such a case. In fact, experts are talking about ^ and that is also why the question has been raised here that there is only a two-year sentence in the case in question. And to me that is all, far too little, and we cannot be familiar with it in the Folketing if we do not ensure that they are punished in this area higher. I hope the government will ensure that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152026	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152027	But I completely agree with the description of a daily life that is filled with small and big things... everyday things, pearls, lunches, the things that fill up and that so, like this, are being changed so that it never, ever, ever will be the same again for that family. And I fully share the wish that it should be punished and that it should be severely punished, and that, of course, is also why we have made a package against driving madness which we are now putting forward in the Folketing. And I expect the author's party to support it, certainly with demands for it to be even more. But I think we will vote green together in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152113	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152115	Now it is almost difficult to hear what the Minister is saying, because we have bongo drums out front at the Palace Square quite persistently. But what I heard was that the government is making a proposal, it is sent to a hearing, and in the Danish People's Party we think it is sensible. Then I would like to ask the government: when the Minister says that a proposal has been put forward, I understand that 50% will be added. on top of the very, very low penalties we know in this area. And there I would like to ask the government: why is it that minimum penalties are not introduced? Because we have seen time and again that the Folketing has tightened up these things, but the courts are still judging too mildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152154	After all, this is a classic discussion that we two have had occasion to have sometimes. Compared to the way in which we have to ensure that the penitentiary gets up: we can, of course, regulate on the penalty framework, and we both know that it is the lower part of the penalty framework that is being used. We can also regulate in our desire for the level of punishment and in this way ensure that the penalties for everything else get harder. Where I get worried, if we take that estimate and the opportunity to include the specific circumstances that may exist, is away from, for example, the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152239	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152243	But what if the judgement of the courts does not reflect what the Folketing wants, Minister? This summer we discussed a case from Funen, where a mad driver outside Bogense killed three people and was sentenced to three years in prison. As you know, the penalty is eight years. Now we are, as Mr. Peter Skaarup has explained, faced with a case where a drug-induced driver drives up on the sidewalk, kills a 5-year-old girl and then runs away and leaves her bleeding and then dying. It is expected to give 2 years in prison. Can the Minister of Justice try to describe a scenario that is worse than this and that is what has to be given from three years to up to 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 years? Well, according to the Justice Minister, what else does it take to get you up to eight years? Can the Minister of Justice try to explain to the Folketing in relation to what we are facing, in relation to the five-year-old girl at Frederiksberg, what should have been done more of disgusts for the sentence to reach 8 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152350	But that is precisely why we want to raise the level of penalties; it is because we think that penalties are being imposed too lightly at the moment. And when the questioner starts by asking: if the judgement of the courts does not reflect the wishes of the Folketing, what then? Yes, then, the natural way to go in my opinion is either to regulate on the penalty framework or, what we have done sometimes, and what is going to happen in this case, to regulate on the level of penalties, or, of course, to regulate on both.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152426	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152427	However, regulating at the level of penalties is only possible through minimum penalties for crimes which are so violent. Otherwise, the Minister will have to explain how he intends to do so. Because we are, I sense, in a situation where we agree that the judgements of the judges are too mild; we would like to send these vile people longer into the shadows and preferably make full use of the penal framework. And I can't imagine anything more disgusting... maybe because my imagination is limited... than what we're going to remember at Frederiksberg here in a few hours. So what exactly does the Minister intend to do to bring the judges back to reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152506	However, it may be that we can reach each other if it is just a misapprehension that this can only be done through the regulation of minimum penalties. Because experience has been gained and the rapporteur's colleagues and legal rapporteur will also be able to confirm that in their judgement the courts actually take it very seriously when we send a signal of what we think should be the level of punishment. Then the courts actually say: if it is the Folketing's view of the level of punishment, then we judge it as a starting point. Then there may be aggravating circumstances and there may be mitigating circumstances. But we do not take away the judgements of the courts. So in this way we can ensure that the courts are punished more severely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152541	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question under this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152545	However, as the Minister has said here, the government is in fact saying: we are now laying down the judgments given today by the courts and saying plus 50 per cent. On the matter we are talking about at Frederiksberg, where there is a torch parade today to commemorate the girl, the minister says: Now we are going from two years in prison, as experts say will be given in this case, to three years in prison. There we say in the Danish People's Party: Why not use the 8-year prison sentence? Why not use the penalty? That's why we've been setting up an 8-year prison sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152627	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152629	That's fair enough to ask. The questioner is so routine I think he is one of the tenth longest-standing MPs at the moment that he also knows what the answer will be, namely that I, as Minister of Justice, must be extremely reluctant to interfere in specific cases that are being dealt with in the courts, otherwise I risk pushing the boundaries between the executive and the judiciary. That is why I cannot deal with the specific issue, other than by stating that I share the dismay and outrage of the author of the question about what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152707	Thank you. Then that question has been answered. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and it is also asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152718	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152721	The question is this: what is the Minister's view that the survivors who lost three family members on Funen to an insane driver say to •Station 2• that they cannot understand the low sentence of 3 years in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152741	The questioner's co-questioner on the previous question, who fortunately is also a co-questioner on this question, took up the matter a moment ago, if I may say so. The Fyn case, like the case we talked about before, is another deeply tragic case of carnage, and I agree that 3 years of imprisonment has been too cheap for the man who has taken three family members from them in a ruthless way, I think, because it happened in circumstances where the perpetrator chose to put himself under the influence of alcohol and chose to drive 154 km/h. on a road. As we have just spoken about the previous question, it is my clear position and that of the government, backed by the bill we have submitted in consultation, that the penalty for negligent manslaughter committed in connection with driving madness is simply too low, and that is also why, as we talked about before, we are setting up to tighten up the level of punishment so that 50% is added. In addition, which I expect we will be able to deal with here in the Folketing in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152858	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125152859	Thank you, Minister. Of course, I think it is a good thing that the Minister is thinking in terms of increasing the penalties. There should be no doubt about that. That's a good thing. And that would mean, in the case I referred to here in question 4, going from three years in prison, which is the calculated penalty, and we can talk about that, because that case has been in court, and we know the content of the 41⁄2 years that the government is setting up with the 50 per cent. Upstairs. What I just want to say to the government is: After all, signatures are being collected for a citizens' proposal that tells us in the Danish Parliament that there is a great deal of attention and a great deal of dissatisfaction out there with the Danes, because you experience these crazy drivers all the time in the street and out on the roads, and what is happening is extremely dangerous, and it was dangerous that day on Funen, where you saw this crazy situation, which has given a relatively low sentence of 3 years in prison. What those who put forward the citizens' proposal are saying is: we want to be sure that the courts understand the message. And what the Minister is saying is that we want to start with what the courts are doing and then we want to put 50 per cent. Upstairs. I do not understand why the government is not taking the step fully and saying the same thing as the citizens' proposal: we are now making a minimum penalty, because we will be absolutely sure that no matter what, these crazy drivers who cause death and destruction will get a minimum sentence of 6 years in prison. And I'm gonna ask you, as sir. Morten Messerschmidt asked before: what is the case that the Minister can see, which is so much worse, that you should be given eight years of imprisonment than the two cases that the Danish People's Party has mentioned to the Minister here today? What kind of case is it supposed to be so much worse that it could be 8 years in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153109	After all, the proposal is not merely about increasing the penalties. In parallel, we are putting forward a proposal in which we say that those who are driving madness must also have their cars seized, confiscated and sold away, and sold away in a way where the proceeds of that sale fall to the treasury, and they must suffer the misery that the weapon they have used for their misdeed is then finally taken from them. I should like to return to the minimum penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153145	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153146	Yeah, and that's very good. It is also good that we in the Folketing sometimes decide that criminals should pay their fines. But they don't pay their fines. It doesn't mean much at all if a criminal gets rid of a vehicle, because you are in league with other criminals or others who do the same in terms of driving madness, and that means that you have access to another car. It is a good thing that the Minister is doing this, and we have our full support in the Danish People's Party, but the level of punishment is therefore crucial here, and there I do not think the Minister replied. Why not introduce a minimum penalty, so we are sure that the courts are judging what we have been thinking in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153227	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153228	As I heard before, the question was: why not introduce a minimum sentence of six years? I am not going to do constructions, but I am sure that in the specific case one can well think of circumstances when the courts have it for assessment ^ as one would say was kind of extenuating circumstances. That's why we have the courts. It is, of course, to say that what are the special circumstances of this case that make us have to punish even harder, or that makes us have to punish lighter. For me, the fact that we have the courts is a fundamental element of our rule of law. I believe, moreover, that we can achieve what the questioner wants by regulating the level of penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153307	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153308	What remains then, if we can do so, and if the Minister is so confident that this can happen, then the question is why nothing will happen. So now we are in a situation where the Minister has been a minister for a year and a half. Unfortunately, it is not unfamiliar that we have these debates on penalties that are being handed down to the Danish courts at a level which at least the Minister and we in the Danish People's Party agree is far too low. We then come up with some operational proposals which have not been taken out of the air; so, I believe, minimum penalties are known from the criminal code in several delicts. So it is not the case that you do not know it in Danish practice, and that would certainly solve the problem. The minister then comes back and says: Well, there are other ways. But then nothing happens. Now we are faced with a new case, an unhappy case. I think the Minister thinks so too, and of course the Minister thinks so. We're all serious. But what is the Minister's answer to those people who can then wait for the killer to be punished ridiculously low to their little daughter? Is it that the Folketing wants to do something about it? Wouldn't the survivors rather have a Parliament and a minister who had done something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153415	One must always choose how to organise one's argument. I think it is perfectly fair to say that on Friday 27 November this government can celebrate having been sitting for 1 year and 5 months. In a very short time we can celebrate being the longest-standing one-party government for 40 years, I think. There's so much to celebrate. And I think it is quite fair that the questioner says that I have now been Minister of Justice for 1 year and 5 months, so why has nothing happened? What we have done is that we have put forward proposals, discussed them thoroughly with the parties of the Folketing and will now implement them through legislation. The counter-question will of course be: Why didn't something happen in the previous very many years, when the Danish People's Party was a decisive player, and I think I can say that without making such a wrong assessment of the pieces in Danish law policy? And perhaps it is not the constructive way to go forward and point your finger and say: Why did nothing happen? But perhaps it is a matter of gathering together to deal with the problem on which we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153522	Thank you. This is a question that cannot really be answered when you do not have the floor. Morten Messerschmidt In those circumstances it would be difficult at least I can see that. But I have two rounds. ) Oh, I'm sorry. Good thing we have some questioners who know the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153535	I would very much like to reply, because in the previous circumstances, which I obviously do not know as much as the Minister for Justice, it could be that there was a more conformation of the Minister for Justice. In other words, on several occasions I have praised the Minister for Justice for taking new steps in relation to former Justice Ministers, including Justice Ministers, who were at the mercy of the Danish People's Party. That is why I would like to say that I apologise for the fact that, compared to the Minister for Justice, we are weathering morning air with previous ministers of justice. But it is not the case that because I distribute laurels to the Minister for Justice in one context, he can know for sure in other contexts. Not only the Danish People's Party is impatient, but also the sacrifices that are now, and those that unfortunately are waiting out in the future • So we are many who are impatient, Mr. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153619	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153620	Despite Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's regular friendly comments and our good cooperation, I have no doubt that the first time the apartment offered itself, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt do everything he could to ensure that there came a different Minister of Justice than me... I'm not more naive either. This should not prevent us from working very well together, and I think that the steps we can then hopefully take in common in order to ensure that we get something done about this problem, something right about this problem, we should welcome it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153654	The shift of questioning that I was just fast with before, we have now. Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153700	Thank you. I would just like to point out to the Minister, if the Minister himself does not remember, that now the Minister has been a minister for a year and a half, and there are also limits to how long it can continue to refer to what the predecessor did not get done. But we have always been impatient, I would say, and we have fought for these penalties to come up. And now we have a minister who has promised that they will come up, and we are pleased about that. However, if it were for the Danish People's Party, we were given minimum penalties, which the Socialists themselves voted for when it comes to the possession of weapons. Then why don't you go through with this? And if it were up to us, there would also be a show of non-Danish citizens involved in the car of madness on the ground. Why do the Socialists not want to be involved in this? So there are some good questions that I hope the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153747	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153748	In other words, I have been in government, I have been in opposition, the questioner has been as close to being in government as one can get without being that one can almost say a de facto government and we both know that the script says that the opposition must always say that it is too late, it is too little, it is too bad, all the arguments we have been over today. But I am also sure that the questioner deep down recognizes for himself that this is actually the most potent grip that has been taken in dealing with madness driving ever in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153822	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister of Justice and to Mr. Peter Skaarup. Then we'll change the minister. It's the tax minister who's gonna need a question from Mr. Kim. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153831	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153834	Thank you, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for pensioners and early retirement pensioners who are affected by interdependence, so that they are paid because their partner has a job, to be in a tax border country where they do not know whether they should be taxed on the income, money or value they receive from their partner?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125153905	Thank you for the question. Basically, no one should be afraid of being taxed by the ordinary allowance they receive from their partner as part of a common household. This also applies, although one may contribute more financially than the other. In the end, I also believe that co-habitants themselves can find a fair distribution of rent and financial obligations in the relationship, and the reality is that they accept the tax rules as well. It is clear that support in the form of, for example, credit transfers can reach a level where gifts are really being made, and I am not talking about apartment gifts here, for example. birthdays, but on actual income transfers. Such gifts are, as a rule, taxable income for the recipient. However, for cohabitants who have had a common residence for two years, gifts are never liable to income tax. There are gifts instead of being liable to tax on income, it says. And to the extent that the gifts seen throughout the year exceed total 67,100 kr., well, then, as you know, 15% are paid. in gift tax. In my view, pensioners and early retirement people do not live to a greater extent than others in what the questioner calls fiscal frontier countries. It is clear that gifts can be of different character, and there may be specific situations where questions may also arise, and if there is, I would just urge you to use the opportunity you have to seek guidance from the Danish Tax Administration. Call them, ask questions, and I'm sure the talented people would like to help with an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154101	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154102	The reason I ask this question is that there are many pensioners and early retirement pensioners who are not married but have lived together for less than two years. Now it's not the case that love knows the difference between whether you have a job or not. Love arises between people, including between people who work and are on retirement or early retirement. This means that when they become boyfriends, one is paid because the other is working. They're affected by what's called intercourse addiction. If, for example, I... was an early-retirer and associate with someone who works and earns more than 381,000 kroner. A year, I'm paid because my partner works. I assume that the Minister agrees that the reason why I am being paid is because I am expected to be supported by my working partner. The only problem is that single people are not allowed to transfer values to each other without paying the gift fee. No one can, when they are not married, nor me, nor the Minister. We have to pay what is called gift tax when we give each other things and values and money. In answer to a question, the Minister for Employment has stated that it may be a matter of free maintenance when the worker is dependent on the pensioner or the early retirement pensionist, even if they are not married so, as I understand it, that no gift tax should be paid if it is a matter of free maintenance. It is here that I would like to know whether the Minister can tell us when it is a matter of free entertainment. Are those liver patties you have to give each other? Or things? How about a TV? How about a trip? How about a house? What about money? Can the Minister tell me exactly what is covered by free support so that all these co-living people know whether they should be taxed by what they get from their boyfriend?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154248-2	I have read the rules here, and it is clear that if there are doubts and is that what the questioner is asking here? One might say that the cases are of course specific, but they are also very different. So if there are people and the questioner knows about matters, I would strongly urge that guidance be sought. If you want to put a further question to the Minister for Employment or myself as a tax minister, then we must help to get as close as we possibly can in an explanation of that. We'll help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154327	Does this mean that you can just get a divorce and then the mutual dependent will be abolished? Can the Minister give us examples of pensioners or early retirement pensioners being taxed by gifts they receive from their cohabiting partners and thus being taxed four times first the normal income tax, then tax, because they live with someone, then tax on cohabiting and finally gift tax? Does the Minister have examples of this? Can the Minister say when to give it up to the IRS? And does the Minister think it would be reasonable for people to have to pay taxes four times?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154358	As I read before, the rule for cohabitants is that if you have had a common residence for two years, yes, gifts are never liable to income tax. Then, as the questioner himself says, you have to pay a gift tax. If it does exceed a certain amount, that's the 67,100 kr. during the year, you pay 15%. of it. It's one, if you like, corner. If there are doubts, I think you should turn to the Danish Tax Office. I believe that the view is not that you are in a tax border country. The rules should be clear. If you have questions, I think you should address your case to the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154449	Thank you. Then there is the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154451	However, this mess with the gift fee was also a problem back in 2014, when 12,000 cash benefits recipients were imposed on interdependency. At that time you had to, among other things. because a citizen brought a lawsuit against the state, abolishing cohabiting dependency on unmarried cohabiting cash benefits recipients. So this was the same problem for cash benefits recipients as we have for pensioners and early retirement workers today. As Minister of Finance Bjarne Corydon wrote at the time: It is so in Denmark that it is more and more common to live together without being married, but it has proved difficult to manage and difficult to give the cohabitants the same rights with tax deductions. When our parties to the agreement give priority to this in the negotiations, it is a concession that we can give. Thus, for exactly the same reasons as those I have mentioned for pensioners and early retirement workers today, uniting dependency on cash benefits is being abolished. Will the Minister of Taxation say the same to early retirement and pensioners: we are abolishing interdependence because it cannot therefore be administered?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154547	Then we got to where I sensed we were going. The questioner knows quite well that is not a question on which I, as Minister for Taxation, can take a position immediately. What I can relate to is: if there are doubts for individual citizens in these matters, we have quite a lot of people who are ready to help solve those issues. If it is another question of abolishing it altogether, then that is something that the questioner can raise where we are discussing the kind of priorities which, of course, also have economic consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154620	Thank you to the Minister for Taxation, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Torsten Gejl. The next question has been removed, so we move on to the next minister to be asked questions, and that is the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154639	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154643	Thank you. The question is: why will the Minister not give the Bornholmers the possibility of green electricity with popular anchoring as early as 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154656	Let me start by saying that I, like the questioner, assume that I am very, very happy with the local commitment that is behind this project. It is, of course, fantastic and great praise for it. When I, as a minister, am unable to comply with this request, this is because there is no legal provision at this stage in the law to abolish a specific area reservation in favour of a specific set-aside scheme. This would be contrary to the purpose of the open door system, which aims, inter alia, at: is to give everyone equal access to take advantage of the wind at sea following an open door procedure. The abolition of an area reservation for the benefit of one setter would also run counter to the principle of legal certainty of equality before the law. If a reservation is lifted, it is therefore available to anyone wishing to set up wind turbines through the open door system. So the area cannot be allocated directly to the initiative group, regardless of what one might think of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154806	I welcome the Minister's praise for the initiative, because I am also quite enthusiastic. In fact, Bornholm is the most sustainable energy island in the EU. The European Commission stated this when it announced in April that Bornholm was the first winner of the EU's new Responsible Island Prize, sponsored by the Horizon EU programme. Bornholm is therefore honoured by the European Union for engaging all parts of society in providing future generations with a sustainable island and thus a green stream. The climate minister was not slow to praise Bornholm, and the climate minister said that it was very proud of the award ceremony and praised that the kind of initiatives and enthusiasm that the Bornholmers have shown we should have more of. When the Minister then clings to the area reservation, the Minister is free to let go of the area reservation after the Minister, together with the conciliation circle, has placed the state wind farm 20 km from Bornholm, so that it is in play and can be used via the open door system. When do we see the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125154912	I owe it, I think, to say that it is certainly not something that reflects badly on Bornholm, but that it was both Bornholm and Samsø who got the prize. So we are lucky to have two islands in Denmark that have done so well internationally. Of course, we are proud of that. Some of it, I think, will do that Bornholm can not only maintain the distinguished and fine position, but actually expand it, is the decision to make Bornholm an actual energy island also in the new meaning of the word, i.e. a definite jump for foreign connections with very, very large offshore wind turbine capacity associated with it. That's a slightly different story, because it's a state decision. The open door system is another type of system, so you cannot quite compare the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155000-2	No, but I will continue to do so, because when the state park to deliver what is it? This is therefore a question of having a number of people who have done a great deal of work, supported by local business, by a municipal council to make it citizen-driven. We simply get the green thought under people's skin. Shouldn't you pay tribute to something like that and let them run ahead of you? Because that is what you have to do in the rest of the world, if you want the green transition, that is to say to ensure that it is citizens driven and that you can make a difference yourself locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155042	I am certainly in favour of things being citizens-driven. I don't know if I didn't make that clear the first time. There's no value judgment about the project on my part. I have not seen an application for that project and, as far as I know, there is no actual project description that has been submitted as an application. So that's not what we're dealing with. What we are dealing with is what the law says, and the law says that you cannot grant a single project permission and raise the reservation for it. So that is not possible. Should you withdraw all reservations and allow everyone to bid in, there will not be any assurance, firstly, that it will then be the given project that would be authorised there, and secondly, there are other problems too, but I can see that the President is standing up, so...
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155127	I just got one last shot in the gay, I think. It must be so that if something stands in the way of the green transition, then I hope that the ambition of the government is as high as my party's ambition to get rid of what is standing in the way so that we can get started on this. I think we owe a lot of people that. That is why my question is simply: does the Minister intend to discuss this with the conciliation circle if there is legislation that stands in the way of it so that it can get up to the next conciliation meeting so that what stands in the way can be removed and moved forward? For the Left would very much like the citizen-driven initiative, and it is in fact only the government that stands in the way of it, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155205	Now the Left itself is part of this legislation and has helped to secure us against the problem that has been involved in land shaming, which is why these area reservations have been closed. I think that left still seems to be a problem. It is clear that if the Left Party does not think I have heard from the rapporteur in question that it has changed its position, then we will have to look at that matter again. But we're in the process of illuminating this area together. The solution that needs to be worked out must not only apply to the specific project, but must apply broadly, and I hope that this will be the case with the friendly cooperation of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155242	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and thank you to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. We move on to the next question, or that is, that the next question has been deleted (pm. No. S 44), so we move on to the question after that (spm. No. S 47), i.e. item 9 on the agenda, to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and that is what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155307	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee that the government will not again destroy the parties at 24 hours' notice so that the guests who come from afar can at least know that they do not get into a plane or a train and risk, when they arrive on Friday afternoon, that the government has banned them from attending the party the next day?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155327	On Friday, 25 September, it was announced that the 50-person ban from the following day would also apply to private events; that is what the questioner is referring to. In September we saw an increase in the number of infected people. There was a need to introduce measures to stop developments and managed to put an end to that trend. We heard from the health authorities back then that there was often infection at parties and private social events, and we saw examples of super-spreading events at private gatherings. And with the knowledge that this type of event was one of the driving forces of the infection, it would, in our view, be irresponsible not also to intervene and limit the infection wherever possible. After all, the Danish corona management is based on a high level of monitoring of the development of infection. We keep trying to be ahead of the infection and keep it under control. This, of course, also has some consequences for the Danes. It would, of course, be optimal if we could have both one hundred per cent predictability, a good long run-in period, and put in place the initiatives we consider necessary to keep the infection under control in good time. But if we have to choose between this one hundred per cent predictability and long run-in period and the whole thing and the control of infection, which is recommended by the authorities as being necessary, then the fight against infection has priority. During the autumn, we have seen a number of examples of European countries which, unfortunately, have not responded in time to an increase in infection in their societies. The result is an epidemic that is out of control, and a state of emergency has also been introduced in several countries. We must do everything we can to try to avoid this by being ahead of developments, even if developments are unpredictable. This is precisely one of the things that our early warning system should be involved in, not one to create a predictability, but to give as much predictability as possible about handling, there should be developments in the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155531	The reason I'm asking if the government is going to cancel parties again at 24 hours' notice is that wedding parties, christenings and, for that matter, funerals and other very large and important family events are dragging people from afar. There will often be people from abroad if you have family or friends who live abroad, and it is not fair that they should get on a plane in the afternoon and then discover when they arrive that the government has held one of its Friday press meetings and then has forbidden them to be in the event the next day. But it is also important that there is reasonableness and that there is support in the population. I fear that if you are exposed to the night before your own wedding, you have to sit and call guests and tell them that they can't come anyway, you will find it hard to respect the rules that are laid down in the future. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to cancel parties at 24 hours' notice. It's not like the infection explodes overnight. It is about having a calm hand on the wheel and making sure to adjust the course, but not making such violent fluctuations that people cannot accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155650	I fully agree and thank you for that speech. I can agree to a hundred percent. We keep trying to give longer respit. Last time we gave some respit over the weekend, and it was introduced from Monday. We're trying to do it. I just can't promise it and say that we will be able to do it all the time, because things can happen. These could be super-spreading events. We have also seen it in our neighbouring countries, where things are suddenly going very, very fast; but we are doing everything we can, and I fully agree with it, Mr President. Jarlov says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155715	Thank you. Then I don't have much else to ask. I am pleased that the government has taken note of the criticism, and I have also noted that at the last Friday meeting, a few more days were given before the ban on the assembly was tightened. So I am pleased about that, and I hope the government will stick to that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155733-2	We will make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155740	Thank you. The question has been answered. The next question is also to the Minister for Health and the Elderly. That's what Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, and co-questioner is Mrs Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155752	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155756	Does the Minister consider that shutting down North Jutland was an overindulgence, given that it is almost fully open again?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125155806	The decision to take the measures in the seven municipalities concerned in North Jutland was taken and withdrawn on the basis of a clear and reinforced risk assessment by the Statens Serum Institut, which the Danish Health Authority supported, and a clear recommendation from the effort group. The CDC risk assessment concludes that continued mink breeding during an ongoing covid-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including the possibility of preventing covid-19 with vaccines. At the beginning of November we knew that 94 per cent. of the virus variants originating from mink were found in North Jutland in connection with our samples, and the effort group, including the health authorities, recommended that a number of actions should be taken to reduce the development of infection in seven North Jutland municipalities, and the recommendation the government chose to follow. We have no desire to maintain any action, of course not even in the municipalities of Northern Jutland, longer than the maximum necessary, and therefore we also told the municipalities of Northern Jutland, to their mayors and to business and citizens that we will relax as quickly as possible again, and this required a lot of testing and segmenting and that there were some good answers to those segmentations. Fortunately, there we are now, so thank you to the Northern Jutlanders for being tested and for contributing to this, so that we have already been able to lift virtually all restrictions. We are still continuing the testing; it is important that we get to the end of it here too. This is why the measures were relaxed again in North Jutland, when there was a professional basis for relaxing, and the announcement came on 19 November. So the answer is, no, it's not an expression of overconfidence. This is a clear recommendation from our health authorities in the effort group, and I am only happy that we have been able to lift the restrictions earlier than at first withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160001	Thank you to the Minister for Health for the answer. After all, this is a decision taken by the government which has had great human and economic costs for many northern Jutlanders. 280,000 northern Jutlanders have been locked up in their own municipalities and often in their own homes and have had to work from home. And that is why some of us represent North Jutland who are concerned: Was it now necessary to shut down so hard? And I do not dispute that the Minister for Health has received a recommendation from the authorities. I do not contest that at all, but I will just allow myself to ask with the knowledge we have today: was that the right thing to do? The Prime Minister has said, and I think the Minister for Health has also said, that mistakes will be made, and this just looks like • with the knowledge we have today • a mistake, the Minister for Health. What's the proof of that? Well, in all the other situations where you've shut down, you've had to wait 4 weeks before opening up. You're supposed to be on the safe side. You open this door a few days after you shut down. So I think that for many Northern Jutlanders and also for me as elected representatives, it looks as if the authorities overreacted. Nordjylland was proclaimed the new global center of a pandemic, the new Wuhan, a little popularly said. It hurts the North Jutlanders to hear something like that. When you look into the basis of it, it's hard to see with what we know now that it was the right decision, and then I just think it would suit both the authorities and the Minister for Health to say: it was an overreaction; there we were overcautious. And I understand that the government will be cautious and there are good reasons for this in the interests of citizens' health, public health and we in the Left agree with that, but we must be careful not to be overly cautious when there are huge human and also financial costs. Can the Minister for Health not understand that there are some Northern Jutlanders who are wondering: Was it necessary now? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160203	Yeah, and I totally agree that it's this hammering hard balance between doing what needs to be done and not doing too much. But rather do a little too much than do too little, because if we do too little, things will go wrong. And with the knowledge that was available, and with the mink stain, which was concentrated among people in these municipalities, that was the reason for doing so. And so, having been able to open earlier and also earlier than other openings, it is because there has been a massive test effort from 7 November to 21 November, and we have been able to put in that result. We did not have that when we had to make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160244	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160247	I do not think the Minister for Health really answers the question. When there was a hearing last Monday in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, there was one of the experts, sir. Jens Lundgren, who said and now I quote that he had difficulty understanding the rationale of the decommissioning, and there he refers to North Jutland. That was an answer to a question I had asked, and that is the same question I am asking here. Well, there are experts who say: we do not quite see that there was a background for shutting down so hard. There I just ask the Minister for Health again: was it not just a caution, but an overconfidence with great human and economic costs, that North Jutland was shut down so hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160326	I also attended that hearing, and there were many experts from Denmark and one from abroad who were involved, and there were several experts who did not agree. That is absolutely right. There was no agreement, not even between the experts, about exactly where the cut should be, and we have to act. After all, we have the responsibility, also on the basis that we now had, and that is why it was tested through. The case was also that, as we could see from the tests we had available, from the first 2 weeks of October the last segment was that half of the infection in the population of North Jutland, in these municipalities, was mink-related, and we had to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160409	Then it is Mrs. Marie Bjerre who is the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160414	Thank you. Then I would like to follow up where my colleague Karsten Lauritzen left off. The Minister says that relatively soon after, there was a technical basis for relaxing the restrictions in North Jutland. It is just very difficult as North Jutland to see that there was even a technical basis for shutting down, and so I would like to ask: what exactly has changed from when the decision to shut down was taken? Is it alone that much more Northern Jutland has been tested and that it can be seen that there is not so much spread of infection? I also believe that this could be seen when people shut down; at least the spread of infection has been greater in other municipalities. So I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160455	There are several elements that it has also been publicly communicated, as we put it here, and the elements are that massive testing has been carried out on the basis of a caravan test that has been carried out in these municipalities, in other words, tested massively. There have now been two responses to the segmentations that have been done by the positive tests, where it has been possible to identify how it looks with the mink variants in humans. The Minkrevoire is out of the equation in the municipalities concerned, so there is no potential infection in these municipalities. So there are several different elements that make us a good place today, namely the place that is about us now knowing more about what would have been of dark figures and would have been of variations between people, and there is nothing else to do than then to test and then to get some results. And these are the reasons why we were fortunately able to relax earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160601	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160602	I just find this explanation very difficult to see makes sense when it comes to shutting down so hard, because it closed down on 4 November because of the risk of these infections and especially cluster-5, which is very, very dangerous. But then they found out, and you knew that at that time it was only in the two municipalities. Why was it so necessary to shut down the other five municipalities? Was that an overconfidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160628-2	After all, the questioner asked why we opened up again. That's what I said. Now she asks why people shut down, and I would like to answer that, and these are, of course, related reasons, but one cannot say that one does not understand one if I answer the other. Now I would like to answer the question as to why these municipalities affected were closed down, and it was because we could see that we in the mink farms had very high levels of infection. We could see in the segments we had made in the last weeks from October, which were available, that about half of the human infection was mink-related, and we had knowledge that there were mutations in mink, including cluster-5, but not at all just cluster-5. And that was the reason for our authorities, who are public and who can be looked up and who have also been communicated in press meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160717	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160718	Thank you. The Minister for Health says again that you then got new figures, which is why you could open up, and that was welcome. Can the Minister for Health not confirm that the new figures obtained were test results from week 44 and week 45? These were figures from before the decommissioning started, and that is at least for the layman proof that if you had waited a little for the figures and could see that things were going in the right direction, then perhaps there would have been no need to shut down North Jutland with as much economic and human costs as it was, and therefore it was an expression of over-cautiousness.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160757	It is true if you only take note of the segmenting data, but the figures I have mentioned here today are also figures from the test and the positive rate, just as it is knowledge of how it went about getting the mini-creservoire out of the equation, and that is related to the whole risk assessment. If we had waited a little bit, we'd be smarter than that, but we don't have the option to wait a little and hope the best and close our eyes and cross our fingers. We need to respond to the attitude of our health authorities, and so did we here, and then we lift these restrictions off as soon as possible, and that has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160836	That concludes the question. We shall move on to the next question, and it is also by Mr Beazley. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left, Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group: S 428.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160844	Here you go, sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160845	Thank you. Does the Minister not think that it would be trust-building towards the Northern Jutlanders to publish the decision-making material for the hard decommissioning of the seven North Jutland municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125160900	Thank you for that question. The risk assessment by the Statens Serum Institut is, after all, fully public, as well as the segmentation data from the Serum Institute. And I think that we have been in numerous press meetings and perhaps many press meetings, I think some may think, but there may be different views on that; we are trying to answer all questions and explained, not only by the government, as it is ultimately a political responsibility, I fully agree with that, but also by our authorities, why they recommend these actions. You can always be better at communicating and explaining, and of course we constantly strive to do so, but the data and risk assessments that lie behind it are publicly available, among other things. on the website of the Statens Serum Institut.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161003	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161004	Thank you to the Minister for Health for the answer. And yes, it is true that the government has held many press meetings. Now there was an urgent question a little earlier, and it had to be understood that we cannot necessarily count on what is said by the government at these press meetings. There are at least some mink growers who thought that there was a legal basis for killing mink and for paying compensation to them, but that did not turn out to be the case. From this point of view, I think it is actually fair to ask a little critical questions at least about what the government says in the press meetings. But it was, in fact, a side remark. When I ask the question here and ask the government to publish the decision-making documents, it is related to the previous question that not only for me, but also for experts in the field, it is true that there are slightly different opinions, but there are, of course, leading experts who find it difficult to see the rationale in the decommissioning of North Jutland might help if the decision-making basis were put forward. Today there is a story on the cover of NORDJYSK, where skilled journalists have revealed that there were errors in the decision-making material. That is what journalists are writing, and now journalists are not sources of justice, but I just want to read from the story of NORDJYSKE today, where it says: 'NORDJYSKE can prove that there are several direct errors and misleading information in the document submitted to the government. In the article, SSI also acknowledges that you have wrong numbers and that you have made wrong percentage calculations. By the way, there is an expert who says that if it had been a scientific article for a magazine, it would have been rejected because it was not good enough. I am just saying that, in this light, it might be beneficial for the building of confidence that the government not only holds press meetings but also presents the decision-making material for the decision that has had very great human and economic consequences for the part of the country that I and other good members of the House represent.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161202	Unfortunately, I haven't read NORDJYSK exactly today, but I can hear that I have to, and I will. I can almost imagine that there will also be a few parliamentary questions in connection with the article, and I will then also provide written or oral answers to the time of the joy. So I cannot comment on the specific article. Anyway, the State Serum Institute's risk assessment and segmentation data are on their website. On the Danish Food Authority's website, data are publicly available in relation to the mink situation. And can we put more forward? Well, we're putting out everything we can at all. We have no interest in not presenting all these objective data.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161241	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161242	Well, it's not easy being Minister of Health, not at all when there's a global pandemic. So, on the one hand, I have seen on a personal level sympathy for the Minister's situation, but on the other hand, it is my job to represent some citizens who have to live with the consequences of both the government's, but also the authorities' assessments and I think it was a mistake to shut down North Jutland. When you look at what NORDJYSK is putting forward, SSI also acknowledges that there were errors in the foundation, and therefore I say again to the Minister for Health: why not publish the basis for decision for the effort group and for the government that led to this violent decision to shut down North Jutland? Wouldn't that be trust-building?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161325-2	So, as I said, the article in question has simply not been able to read yet, but I look forward to doing so. The risk assessment on the basis of which it was based, the segmentation data on which it was based, and all information on the slaughter of mink etc. in the area, and it is publicly on the websites, just as we have also orally answered questions about it both here in the Danish Parliament and at various press meetings. It has been a clear recommendation from the effort group to deliver these restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161404	Then it is Mrs. Marie Bjerre who is the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161406	Thank you. I understand that the Minister has not read today's NORDJYSK, which I also understand, but I hope that the Minister will read today's article, which is very relevant. In the article where a number of errors have been identified in SSI's risk assessment, questions are also asked about what has been done to ensure the quality of the report, whether it has been reviewed by an independent person. And I would therefore like to move on to the Minister here today. What has the government done to ensure the quality of SSI's risk assessment and has it been reviewed by an independent person?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161449-2	I simply do not understand the question that has been raised by an independent person? I just don't understand. Well, we have an authority in Denmark, the Statens Serum Institute. Is it to be understood that the Left believes that the Statens Serum Institute's professional assessment and professional risk assessment are not impartial and that it should be reviewed by an independent person? Am I supposed to understand that the Left now means it? I am really looking for it because I have had a debate with the rapporteur of the Left that they want different setup, and it is very, very difficult for me to understand exactly what it is for a setup that the Left needs. But the Left is now asking: Has it been reviewed by an independent person? Is it my understanding, then, that the Left considers that the Statens Serum Institute's professionalism is not based on a health professional basis, that is to say that it is not impartial in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161544	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161545	At least it's pretty scary what you can see in the cover in this article. It shows clear errors in SSI's risk assessment, suggesting that there could well have been a basis for proper quality assurance. Therefore, we also need to ask critically what action has been taken by the Ministry to ensure quality assurance of such a report. Because it is frightening that such serious errors can be found in a risk assessment, and that is why I think it is quite relevant to hear: what has been done to ensure quality? And it is possible that the Minister may not be able to answer it now. It is also relevant to hear whether there has been, I can call it an independent person, I can also call it a second opinion. In any case, it shows quite clearly that some quality assurance of the report has been needed. And that's the question I'm bringing forward. Has anything been done to ensure quality of those assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161632-2	There is, of course, to the Covid-19 follow-up group, where the Left is also members, to what extent and how to involve a number of experts on an ongoing basis. Many of the experts are also known from Danish media. They are involved in the various parts, also in the work of the Statens Serum Institute, both in their projections, in their data processing, in their bases and in their assessments. The Department of Health does, the CDC does, and so does the Ministry of Health. It's a perfectly normal part of involving people. This is something other than saying that there must be independent second opinions. It's something else entirely. But, of course, we do, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161711	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161712	Thank you. I do not think it is fair to demand that the Minister for Health read all regional newspapers, but I would recommend the Minister for Health to go back to his ministry in relation to it. For what SSI recognises in that article in NORTHJYSK is that there were errors in the basis. And then there is an expert who says that he does not think it is right, and that may lead to a wrong act; that you have set something to the government, which was an overreaction. That is why I would again call on the Minister to lay out the basis for the decision of the government and the effort group so that we can have some more confidence in the recommendations that come from the government and the decisions that have led to the closure of a part of the country, perhaps on an over-cautious basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161803-2	Thank you. I can see that my skilled employee has just sent me the article, and of course I will read it as soon as I have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161809	That concludes this question. And then we're gonna make a shift change, compared to who's the main questioner. It is still with the Minister for Health and the elderly, and this time it is Mrs Bjerre who is asking questions. S 430.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161824	Why did the Minister think it was necessary to shut down seven municipalities in northern Jutland for four weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125161833	Thank you for that question too. I mean, I've answered that question. It was a clear recommendation from the effort group on the basis of knowledge about infection from mink in humans, and it was necessary for us to have complete certainty and clarity about that development, and that is what has happened. And as we got the clarity and the people in the municipalities concerned allowed themselves to be tested and we had the sequencing of the tests, we of course got the answers first of all about the extent of the disease development, but of course we also need to look at new sequencings coming this week, and I look forward to that as well. So, of course, we're still following it close. But that is the reason. Well, there was, and there is still missing in Denmark minksmitt in the population. We can see that it is not only in North Jutland, but now it has moved to other places, and then we have an effort to get tested and put in there. But now it is North Jutland that the questioner asks, and that is what I am replying to, so that there was a situation where we at that time had more than 90%. of the minksmint found in people it was found in these municipalities of North Jutland. We could see that the latest sequencing data showed that about half of the human infection in these municipalities in North Jutland was a mink variant. And that's where the authorities thought it was necessary to put in place and map out these mink variants in humans and put an end to the infection. And that's what happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162031	Here you go, Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162032	When the government shut down 7 North Jutland municipalities on 4 November, we all thought it was about this very dangerous cluster-5-mutation in mink and in humans. There were a total of 12 cases in 7 northern Jutland municipalities, and North Jutland was proclaimed the new Wuhan. The result was that the government chose to isolate 7 municipalities and isolate 280,000 northern Jutlanders. These restrictions, this shutdown, have had far more consequences for the Northern Jutlanders than the decommissioning in the spring. After all, you could go to work across the municipal boundaries, after all, you could send your children to school and to day care across the municipal boundaries. We have not been able to do so for 14 days, and that means that it requires the decision to be all the more necessary. Already on 13 November the government chose to partially open North Jutland. Then there was no reference to cluster-5. Now it was about the general pressure of infection. I can just say as a North Jutlander that this explanation is very difficult to understand when it comes to seeing that the pressure of infection on the West is much higher than in North Jutland. Last week it also emerged from numerous attempts to get an answer to the fact that cluster-5 had not been found at all on Læsø, and then we could find out that cluster-5 was in fact only detected in Hjørring and Frederikshavn, and that there was also doubt as to whether cluster-5 is so dangerous in relation to a new vaccine. In other words, it seems that there are no arguments for shutting down North Jutland for as long as four weeks and with the restrictions imposed. There have been no cluster-5 in 5 of the municipalities. Probably it's not dangerous at all. The mines have already been killed, and they were already killed at the beginning of the period, and in some of the municipalities there is the lowest pressure of infection in the country. That is why I have to ask why, as a government, it was felt necessary to shut down seven municipalities in northern Jutland and for as long as four weeks on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162234	I've been around that many times. That is a clear attitude of the authorities. There were several elements: a rapid development among mink farms in the infection. We can see that it exploded. We have now known over 280 mink farms in Denmark that have been infected. It explodes enormously, and it mutates enormously in mink. It is well described scientifically and presented openly. Should I understand that if the Left had been responsible for government, it would have been said: no, we are not doing what the authorities consider necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162307	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162308	Now I understand that the Minister is changing his statement again. Now it's all about these types of infection. First it was about cluster-5, then it was about pressure of infection, and now it is about variants, and I hope the Minister can understand that it is very difficult to understand the basis for having been shut down for so long. If, then, it is a question of varieties of infection, I would like to hear: to what extent was it in the seven municipalities? Was it also only in the municipalities of Hjørring and Frederikshavn? Will the Minister state how widespread this is in the seven municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162341	No, there are no changed arguments from me. I am trying to find out what the position of the Left is, in addition to being critical, and that is fine. You have to be critical in opposition, and these are the conditions, and that is quite all right. But it might perhaps be interesting to have an answer from the Left: would you have overheard this attitude from the task force, from our authorities and said: we hope and wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162408	I should just like to point out that this is Question Time to the Minister and not the other way around. Now it's sir. Karsten Lauritzen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162420	The Minister for Health will not lay the foundations, and now the Minister for Health asks what decision the Left would have taken. I can say that we would like to deal with this if the Minister wants to lay the foundations. After all, we do not have the basis for decision that the Minister of Health has. In general, I can recommend, even if the situation is difficult, that when it comes to making very violent decisions in human and economic terms, you have of course had a public health focus and are cautious also to be careful about what the consequences are about to be over-cautious, and I think it would suit the Minister of Health here today to say: With the knowledge we have now, we went very hard at work, and we are sorry; we will continue to be careful and take care of public health, but we will not be as over-cautious as we were when we closed down North Jutland, with the severe human and economic costs that it has had. It would suit the Minister of Health to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162526	Thank you for that advice, and I can then consider how much I will follow. The situation in North Jutland was at that time that about half of the northern Jutlanders who were tested positive for the covid-19 in the first 2 weeks of October that was where we had the most recent figure that was infected with a virus variant that originated from mink. We knew in early November that approx. 94% of the virus variances in people originating from mink were found in North Jutland, and that is the reason. If so virus variants were indifferent, if the mutations in mink were indifferent, and it was just a reservoir of many, many millions, it was one thing, but the virus variants and virus mutations in mink are not indifferent, and therefore it is an overall assessment which is based on completely objective things that lie ahead on the controls' websites.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162636	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162637	Thank you to the Minister for that reply. However, authorities may also be wrong, and what impresses me is the hearing that we had last Monday, when there were other experts, also some with the same knowledge as the Statens Serum Institute, who say that they find it difficult to see the rationale of that decision. And it is not because I dispute that the government made a different decision from the one that was set. I am merely questioning whether there is a recognition by the relevant authorities, by the government, of the fact that it might have been over-cautious. And when you look at the fact that there is no mink left, that cluster-5 has been exterminated and maybe never been there and is not dangerous, you ask yourself the question: was it really necessary to shut down all those seven municipalities to that extent? That is just the reflection we ask the Minister for Health to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162723	That reflection I can reassure Karsten Lauritzen with is present all the time in everything we do, also because it is unknown waters we are moving in. We have not tried to find ourselves in a situation where there is a pandemic that mutates in mink, which exists in humans, in over half of the infected. No country has ever done that before. Denmark was the first country to know me who had the challenge, and there are always reflections about: Are we going backwards? Are we doing too much now? Are we doing enough? It has the character of Monday training because you can do it after the game is played and you have all the results of all the segmentations and tests etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162759	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162800	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Karsten Lauritzen asked, i.e. if it would not be appropriate to recognise that it was a mistake to shut down North Jutland for 4 weeks. We have been well around whether it was even necessary to shut down North Jutland; I still doubt whether it was necessary. It seems to me to look like it was an overreaction. But would the Minister not acknowledge that it was certainly not necessary to make an announcement to shut down for a total of four weeks? Because this has meant that we have North Jutland companies that have been sending their employees home for four weeks, which was not necessary. They could have sent the employees home for two weeks instead. And so it has had some major consequences for these companies. Would the Minister not acknowledge that it was a mistake to report out so hard and to say that it was a shutdown for four weeks? Instead, it could have been said that it was a shutdown for the time being until I know what mink is killed or that a certain proportion of the population has been tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162900	Yes, but I fully acknowledge that. I mean, when we hit so hard and then start relaxing again when we start getting the answers, because these are some really good answers that we get from the tests and the segmentations that have happened, it has to be that way. But may I remind you that before I got this question in the Folketing, I received another question from the Conservatives, which was about: can we not have something more predictable? Can we not have some more clarity and some longer horizons to act on? And that's the game we're in. We are trying to give as long a horizon as possible, but we have also promised the Northern Jutlanders that we will not keep closed one day longer than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162939	That concludes the question. Thank you to Mrs. Marie Bjerre and Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. We continue with the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and this time it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party with question S 433.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125162956	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163001	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that the government's Corona restrictions mean that visits to elderly people in nursing homes should in many cases take place outdoors over the winter and that the elderly in nursing homes may only have indoor visits by one family member?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163023	No, and I would like to state my reasons for that. And thank you for the question. Unfortunately, as the questioner is also aware, we have seen infection chains emerging in different parts of society. The infection is spreading and we are at a high level in Denmark, but we have the epidemic under control. That is why it is important that we all do everything we can to protect our particularly vulnerable, and it is in the nursing homes that we have particularly vulnerable people for whom it can have fatal consequences. The Patient Safety Management Board may issue restrictions or bans on visits when necessary to prevent or contain the spread of covid-19. In this situation, the next of kin can continue to visit the residents'homes, as well as visitors to critical situations. These restrictions on visits etc. has been an important tool in protecting some of our most vulnerable citizens from infection, even when compared to developments abroad. But I am very aware that the visitor restrictions are, of course, very intrusive for the individual resident and for his or her relatives. The rules have been changed per year. November 15th. The Patient Safety Management Board may, as part of an injunction, provide that residents may receive visits to an indoor visitor room by the next of kin and two other close relatives, with a maximum of two visitors at a time. This is a solution that takes into account the fact that there is an important protection requirement in relation to residents of nursing homes. After all, this is a group that is particularly vulnerable to the infection, and it is still important that we ensure that visits can be organised in a good and controlled manner and that it is possible to follow the relevant health recommendations so that the risk of infection is prevented and reduced for both residents and visitors and, of course, also for staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163214	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163215	In the Danish People's Party we fully agree that we should of course take care of the elderly, but I am surprised by the balance that exists with regard to the Corona restrictions on the government. At the time, it was the case that nursing homes and nursing staff were put in the back of the queue when they had to distribute and prioritise protective equipment, and I thought that was a strange priority on the part of the government. And now we see many older people sitting lonely and many relatives who are frustrated, and then I wonder why you haven't thought about solutions. I have put a question to the Minister about whether, for example, we should do something about it. the Minister has replied that it does not in itself provide access to a nursing home. I am surprised that tests and protective equipment and recommendations are not being considered in connection with visits. Then I have received an answer from the Minister that a little has been relaxed and that a maximum of visits can be made. Two at a time in a visitor room, and then what I'm thinking is: What is the difference between visiting an elderly person in a visitor room or visiting the elderly person in his own home? In the Danish People's Party we have also asked if it makes a difference that you have your own entrance, so that you can for example. Going in from a balcony or if it doesn't make any difference. I simply think that the Minister for the Elderly has been too vague to think about solutions. I fully agree that we must take care of the elderly, but we also have to say that when you are older and you live in a nursing home, you can say that this is the last time, and we must also ensure that it is as good as possible. The other day there was an article about Marie, who was 100 years old and had to choose between her children, and she was only allowed to have one of the children visiting her 100th birthday. I think that this is inhumane and I think that we should find solutions together so that we can ensure both health but also that the elderly can have a good time in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163431	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163432	I cannot and will not disagree with that. These are exactly practical solutions to the situation that is needed. For just as much as hearing the report which is mentioned, where you have to choose between your children, it cuts your heart just as much when you hear about the fortunately few examples we have had in Denmark, but unfortunately many abroad in nursing homes that have almost collapsed due to infection and where the infection has spread among staff, relatives and elderly people, with very, very serious consequences. That is where we need to ensure that there is a low-practical approach, or that good practical health-care solutions are at least being created.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163518	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163519	That is where I do not think the government has done enough, for example. with regard to ensuring that health professionals are tested. We also hear that they are not being tested to the extent that they should, nor has protective equipment been secured. All these things have not been taken care of, so we have been able to ensure that the elderly can have visits. Then I have another question for the Minister about something on which I have a lot of inquiries. We're approaching Christmas with speedy steps. How's Christmas? Not all elderly people have the opportunity to visit their family members, but may have to stay in their home at the nursing home • How many are they allowed to visit for Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163602	We have actually asked the rulers to make some assessments regarding Christmas precisely because it means so much and that it means so much across generations for a great many families here in Denmark. We are assessing it very carefully at the moment and will provide advice on how to deal with it. It's not easy, either in Denmark or in the rest of Europe, because it's hard to see many weeks ahead in this pandemic, but the goal is of course a safe and secure Christmas, which doesn't give new infectious bombs, but where you can be with your loved ones, and then some of it must be at a distance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163639	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163640	I would ask the Minister for Health to make a plan in this area as soon as possible so that the elderly can be visited in health-friendly ways, but also to ensure that they do not have to sit alone and be abandoned. I would therefore ask the Minister to do this as soon as possible. I am met by members of the municipal council, relatives and others who do not know how to deal with this at all, because the rules are being changed all the time and they find it difficult to keep up with them. So when does the minister want a plan ready? When can I give answers to relatives, to the elderly and to the municipal councils who are sitting out there and who are also waiting for answers to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163723	After all, we in Denmark, including the governments, are subject to the same conditions as the rest of Europe. It is better in Denmark than in many other countries, and that is good. But we do not know what will happen in the coming weeks in Denmark either. And in relation to Christmas restrictions and rules for Christmas in the rest of Europe, I know there is great uncertainty and everyone is waiting. We hope and we fight for a Christmas that will be as good as possible and as safe and secure as possible, but unfortunately it will not be normal. We cannot say at this stage that exactly this will be the case because, unfortunately, we cannot predict the rate of infection so far into December at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163806	That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Mr. Erling Bonnesen. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 412.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163816	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163817	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to the Minister for the new job, and good luck with that. The question is: what is the government's attitude to the agricultural and food sector in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125163831	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Erling Bonnesen, for the welcome, and also thanks for the good and relevant question. The government's position is quite firm and has not changed in recent weeks' events in the sector. Denmark is a proud farming nation, Danish farmers produce at a high level and ensure consumers around the world some of the best foods. It comes from the fact that Denmark has some of the world's most talented and very best farmers, who are innovative and who work hard from morning to evening. This has always been the case and, of course, it must continue to do so. The Coronapandemic has brought us into an extraordinary situation in which extraordinary action has been taken, including dramatic actions which have affected parts of agriculture unfairly. This is a huge challenge for those farmers who are directly affected. It has also challenged the relationship between the government and parts of the profession. What is needed now is for the many people who live on the agricultural and food sectors to experience calm and stability and have a guarantee that the government will back the industry. I would like to emphasise that support, both in terms of the conditions under which agriculture produces every day, but also in terms of the green transition in the future. The green transition is going to fill. We need to find a balance so that we also have economically strong agriculture in the future, and an agriculture that even more delivers on the green agenda. I have noted with pleasure that the industry itself and Agriculture & Food have engaged in the green transition. This is true both with its own initiatives and in action with green organisations. I think this is a good thing for the forthcoming dialogue, and I look forward to grasping the dialogue and, together with the industry, contributing to a strong and sustainable Danish agricultural and food sector. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164033	Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164035	Thank you. I just thought that was a good answer, and I will write it out immediately and put it up on my notice board. And if it should be necessary in the course of our hopefully forthcoming good cooperation, then I will take a copy of it and remind the Minister of that if the Minister should inadvertently come on the wrong road with other proposals. It is also well known that it has at least been with both red and blue food ministers that you have traveled around the world and also been good at promoting Denmark as one of the first. We have often heard about this in relation to what Denmark is good at exporting, and it is precisely these amazing foods that we agree with completely are among the world's best allerelles. So my follow-up question will be whether the Minister also agrees that the policy pursued in the future must not lead to a smaller food and agricultural sector in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164131	First of all, I welcome the reaction that Mr. Erling Bonnesen is exhibiting. I'm thinking we're gonna have a really good and close cooperation. For there is a need for stability and tranquillity to ensure that we also have strong food production in Denmark in the future. So that is the answer to the question: I see that Denmark must continue to be a strong food nation, a strong food producer. But it is clear that Denmark also has an obligation to show the green road. And there I am pleased that the industry is showing some tactics, and I also hope that the Left Party will support the greening of the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164211	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164212	I have great respect for the Minister's good speeches, but I have to ask once again what the Minister did not just get into, namely whether the Minister agrees that the policy pursued in the future should not lead to the inadvertent creation of a smaller food and agricultural sector in Denmark. I think that is important. We fully agree with and open our eyes to the green transition and the objective of being climate neutral by 2050 etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164251	As I also mentioned in my first reply, Danish farmers produce some of the very best foods of the highest quality, which is why it would be immensely a pity if we were to produce less. So I don't see that. But it is clear that we need to find ways to do this, which is greener and more climate-oriented, and we need to find a solution to that without compromising the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164317	Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164318	We're getting a little closer, but we're missing, like, that it's also crystal clear. It is a little between the lines in what the Minister says it might well be that there was something less. But what is it that the Minister is thinking of there being less in the food and agricultural sector in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164338	It goes without saying that part of the government's green policy is about less climate impact. In other words, we simply want less pressure on our climate, we want less pollution and a less environmental impact. But I am sure that in close dialogue with the industry we can find solutions to this. It is not in any way my wish that we should have a small food business in Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164405	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm just becoming an idiot by the noise outside. The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and that is what Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164424	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164425	Thank you. What is the government's attitude to the food and agricultural sector as a major export sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164433	Well, thank you again for a pertinent question from Mr. Erling Bonnesen, whom I appreciate. As mentioned in my previous answer to the question that was under S 412, Denmark is a proud farming nation with farmers and food companies that produce at a high level and ensure consumers around the world some of the very best foods. The Danish food sector has a significant export which, not least during the coronapandemic, helps to hold hands during Danish exports and economics. Overall, the Danish food cluster exports more than 160 billion. kr. The average annual rate of increase is approximately 1.4% per year, i.e. the average annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase in the annual rate of increase We must do everything we can to maintain and develop that position. We support the industry with research and development efforts and efforts for export promotion. We keep doing that. At the same time, the government has a strong focus on conditions that could threaten exports from the food cluster. This applies, among other things, to: the risk of African swine fever outbreaks. Here, the Ministry constantly assesses the situation very closely, and I appreciate the industry's own actions, including in relation to biosecurity and housing solutions. The global shutdown resulting from the covid-19 makes it difficult for exporters, and the government has set up a number of restart teams that have made recommendations for export efforts, including among others. exemption from the fees paid by undertakings for export certificates. The situation around brexit remains uncertain, unfortunately, and poses another possible threat to exports. The government is following closely in Britain's negotiations with third countries outside the EU, as this can lead to increased competition for Danish companies. Regardless of how the negotiations on brexit land, the government is committed to ensuring that the specific export procedures to Britain are as flexible and flexible as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164650	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164651	Thank you. I also think that was a good answer and it will be dealt with in the same way as the first one. I'm gonna write this up, too, and I'm gonna put it up on the notice board. I thought there were some good bars in it. And the prerequisite for fulfilling that requirement, namely that Denmark's food and agricultural sector should both supply our domestic market, but also still be a large export sector, makes it necessary to use the word development much more than the word dismantling. When it was that we didn't get off the ground with the first question, I'm gonna have to hold on a little to that end. After all, the Minister did not answer whether there was anything the Minister thought should be less of. Can I then turn it around 180 degrees and say that it must then be the case that the Minister does not think that there is any of what we have in our livestock production today? it may be our pig production, milk production, beef production or chicken production there should be less of, and that there must be more of the new stuff that comes up in the new consumer trends with plant-based foods etc.? Yes, we must produce more of the new things, but there must be no less of the other things. Can I deduce it from that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164809	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen to get stuck here too. Sir. Erling Bonnesen himself is talking about the fact that we are probably looking into a future where consumers will also choose to buy more plant-based. There is a trend in times when people are very climate conscious and therefore choose to put together their diet so that they may eat better meat when they eat it, but then more plant-based by the way. I guess that also means that the industry has to adapt to it. From this point of view, it may well be that we are going to produce a little less of it, but that is not a political objective. We are pleased with the exports of which the food cluster is part. It means a lot to the Danish economy, and that is where we need to develop and innovate. This isn't about winding up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164857	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164858	I think it is a good thing that we agree that, to the extent that consumers and it may be both domestic and foreign • will choose more plant-based food products in the future, that is fine. Then it's just about getting started and producing and selling loose. However, we can say that when we look at animal production, it would not be more or less indirect, in one way or another, to dictate that other productions, which in a global perspective are also among the best in the world and produced with some of the lowest climate footprints, should then be eliminated. Now the Minister came half a step closer to saying that it might well be that it came to that. Then it must be the farmer's choice. Can we agree on that? It should not be the policy pursued, either by the government or the Folketing, that will lead to less animal production. Can we agree that far?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125164954	I think that one of the characteristics of our skilled farmers is not just the high quality. It is also the fact that you are skilled merchants, so when you see a trend in the time when consumers become increasingly climate conscious and may choose to save the particularly good piece of meat for the weekend and then maybe eat more plant-based in everyday life, it also makes you slowly but surely change, also to take part of the responsibility for climate change. It is in this light that we need to see this transformation, this innovation, and I look forward to it, together with the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen, to travel around and talk to the profession himself to find opportunities in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165032	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165034	I think it is good that when we look at the development trend of plant-based food products, we can find a common basis for this. I think that's good. But that does not have to lead to a reduction in pig production. We should also still be able to export the Danish pork roast and the good Danish steak and the good Danish chicken. So will the Minister ensure that this at least does not lead from the Minister's hand to the fact that the policy pursued will lead to less animal production, understood in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165117	Although I have two amazing daughters who have chosen to be vegetarians, pork roast is still away my absolute favorite, so it will not be a political declaration of intent on my part that we should have less pig production in Denmark. But we must have it in an environmentally sound way, and we must also have it in a way where we slowly, but surely, think more in climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165136	Before we get too hungry, we end the question here. Thank you to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries and to Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Then we have to move on to question No. 406. It is for the Minister for Children and Education by Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165153	Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165154	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that all day-to-day managers should continue to use additional resources for coronar cleaning, and when does the Minister believe that the managers should be informed of the specific amount they will be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165210	I think I've got a new seat, so I'm gonna take a step to the right, but you don't have to put more symbolism in that than it is. Well, the short answer is yes. They need more resources because there are some guidelines here in the coronatide that are different from the guidelines that apply when we are not in a coronatide. So the short answer is: Yes, they actually need more resources. With regard to the question of when to know what resources they have in this respect, the answer is: Long ago the government in these coronatides, where every minute is about eight times as far as normal, has made an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities that there is an economy behind the provision of the cleaning that is required. I think that's the short version of this. I would like to say that I have been somewhat frustrated to be repeatedly presented with the fact that there are day-care institutions, as well as schools, free schools and other institutions that have not yet received the funds. I have therefore taken the initiative to send a letter to both institutions, schools and municipalities together with the National Association of Municipalities, where we have announced it, because there has apparently been an ape game about whether it is the municipality that is responsible for the money coming or whether it is the state. Then we thought that it might be smartest, that we simply said that it is clear in that sense, and that therefore it became a joint request from KL and the state, which on the back of it made it clear that the money is there and needs to be spent. Yes, there is a different cleaning standard now than under normal circumstances. It is important, and the more winter bites, the more important it is that the cleaning is done because of the corona. There has been so little misunderstanding out there, because some people have thought that the much stricter cleaning rules that were in connection with the first decommissioning still applied. Of course, it is important that the individual institutions and schools inform themselves that the cleaning standard has actually been different depending on the decommissioning period we have been in. This means that the strictest cleaning rules applied for the first 14 days or a little more of the corona closure. Then there were some other rules. And it is clear that if you measure it against the first rules, of course resources are not present, because these are not the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165422	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165423	Thank you for that answer. When I ask, it is because the leaders are currently seeing that they are not being told anything, even if the Minister has written this letter. Therefore, right now, the leaders are in a situation where they have to choose from, whether they need to use the additional resources needed to carry out the extra cleaning, and then hope that they will be given the money later, or whether they will have to hold back. I would therefore ask the Minister to make it quite clear: what are the leaders going to do? Do they need the extra resources, or do they have to hold back?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165452	Well, the extra resources are in the municipalities. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the day institutions. That is to say, I cannot give that instruction. But what I can say is that we have a coronahotline that can be found on the Ministry's website, and if there are municipalities that do not provide those resources to individual day institutions, please be free to call the coronahotline, because then we can get to grips with the municipalities concerned and clarify the resource situation. That's the closest we'll get to it. So I would like to call for specific examples to be given. We have also had examples of municipalities that did not hand over muzzles to students who could not afford to buy them themselves. The municipalities must do so, and there we have also had contact with the municipalities concerned and asked them to keep up to date on the rules. It's just to say that it must be the way around, we're doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165541	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165542	But specifically here, for the second half of 2020, the municipalities have probably not received the money yet. So I would like to ask the Minister: when will the government and the KL have it negotiated, so that day-care heads get the specific amount, so that they are simply told that it is this money that they are being reimbursed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165600	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165603	Well, that's not really understood. The municipalities have It is simply a misunderstanding. I have also heard it out there, which is why I think it is quite appropriate that the rapporteur should also take it down here in the Chamber. Because I think this is a question where we have to repeat and repeat the answer in order to get it into all corners, and that is also why we sent out the letter. That is also why the KL is included in the letter, because they recognize that too, and that is exactly the wording that goes back to the letter we sent out, so that it is clear that the municipalities and the state are in fact agreed that this money is there, the resources are there, the task is ready and it needs to be solved. That is why I would just like to say once again: let us finally bring in the concrete examples so that we can deal with them one by one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165655	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165657	So just to spell it out completely: if you are a day care provider, you can be absolutely sure that you will be reimbursed all the expenses you have throughout 2020 for extra coronar cleaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165710	I just wanted to be able to say yes, but that would require me to be a municipality, because the way it works is that we put a bag of money off, which we have negotiated with the municipalities, and the municipalities must then make sure that they get out to the next stage. What I am saying is that if you experience that a municipality has not done what it is supposed to do, you can bypass by grabbing our coronahotline and saying: that is very fine, everything that you are sitting and saying in the Chamber right now, but that does not apply to us. And then we can say to the relevant municipality X, Y or Z: we have seen an agreement like this; you have got the resources; it is a pretty good idea if you also make it work out in the institution that is not getting properly cleaned right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165745	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and Mrs Lotte Rod. The question is closed. Then we have the pleasure and honour of welcoming the Secretary of Defense and Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen and Mr. Marcus Knuth as a co-author of Question No. S 424.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165800	Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165802	Thank you very much, sir. President: What is the Minister's view that the defence was deployed in connection with the government's illegal order to kill all Danish mink herds, which has meant that mink farmers with healthy herds have felt compelled to continue carrying out illegal killing orders, and who, according to the Minister, bears the highest responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165825	The minister. Well, there's a red light missing in the microphone there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125165836	It's because I've got my seat changed. Okay, then the place is the right one. As I have regularly informed the defense rapporteurs about and also the author of the defence has not defended the defense and the Home Guard can support other authorities' task solution according to section 7 of the Defence Act, while the Emergency Response Board can support according to section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. The defence, Emergency Management and Home Guard have contributed to the management of the corona crisis in many areas: manning coronahotlines, test centres, infectious detection, guarding trains, border control and patient transport, even guarding recycling sites. It's just to mention some of the efforts that the defense and Home Guard have supported other authorities with according to section 7 of the Defence Act and the Emergency Response Board according to section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. Under the leadership of the National Police, operational efforts are coordinated in relation to mink in the national operational staff, the NOST, and it is also through this that the Defence and Emergency Management Authority has been asked to provide practical and logistical support to the efforts of the Food and Environmental Authorities. In the serious situation and with public health at stake, it is natural that the defence, the Home Guard and the Emergency Agency support the efforts of the health authorities and the FDA, as they have done throughout the coronapandemic. Denmark, together with the rest of the world, is facing a major health crisis that affects society as a whole and threatens public health, but Denmark is at present better off than many of the countries around us. We are because the Danes have understood the seriousness and have given great support to the recommendations of the health authorities. But we are also in a better place because in Denmark we have been able to cooperate and support each other across the public and private sectors in order to safeguard public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170034	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170036	On the Conservative side, we are very surprised that the defence has thus helped to stamp out the illegal order for the slaughter of healthy mink. A very good example is that the defence has had the task of counting mink so that compensation could be granted, but that compensation was not provided for. In other words, is the Minister himself not very concerned about the role the defence has played in this matter, and what is the Minister doing to correct it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170108	I am concerned about the false claims that some people like to spread about the defence, that is, that the defence should act without a legal basis. As I have just said, the defence has not carried out the killing of mink, and the defence has acted under section 7 of the Defence Act, while the Emergency Response Authority has provided support under section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. Even the Chief of Defense has been right about the allegations that have been made, including from political groups, and I must strongly warn against this, because it is not fair to our soldiers to claim that they are killing mink on the one hand, and have acted without a legal basis on the other. Even the Chief of Defense has been right about this and says that it is not correct that the defense acts without a legal basis. And as I said in my previous reply, it is Section 7 of the Defence Act that has provided the support that the defense has given.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170207	I have certainly not spoken from here about the fact that the defence has killed mink, but on the contrary just asked about the count of mink. However, the press has been able to read that mink farmers have also been called by defence personnel to remind them of the killing. Has it not been enough that this was the task of the police? I am referring to an article in B.T., where Lars Sørensen, who is a great mink over from Bramming at Esbjerg, has received calls from the defense regarding this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170237-2	So, as I know, the article in question states that the breeder in question has felt well treated and has experienced that the defence has behaved quite properly and decently and asked when a census was wanted. Again, I must point out that what the defense has acted upon, and that is, whether the defense has supported at border control or supported with countdown of mink or disposal of mink or whether the Home Guard has manned call centers, that is, section 7 of the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170312	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170315	Thank you very much. I would say that it really torments my heart, as someone who has been a part of the defence for many years, to witness our soldiers being sent out on a mission that has its roots in an order from the Prime Minister, who subsequently turns out not to have a legal basis. And not only that, we see time and again, in today's debate in the Folketing, that the government waits several days to react after it finds out that the PM's order is illegal. So if I may ask the Secretary of Defense three very simple questions: when was the Secretary of Defense told himself that Mette Frederiksen's order was illegal, how did the Secretary of Defense get to know, and when did the Secretary of Defense send the message to the defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170356	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170357	Well, let me repeat that the defense and the Home Guard can support other authorities' task solution according to section 7 of the Defence Act and that the Emergency Response Board can provide support according to section 8 of the Emergency Response Act. The operational effort under the direction of the National Police is coordinated in the national operational staff, and I believe that the defence, Emergency Agency and Home Guard staff have voluntarily provided the requested support to the health and food authorities in a difficult situation for Denmark and under great pressure of time. The questions in question do not fall within my remit. The defense has supported under section 7 of the Defence Act and the Emergency Response Board under section 8 of the Emergency Response Act, so I do not recognize that there should have been no legal basis for what I am responsible for as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170446	Honestly, Secretary of Defense, I'm asking when the Secretary of Defense was told that the PM's order was illegal. It's not a super-complex question. I also ask how the Secretary of Defense was told, and then the Secretary of Defense reads from a piece of paper instead. So let me ask another question: of course I would like to ask these questions in writing: On Facebook, on November 11th, 4 days after the government acknowledged that the PM's order was illegal, you can see a video with General Lollesgaard, head of the army, saying that the army is in operation mink-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k-k. How can this even happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170534	I'm gonna have to ask you to wait until I let you. It has nothing to do with me, it has nothing to do with you standing up here being authority. This is simply because those who sit out in the sound room, compared to putting names on television broadcasts, need that change constantly via the chair. That is why I have to intervene every time, so to speak, it is Mr. Marcus Knuth, it's the minister, and now it's the minister. That is why we need to get around the President before we take the floor in the Chamber. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170613	But I can repeat my answer. What is my responsibility is to ensure that there is a legal basis for the tasks to which the defence has been sent and, moreover, also the Emergency Response Board. There has been, and there is. It's Section 7 of the Defense Act, it's Section 8. Therefore, the activities in which the defence has participated, primarily counting and disposal, are provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170640	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170644	Thank you very much. Will the Minister not conclude by answering the question I asked as the first question: who, according to the Minister, bears the highest responsibility? Explained in another way: Who has the highest responsibility for defence in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170702	The operational responsibility is, of course, the responsibility of the Chief of Defense. Of course, I have political responsibility. That is also why I have been very concerned that there should of course be a legal basis for defence activities. It's there, and it was there. It's Section 7 of the Defense Act, it's Section 8. This has been the case throughout the Corona crisis and also in relation to helping mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170729	Thanks to the Secretary of Defense. Before we move on to the next question, I should like to inform you that those of Mr Beazley's colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities who have spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities have been asked to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Group of the European People's No. S 417 and S 419) are deleted from today's agenda. Then we are going to Question 408 and it is for the Minister of Education and Research by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170758	Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170801	Thank you, and now we are going to something far more peaceful. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister's position on the local desire for a law education in Esbjerg?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170814	Thank you for the question for a very important discussion: what is of educational opportunities in different places in our country, even outside the largest cities, and I am very concerned about that, like the questioner. This means a great deal for growth and employment and settlement across the board in our country, and I therefore have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that Esbjerg and that part of our country continue to think about what is possible in their area for new opportunities for education and what they can bring into relation to such wishes. As the questioner knows very well, given the previous achievements of the questioner, the usual way into that process is, of course, a pre-qualification: you apply for it, and if it is assessed that there is a basis for an education, then you can get a yes, and then of course you get money to run the training on the basis of the tariff now set. I am aware that the wish that is then from Esbjerg in the specific case is beyond that. In other words, in addition to the idea of setting up and the tariff subsidy which now lies on the running of a law education, one would like to have more than 15 million. kr. Every year on top of the hat. In the past I have replied to both the mayor and others that it is not the usual way of doing so, and in this context, of course, I have taken note of the questioner and the wish of others to raise it in a financial legal context, and then the discussion has to be held there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170953	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125170954	Thank you very much for your answer, and it was actually quite encouraging and good to know that the Minister shares my views on ensuring a better education balance in Denmark, because that is basically what this is about. We can just see that when we look into the figures, there are parts and parts of Denmark that have the prospect of becoming poorer and poorer because young people seep away from the area. I personally believe that part of the answer to this is to ensure that further education is possible, including in university education. When you look into what is then on the map, yes, we can see that there is actually a concrete request from Esbjerg. There is a demand in the labour market. Over recent years, with the previous government in the lead, we have relocated a number of state jobs and, if we are to ensure that it is still a success, that academic state jobs have also been relocated from the metropolitan area and to other parts of the country, then we also need to follow up on the possibility of access to higher education. I am very pleased that the Minister has emphasized here that she has taken note of the fact that a concrete proposal to support, including financially, a law education in Esbjerg has been included in the Left's draft budget. So I have to tell the Minister that nice words don't do it alone. Action is also needed. Now, of course, I asked the Minister's position very precisely, which is why I venture to ask how one can expect the Minister to put himself on the Left Finance Bill on financial support for a law education in Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171158	But the analysis itself is quite important to have in place in this context, and the questioner is a little bit about it. There is almost a natural force of centralisation, so that if we do not politically move in the other direction and keep an eye on the importance of maintaining a Denmark in balance, it will seep towards the larger cities. At the same time, we see a demographic development in which the generation of young people in the years to come will be reduced, and that means that if we are just to maintain what we have today, it will require effort, and that is why I am already doing some of that. I have had a great deal of focus on welfare education, also so that we can match that we, for example. have nurses and doctors and educators throughout the country, but of course the broader perspective is also important. I will continue to insist that it is of course important that we go through the usual paths, that is to say, that we apply for an education approved, and then there is an analysis in a pre-qualification process, where we look at whether there is sustainability in that education, whether there is a demand for it, and whether there is both a student base and the labour market for it, and that analysis is of course important. But I share the political discussion and analysis of the importance of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171323	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171325	After all, I asked about the Minister's position on the Left's draft Finance Bill, but it was perhaps equally optimistic to imagine that a concrete answer could be given to this at the end of the afternoon on a Wednesday in the Parliamentary Assembly. So we'll get back to that. But I just have to point out to the Minister that the analyses have been made, and the Minister himself refers to the most important overall analysis, namely that there is a prospect that there will be fewer and fewer young people in parts of the country, because they automatically seep to the large metropolis, and what we can do by the Folketing and the government is precisely to ensure that we do not seep from a local area because of the lack of training. Therefore it is just so important and it is a future assurance of a Denmark in better balance, both so figuratively speaking, but not least when it comes to education. I would therefore just like to appeal strongly to the Minister not only to say that there is a need for new analyses, but also to refer to the fact that action is actually needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171444	But the analysis process to which I refer is precisely the pre-qualification process, where we have people sitting and doing those analyses. When there is a specific application for specific training somewhere in the country, we have people who are experts in looking down on what, for example, we have. sustainability is of this education, and it doesn't happen until you seek it. No one from Esbjerg has sought and therefore that process is not in progress, and therefore it is getting a little bit behind. I would put it this way, also in the light of the falling adolescences, that there is almost only one thing worse than not opening anything, and that is opening something that closes again, and then contributing to such a sense of settlement. Therefore, those basic analyses are important, both in terms of whether there are enough students, but also whether there is a labour market and whether that is what is needed locally. And of course I listen to the local forces, which is why it is also a relevant discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171539	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171540	But there is if you look at what the labour market is looking for, it is precisely legal competences. We moved the National Security Agency, the Danish Energy Agency years ago. Most recently, tax administration has arrived at Ribe, and now there is a new tax centre in Esbjerg. There are large jobs, which are also dependent on legal competences. The Professional House is based in Esbjerg. So there is a huge demand for lawyers in the area. So the Minister doesn't have to spend a lot of resources doing that kind of analysis because they're done and they're available. Sometimes it is also a question of making political decisions. I dared when I was in the minister's chair. Despite all sorts of warnings, I decided to set up an engineering degree in Kalundborg. We, the former government, decided to place superstructure on the medical education in Esbjerg. All this has been subject to a political decision. And I am sorry that the Minister is covering himself under the need for analysis. There is a need for political action, and I miss it with the Minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171700-2	Actually, that's not what I said either. It was not, in fact, a question of keeping it so much in a stretched arm that I say that I do not trust the local assessment, and it just has to go over, but I must nevertheless maintain, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs did when she sat in my chair as minister, that we have a pre-qualification process in which everyone is welcome to apply. That is to say, if you believe in law education locally in Esbjerg, then you have to apply, and what stands out is that they do not believe that they can run it, as I read the inquiries, within the financial framework that has now been politically decided that a law education should have. It will then be a financial law discussion, which is why it is also quite relevant to what the questioner refers to, but the basic analysis of education across the country and the importance of that we have in common.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171750	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and to the Minister for Education and Research, which we are still holding on to, for now it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, who has Question No. 427.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171802	Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171804	I dare also promise that we will talk much more about the law education in Esbjerg. But first there is my question: how does the Minister think that the new children's research should strengthen the basic skills of the educators, and how will the Minister ensure that the research is curious about the interaction of the educators with the children and does not try to formalise professionalism and thereby deprive the educators of their professional judgement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125171830	I have looked forward to the questioner and I had to discuss educational research this afternoon. It is about knowing the questioner as extremely committed to constantly developing the professional field, constantly gaining new knowledge and also constantly keeping up what we do in our day care institutions with the children's vision that is constantly evolving. For example: I know the questioner as someone who is very concerned that the child has a right in itself to exist and of the value of free play. And the more knowledge we have in this field, and the more we keep following with time in the discussions • in relation to what it is actually for some new knowledge, we get the more application-oriented it becomes in relation to the individual educator out there or the individual teacher in the pedagogic education. That's why this is a subject that needs to be developed all the time. We must insist on that professionalism: that everyone can't just take care of children. In fact, it does matter that the pedagogical professionalism is strong and is present. But if we are to be able to develop it, and hence also the educational development and practice out there, then we also need research. And research doesn't have to be anything up in an ivory tower; on the contrary, research should be completely out there in the puddle of water, where you jump and develop children, create a secure environment and actually dare give the individual child the confidence to be able to develop. And that's where we need research. That means, of course, that what the questioner is asking is that it should actually be something that can be used is the whole essence of the money that has now been dropped off. And therefore it must also be done in very close connection with exactly the people who have to do with professionalism out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172018	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172020	Thank you for that answer. I have also been very pleased because for many years we have been talking a lot about how important it is for us to have research in the area of children. Now we are doing it, and I am just so happy about it. That is why it is also important that we spend the money properly. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. So, how does the Minister imagine that we are making a model in which it will actually be research into puddles, that is, research that can play a part in our education?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172054	Thank you. It is not an easy task, but it is important. And that is why it is something where we really need to get our noses on the track, because now the money is set off and thanks for the author's party's support for that very thing. It was very crucial to me as a minister that part of the money we spend on research next year and in the years after, is devoted to a fairly large pool of money to research in our smallest children and in the pedagogical practice. It is clear that the money has value only if it has a form in which it has relevance to those who actually need it. And that means that if it becomes research far from reality, then it is probably of high quality and research excellence, but it can be put up on the top shelf from the start, because it is not the case for the people who actually have to do with our children. And precisely in the educational field, it is a gap that is very difficult to close, but we must then make an extra effort in practice to make it both high-quality research and a research that can be used out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172158	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172159	How do we do that? In other words, how do we ensure that the child research we are now getting will actually be in the interaction between educators and children, which is therefore relevant in the work of educators?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172212	We do, among other things. Knows that those who need it are involved in the work. We do, among other things. know that it is the educational professionalism that is present in the local where the money is to be distributed and that the research projects for which money is to be provided are in close interaction between academic environments and pedagogical practice. Because it is only when we unite the two worlds that we actually get something that is both high-quality research, but also relevant. This is in conjunction with what we do, by the way. We need to develop educating education, we need to provide a better framework for adults working in this field out there, and at the same time we need to provide them with an even greater and solid knowledge base to benefit our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172258	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172259	I think that all sounds very good, and I look forward to working on that. So just here in the end: what should the research not be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172310	It is important to me that research is not decoupled from reality. There are some fields where it is fine to do, i.e. where it is simply the higher air layers that have a value. With precisely children's research, it is the other thing we need to do, and therefore it is also very important that it is the teaching staff from everyday life who have to go far into these projects, or in a different way said that the researchers have to go all the way out there, where they lighten flying suits and blow on their knees. It is only there that we also get the value of the very specific educational professionalism into our research so that it can come back and make us even more skilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172400	That concludes the question. Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod and to the Minister for Education and Research. The Minister for Industry is present, but not the questioner. This may be because the questioner has not been fully aware of the fact that one of the two questions addressed to the Minister for Industry has been removed, as is the case with the question to the Minister for the Environment. So if we can hold the Minister of Business for 10 minutes, we can jump to Question No. S 420 to the Minister for Culture by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, because I can see that both the Minister for Culture and Mrs Anni Matthiesen are present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172511	Are the two combatants ready? Then I say here to Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172519	I have asked a question: does the Minister believe that there is a connection between the Corona restrictions when professional musicians can hold major concerts if all the listeners sit down, while an amateur orchestra such as the Vejen Garden can only hold a Christmas concert if they play with their backs to the audience?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172541	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I should like to say that it is true that up to 500 people are allowed to be present for activities, events and events whose customers, visitors or participants are essentially seated on fixed pitches heading towards a stage, cinema screen, track or the like. Those who do not do this are subject to a ban on being more than ten people, but that does not mean that if the executives do the same, it is quite the same. However, there is a general exemption for general stay and the movement at a workplace which is a natural or necessary part of the performance of the work in question. In other words, there can also be more than ten people present. So if it's a professional artist, choir, orchestra, it's also over ten. So in other words, there may well be more than ten performers who are not essentially seated in fixed places heading towards a stage or the like for a concert if the performers are present in connection with a working relationship, but that is only for jobs in general. And that was just for the example of the Road Garden. Sorry, it got a little long, but there are no special restrictions or recommendations that you should sit down with your back to the audience. There is nothing we would rather do than open up culture and thus enjoy the cultural experiences again, but unfortunately we are faced with a situation where we have to limit the larger assemblies and physical contact with others, and therefore there is such coherence in the Corona restrictions, since they all aim to remind us that we must be careful of being too many together and that we must keep our distance. Unfortunately, in order for us to keep our jobs going and our education going, this means that we also have to put restrictions on our cultural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172738	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172739	Thank you. There are just some things that I find contradictory, and I also know those from the Vejen Garden, who are now listening here, think so. Well, they have a lot of Christmas concerts both outdoors and indoors, and even if they hold 2 meters away and look after each other etc., they are not allowed to complete their Christmas concerts anyway. And I'm thinking, for example, was it... Not an idea to look at reducing the number, so there weren't so many in the room? Because I think the Road Garden is ready to say: if we just get to play, then it's okay that there, for example. There must be only 200 listeners, so there may even be fewer present than there are at the professional orchestras. Could this be an opportunity that the Minister of Culture would try to look at, because that would give these amateur orchestras the opportunity to also hold Christmas concerts?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172848	Thank you very much. In fact, in the case of concerts, the executives are also spoken to for the maximum of 500, so in this way the logic presented by the author is included in the Corona restrictions. But we have had to make the difficult, difficult balance of things that has happened if we wanted to keep the professional cultural life going as much as possible and thus also support the profession, it is too real, very many people; that is what they live on, and they are not booked as much as they usually do. So if we were to make sure that there was room for it, well then we had to ask all of us who are doing it as a persistent hobby and something that brings us and many people joy, to say: we have to wait on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172931	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125172932	So because this is an amateur orchestra, they get no, but if they'd been professional, they'd be allowed to. These have, among other things. made contracts in many places in the cities where they actually had to play some Christmas music in the square out in the open, where people just walk by, and they shouldn't, because it's an amateur orchestra. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173003	It is well understood that this is the distinction we have had to make, precisely in order to hold hands in a profession which is otherwise heavily influenced by these corona restrictions. It hurts a minister of culture, it hurts the government, just as I hear it does the questioner. I would encourage them to try to split up and I know that there are many orchestras that do and that there are many orchestras that can also be done because we need the joy of playing together as well as being able to experience the music.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173030	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173031	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to call on the Minister of Culture to try to think in terms of solutions. Because I simply do not think that in Jutland, where you do not have so many professional orchestras, you can understand that you cannot be allowed to hear Christmas music. There are many places in the cities around me where it has been part of the Christmas tradition year after year, and I can't understand that you can't just turn down the number, or for that matter, if you just keep 2 or 3 meters away, that it can be okay if you stand out in the open. So I would just like to end here by appealing to the Minister of Culture to try to look at this one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173111	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173112	Thank you. Well, we keep looking at it all the time. In fact, one of the things I am most happy about is that we have made an exception that ensures that our children and young people are so that we keep the food chain going, our association life still can be up to 50 people together. So I also hope that all of you who had to sit out there and watch, know that as soon as we can, we will open. But right now it is important that we, as adults together, keep the focus on the fact that we can give up things so that our children can still be together more, so that we keep the virus under control, and so that we return to no longer having to have all these restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173151	Thank you. We will continue with the next question, and that is the last of the Minister for Culture, and it is still gone by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173156	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173159	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister intend to invite cultural players to dialogue on how to ensure more tailor-made and coherent corona restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173211-2	Thank you very much. I look very much forward to us again starting to focus on how we can open up society and thus also cultural life again. Right now, unfortunately, we are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic, which is why it is not time for reopening. The situation is basically different from this summer, both in Denmark, but especially in the countries around us. There we see the seriousness and importance of sticking to the restrictions that are currently keeping us on course. That is why it is no wonder that the restrictions today are largely as we knew them a few months ago. It is hard and something that affects very many people's lives, and so I would also like to assure you that as soon as it is certain, I will be the very first to enter into the dialogue that the questioner is asking for, with the actors, about how we will again open up the cultural, sports and association life gradually, but securely up to the pleasure of both the players and all those who benefit from the Danish cultural life. Last but not least, I would just like to say that we are in continuous dialogue with the cultural players. Sectoral partnerships have been set up which both ask questions, clarify and inform us in the event that there are new restrictions and where we also have the dialogue on an ongoing basis. You just have to be very careful right now because the health authorities' clear recommendation that there is a great risk of spreading the corona virus is that it is about how many people we are gathered together, how close and how active we are. And that is why there is no difference between the spread of viruses in the cultural field in relation to other areas of society, and that is why it is also the same restrictions that apply ■ it just hits very hard because cultural life lives by bringing people together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173403	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173404	Thank you. I think we all agree that we must be careful of each other, that we must keep our distance and that we must open slowly and so on, and we are all looking forward to being able to open fully again. But there are just some places where there are also some restrictions that I think are contradictory and that do not give common sense. And what I can feel is that I too think the Minister might agree with me that if there is something that is contradictory and that you cannot somehow see the meaning of, then you also lose confidence in those restrictions. And I have to say in relation to, among other things. the example I mentioned earlier with the Vejen Garden, that there I have talked to several, and it is grown men who simply cannot understand that if they stand outside and play and they keep their distance and they spritt and they follow all the guidelines, they cannot be allowed to stand and play Christmas music somewhere in a square in Esbjerg. Can the Minister not see that it might already be possible to enter into dialogue with a view to adapting to the restrictions, so that they also make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173511	I do not think that we can start to open up to relax the restrictions when we are in the middle of another wave. And now I have heard the questioner and other representatives from the author's party say several times: we all agree with the recommendations of the health authorities, but... I just have to say that there is nothing but there is nothing but I say that, especially as Minister of Culture, because there are so many people who are just being affected by their lives and living these restrictions. What gives our lives juice and power we can no longer do. And if we can do something about whichever guard we are a member of to get back to everyday life as soon as possible, then there's nothing but.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173555	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173556	However, I hope that we can agree, Minister, that it is more justifiable to run outdoor events than indoor exposures.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173609	This is something we are discussing very much in the cultural circle, especially in the context of sporting events. It is true, however, that there has been much discussion about the difference between indoors and outdoors. I also asked a lot about this, but the clear recommendation of the health authorities is that it is about reducing the number of people and how many people we are gathered together. That is why there are basically three figures that govern many things in our societies, including cultural life: these are the 10 as a limitation for adults, the 50 as a limitation for children and young people under the age of 21 and the 500 as a limitation if you sit down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173643	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen with her final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173644	I have to say that, of course, I had hoped that the Minister for Culture would be prepared to try to go back and see if there could be any possibility of adjusting some things. And I hear that's hard to get through to the minister here tonight. I think that is a pity, because I think we all want to follow the restrictions. But I am also sorry if you do not want to be prepared to look at whether there are any of these restrictions that simply make no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173718-2	But that's not what I said either. I said: at the moment when it is possible, I would like to go in and relax and open up and allow for even more cultural activities. There is just not a situation with the virus we have right now that allows for anything but that we hold fast and hold back and are fewer people together. And it is important to me that we keep the cultural life going as much as possible. The prerequisite for this is that we adults give up a little, are a little more flexible, do things in a different way, and that we are fewer people together.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173753	Then we would like to thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen and the Minister for Culture. The question is over. Then we go back to item 21 of the agenda and there are questions to Mrs Bjerre, the Minister for Industry, and we ask him. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173806	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173808	Will the government take special initiatives to create growth in North Jutland as a result of decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125173816	Yes, we will. And I would like to start by saying that the North Jutlanders have made a huge effort to contain the Coronas mite, and therefore it was also very gratifying that we were able to relax the North Jutland restrictions more quickly than we had expected. There are many Danish companies that are still affected by the corona outbreak, and in particular the North Jutland business community has been hard hit. That is why I am pleased that on 20 November a broad political agreement was reached to ensure compensation for the professional, cultural and sporting life of Northern Jutland. The social partners have also concluded a tripartite agreement with the government on wage compensation on 7 November, where it will be possible to obtain local wage compensation which will be relevant to the northern Jutland companies, and a special compensation for commuting wages will be introduced for those employees in North Jutland who, as we remember, could not get to work because of the strong call not to cross municipal boundaries. We all know that it may require a restart phase to get started again for companies that have been completely closed and therefore forced-closed companies can be compensated for fixed costs up to one month after the ban has been lifted. And then the government will set up a number of regional growth teams; we will do so throughout the country, but we will also do so in North Jutland. The regional growth team in North Jutland must make recommendations on how best to invest in local North Jutland business forces so that they can create growth and jobs throughout the lovely part of the country. So in this way initiatives have been set up to promote growth specifically in North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174000	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174001	Thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that the Minister responds so clearly to the fact that something will be done to create growth in North Jutland. Perhaps I should have asked what is the fact that the whole mink industry, which employs 6,000 people, has been put to death, many of them in North Jutland. North Jutland is a region that has already been challenged in many municipalities in relation to settlement. We cannot afford to lose jobs too, which is why it is important to know what we are going to do to restore those jobs. Specifically in relation to decommissioning, I would like to say that this also has consequences in the longer term. It has affected 16,000 companies and 106,000 employees. And yes, there have been arrangements for compensation, but that is not done with it, because you do not replace one for one. This has created uncertainty for many customers. Do you dare to place orders in North Jutland? There is a fear that North Jutland may be shut down again. North Jutland has been made a dangerous place by the government. And the same with tourists. German guests have cancelled their holidays for Christmas because the government has declared North Jutland a dangerous place. This comes on top of the fact that North Jutland is already a place where it is difficult to be a businessman. We look into brexit, which will hit the fishing industry in North Jutland hard, which represents a large part of the business community in North Jutland. We have a bad infrastructure for North Jutland. And now the killing of the mink industry came on top of a shutdown that has consequences beyond these two weeks, and where you're not being replaced by one. That is why I think it is appropriate to ask: will a special effort be made and I am not talking about compensation, as the Minister has explained, but I am talking about a special effort to restore jobs, to create growth in North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174144	For that too, the answer is still gone. Yes. But I just have to arrest a premise in the questioner's question. It must be for the questioner's own account that North Jutland should be a dangerous place. The government has identified a particular challenge in Northern Jutland, and on the basis of recommendations from the authorities, a number of restrictions have been imposed where the Northern Jutlanders have just delivered. And they have delivered in a way where the restrictions could be lifted early, and that is very good. But, of course, it has not come without cost. That is why compensation must be made, but new growth measures must also be made for North Jutland, and that is where the regional growth team makes good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174223	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174224	I didn't call North Jutland a dangerous place. I live in North Jutland and am really, really happy about it. But the problem is that the government has said that North Jutland could be the new Wuhan, and closed down North Jutland, which has meant that companies outside North Jutland and foreign companies are afraid to place orders with North Jutland companies. I have concrete examples of this, that is to say, that people are afraid to place orders with northern Jutland companies, because North Jutland is now closing down again? Is North Jutland a dangerous place? As the government just said at that press conference. So I would like to ask: what will the government do to restore that security around North Jutland? Because North Jutland is not a dangerous place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174305	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174306	North Jutland is not a dangerous place, and therefore orders can be placed with North Jutland companies. This can still be done away with, and it is only sensible to do so if you have good experiences with North Jutland. So you gotta keep doing that. Then it is true that this has, of course, had some costs and that something has to be corrected again. I am very pleased that the agreement we made together, and where the Left also took part, means that, in addition to compensation, we can also make a particularly targeted effort to get tourism and the experience economy in North Jutland back on track. There are dedicated resources to independently raise the profession and thus the jobs that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174348	Then it's the enquirer, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174351	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Honestly, I don't think it's impressive. It's a nice deal that's made. We in the Left would like to recognise the government for it, but there is not much growth and many jobs in it, Minister of Industry. The government has made a decision to close down the mink business. It costs North Jutland hundreds, perhaps thousands of jobs, and is a shutdown, as the government has decided on the government's recommendation.• Probably an overreaction, we have discussed this with the Minister of Health earlier today. At least very quickly opened up, but there are some economic and human costs for which the government owes it to compensate North Jutland. That is why, frankly, I do not think it is fair for the Minister of Industry to point to the agreement that has been reached and which is about compensation. After all, it is not an agreement that creates growth. That is why I would like to ask again: will the government take special initiatives to create growth in North Jutland as a result of the closure and killing of the mink industry? What will the Minister of Business and Government do for North Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174454	If the Chairman of the Left had listened a little after the first replies, he would have heard that I was actually behind that agreement and I think it has become good as the Left is also in it. And there's compensation, and that's good, because that's gotta be in this situation. Then I say today that the government intends to set up regional growth teams, including one with a special focus on how we can get growth going in the North Jutland area. I can only make Marie Bjerre's words my own in relation to the challenges of brexit and with settlement and all the challenges we jointly all know here from the North Jutland area. So, of course, a special effort needs to be made. The government is prepared to do so, which is why the government is taking initiatives. But I also think that we share it would be a great surprise if we did not do the idea that it is wise to anchor it with insight into it here: business people, people with insight into the regional labour market. And that is why the growth team approach is the right one to apply here. And that is also what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174557	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174558	Thank you for that answer. But the Minister of Business also says: we also make the growth teams in other parts of the country. And that's why I'm gonna end up sitting back with the question. Now North Jutland has been shut down. North Jutland is particularly affected by the government's decision to kill all minks and to destroy hundreds, perhaps thousands of jobs. And is the answer then, government, that in addition to the compensation agreement that has been made and which is a fine little deal then will not do anything special for North Jutland? Yeah, you want to make a growth team, but that's what you want to do in other parts of the country too. And there I just think that the Minister of Industry should consider: With the situation in which you have helped to bring Northern Jutland in, do you not owe the Northern Jutlanders something special for generating growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174635	There is no doubt that when you make growth teams in the various regions, they will work on the basis of the question: what is the background curtain in the region for which I am a growth team? And there is no reason to hide the fact that North Jutland is in a special situation because it has been a particularly challenging time, which the North Jutlanders have handled completely for ug with ticks and snakes. Well, it's impressive what's been delivered. But, of course, it does not take away the cost, which is why the background curtain for the North Jutland growth team will of course be different from that in other parts of the country. I take this as a whole and it will then also be reflected in the initiatives that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174714	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Bjerre, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174717	In fact, I do not think the Minister is answering my colleague's question about growth teams, because they are in the whole country. The minister says that yes, it is a special situation that North Jutland is in and that it is a particularly unfortunate backdrop that you have in North Jutland. But is there a special effort? So, is this growth team in North Jutland given more priority than in the other regions? You want to do something extra for this growth team? Would you like to add some extra funds? There's nothing special the government wants to do about what I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174748	In addition to the fact that the government is actually launching an initiative where North Jutland will be seen and will be heard and be present at the table, in relation to what concrete initiatives should be taken, and we have then made the agreement next to where we strengthen tourism and booster it and restart it, then there is just to say that the government here is taking initiatives, has initiatives. I haven't heard the same thing from the Left yet, except that it's wanted. I think it is right to create growth teams for the whole country on the basis of the corona situation. But it goes without saying that North Jutland is in a particularly hard-hit situation, and it must also be reflected in the growth team work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174827	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Industry, thank you to Mrs Bjerre, and thank you to the co-author, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20201125174836	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 26 November 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
