ParlaMint-DK_20200123100017	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 98 (Law prohibiting the supply of paperwork etc.) for examination at an educational establishment of the Ministry of Children and Education or the Ministry of Education and Research). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to remove the recognition of Muslim religions in Denmark). Marie Krarup (DF) and Pernille Bendixen (DF): Request no. F 35 (What can the Minister say about the status of social media in Denmark as media and private companies and the consequences for the Danes' freedom of expression in relation to possible exclusion from social media?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100053	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100114	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100133	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100200	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100216	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 30 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100246	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100301	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 110 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100328	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100344	Thank you. Is there any sound on now? That is a good thing, because it should not be the case that they could not hear what I said, even though there may be some who think it might be quite fine that it is possible. In the view of the Danish People's Party, this draft law, L 85, which restores the previous legislation on the right to income benefits, is another knee-jerk in the face of a weakening of strict foreign policy. After all, we have understood the government and the Prime Minister that there should be a strict policy on foreigners. Nevertheless, one of the first things to do is to reduce the policy on foreigners by removing the income requirement that was involved in earning a daily allowance. And that means that instead of the transitional period, where it starts with 5 years out of 12 years, then 6 years out of 12 years and 7 years out of 12 years, which one must have been in Denmark to get the right to full daily allowance and the right to earn unemployment benefit, then goes back to being just one year in Denmark. And that means that foreigners who come to Denmark are entitled to Danish unemployment benefits without having given the very large amount to the Danish welfare community. It is only one year that they may have been on the labour market and thus have not given it a great deal, but then they are entitled to benefit. It has been said that it is because so many Danes were affected, and then the figures show that 80%. of those covered by these rules are in fact foreigners. It is not Danes, and most Danes who come home are fairly fast at work again. And it must also be said that a great many of the Danes who have been travelling out for many years and coming home and having to have a daily allowance have not paid taxes in Denmark in those years either. In the Danish People's Party we think it is reasonable that you should earn a daily allowance and have provided something to Danish society first. After all, we have also been working on the need to regulate the daily allowance in the European Union, and there will be a motion for a resolution on this next month in which we will have to deal with it again. However, as things stand now, we can only see that it is another gesture by the government towards foreigners that the policy of foreigners is being relaxed once again. And so the question is: when will social democracy stop relaxing foreign policy, the tight immigration policy that they themselves have said they stand for? We in the Danish People's Party do not understand that we should expose Denmark to an even more relaxed immigration policy. That is certainly not what was promised in the election campaign by the Prime Minister, but that is what is happening again. And then you could say: well, it is not a foreign policy, it is an employment policy. Yeah, well, 80 percent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter. If it were the case that some special rules could have been drawn up which only applied to Danish citizens, that was a completely different matter. We're not supposed to. But 80%. of those who benefit from these relaxations are foreigners, and we in the Danish People's Party cannot do that. Then I must say that we support the proposal from the New Citizens' Party for a petition in relation to the Constitution. But the Danish People's Party says no to this proposal, as it is devastating for the Danish welfare society and is only for the benefit of foreigners who have come to Denmark and can use the Danish welfare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100744	There are a few brief comments. First it's Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100759	Thank you. Just for the record: the rapporteur himself says that this is not a foreign policy, it is an employment policy, and that is absolutely right. It is not a proposal that means that one year's stay in Denmark, where you are in work, means that you also have residence requirements per automatic. It is a proposal that, when you have had one year of full-time employment and at the same time been a member of an unemployment insurance fund, you are entitled to unemployment benefit on an equal footing with others on the Danish labour market. Is it not just to tighten it up a little to claim that this is a tightening of foreign policy and not just to create equal rights in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100838	But now I did not say that it was employment policy. I said that the government said it was employment policy. According to the Danish People's Party's dictionary, this is alien politics, as it is most beneficial to foreigners. And this bill isn't about tightening up foreign policy either. It is a relaxation of the foreign policy that the government and the support parties are doing here. It's not a tightening up. The foreign policy is being relaxed once again, and we can only see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100906	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100907	However, the fact was that when the previous government introduced this rule, it actually meant that people who had been in work and had earned the right to cash benefits and paid for an unemployment fund for several years suddenly from one day to the next had no value whatsoever in the insurance to which they had paid. It was just removed over a night. I think it was right that we should consider saying that this should be an equal right, and this is just equality in the labour market and nothing else at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123100938	Now it wasn't the case that it was removed over a night. Let us just remember that there is a transitional arrangement in the first place. If you have been 5 years out of the last 12 years in Denmark, you are entitled to benefit, and also 6 years and 7 years out of the last 12 years. So it wasn't just over a night, and you have to remember that if someone has been abroad for 20 years and paid for an unemployment fund, they haven't paid for the Danish welfare system in that time. They may have paid to an unemployment fund, but they have not paid taxes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101007	Then it's mr. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101009	When the Berlin Wall was built, Erich Honecker said: it is simply because we must ensure that people do not enter our country. But we do know who the Berlin Wall went beyond. It was all the people who wanted to get out, maybe not forever, but for a while. In the end, people were locked up, and that is actually what the residence requirement is doing. It is, in fact, a Berlin Wall in the labour market, which was created because it affects the people who go abroad and work for a while. They are the ones who are actually being punished by this. Has it never worried the Danish People's Party that the Berlin Wall effect has in fact been the most epoch-making in the law passed at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101057	I think it is one of the worst comparisons ever made here. To compare the Berlin Wall with the income requirement for daily allowances, I do not think it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101112	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101113	No, I know that the Danish People's Party doesn't think so, and that's because the Danish People's Party loves to make itself the great cultural champion and champion of Danish values, is really historyless in its politics. What is the truth is that what we are abolishing here is the conspiracy. It's the cons that force people to stay in the same country. Although, as Mrs Kirsten Andersen says, you have paid throughout your life for unemployment insurance, unemployment insurance and something like that, if you work in another country for a certain period, you have just lost all the insurance you have paid for. It's cons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101150	You have to remember that there are a great many exceptions in this respect, because if you are sent out by a Danish company to work abroad, you are not covered by this law, then you have still withdrawn your membership of the fund. If you are posted and work as a professor somewhere, you still have the opportunity to have an insurance fund membership. And you can be abroad for 5 years and then come back when it is fully phased, and then you can still get away with cash benefits. I don't think it's cons. And yes, the Danish People's Party is fighting for Danish values. It may be more than what the Radicals are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101221	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101223	The rapporteur said that in DF's dictionary, these are alien straits. Now I haven't read the entire DF's dictionary, and I don't know if you're still writing such things with Gothic letters, but that's a bit of an old-fashioned view. We have to recognise that the workforce is moving. We have to recognise that good Danish craftsmen, if they are needed, also go to both Germany and Sweden and for that matter to Africa, if it is to be and they get something out of it themselves, but I also think that they are doing Denmark, which DF very much wants to talk about, a service by just getting out and getting inspiration. Try to think about how poor and one-track a society we would be if the navels and all sorts of others throughout history had not gone out into the world. Surely we should be happy about that, and we should not be obstructing it. I think that the Danish People's Party must modernise both their language and their dictionary slightly and say that here is an opportunity for us to equate workers in the labour market and that it is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101328	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101329	Now I don't want to say that L 85 is an alien tightening. The law we made under the previous government was an alien tightening, and this must be an alien facilitation when approx. 80% of those who benefit from this come from third world countries and are immigrants and refugees. Then I should like to say a few words about the comparison that Mr. Christian Juhl made, with Danes who went to Norway and Sweden, that they didn't get hit by this because it's other rules that apply there. And I am sure that a great many of those who come from abroad and work in Denmark can make use of their own insurance system in the country they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101413	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101414	That does not change the fact that they are coming; it does not change the fact that we need workers in our country to be equal. We do not take into account whether they are of any other ethnic background or of Danish background; they are good Danish workers who make an effort in our society, and we should be happy about that, especially if we have a shortage of labour for a period of time. And I also believe that it inspires us to get other workers into our labour market. It is a good labour market policy, it is a sensible labour market policy and then it is a fair labour market policy. It is old-fashioned and I also think it is a political bias to have one's own dictionary and write Gothic letters and could not understand that this is labour market policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101456	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101458	No matter what, sir. Christian Juhl says, Dansk Folkeparti, that this is alien politics. It is a relief for foreigners because most of them it benefits are foreigners. 80% of those who benefit from it are citizens from third world countries who come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101515	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101517	Thank you for the floor. And thanks to DF for backing that New Citizens now activates §42 again. We are, of course, doing so because a majority in the Folketing has gone to the polls to stick to the strict immigration policy. Social democracy has gained power because they said they wanted to maintain the strict foreign policy. Now we have a relaxation in foreign policy, and then we can call it employment policy, but the fact is, as the rapporteur says, that more than 80%. of those who benefit from this are foreigners and it is not just foreigners, it is also third-country citizens. I am also pleased that the rapporteur puts in place the Radical Left when they try the Berlin Wall. It is usually the Nazi card that is being drawn. Now we've heard the Berlin Wall. I do not know what next time it will be, but apparently there are no limits to squeezing, so thank you to the DF and thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101608	I regard it more as a friendly comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101615	I just wanted to ask you if there should be another friendly comment. There isn't. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101618	I would like to say to the rapporteur: we now share the constituency. Up in Sæby there is a nicely large slaughterhouse with hundreds of third country citizens. This bill only affects third-country nationals and then Danes who have gone out to work and come home. What is the problem here is that all those from third countries working in a slaughterhouse pay quotas to the coffers. They will stop doing so if it had continued that they could not be provided with cash benefits. There is no shadow of a chance that they will become unemployed and have to draw on some cash benefits. They pay into the community for other Danes to receive daily allowances. That is the problem with the policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101659	Well, thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Yes, we share the constituency. And as far as I remember now, I don't want to be hung up on figures... most of the foreigners who work at the slaughterhouse have been here in Denmark for almost 5 years or more than 5 years, and therefore they can also get cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101719	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted has no further brief comments. The next person who has asked to speak as rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101732	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the bill we are discussing and are about to vote on is a draft law dealing with the unemployment benefit system in Denmark. There is a very crucial factor in having equal treatment for members of the cashiers, so that everyone has to meet the same conditions. There are yet a few not so good elements in that legislation, but it is the case that when you are a member of an insurance fund and you have worked for one year, you have earned the right to receive your insurance premium. Yes, the change that we are now removing was introduced over a night. And yes, it was not just introduced over a night, it was introduced retroactively, so the people who were members at that time but who did not meet the conditions lost their entitlement to cash benefits over one night. That is why it is very important that we remove today the provision that was introduced at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101832	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Then it's Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123101839	Thank you. New Citizens were put in the world to protect the Danes and protect Denmark, secure Denmark's future and to protect against a long-standing deeply misguided immigration policy that damages our country economically, culturally and legally. When other parties fail their fine words in the election campaign, the citizens out there can count on New Citizens. Before Christmas, the government adopted higher benefits for immigrants who do not contribute, but live on tax dollars, which politicians forced the Danes to hand in. It should have stopped, and it was an insult to all those out there who stand up and work hard every day. Now we are faced with another law which will mean that the Danes will have to go to their pockets to give as much as 148 million. kr. the year to mostly foreigners from third countries. This is a massive relaxation of foreign policy, which is in direct contradiction with what many parties went to elections on. One could only have made legislation that had solved the problem by introducing the healthy principle that we have in New Citizens, namely that public services are of course for Danish citizens, and foreigners who come here to work must of course support themselves and insure themselves against unemployment. But you don't want to. We would rather demand that the Danes have to pay once again for the lives of foreigners who come here. So dear Danes who are out there listening when the politicians and parties in here say there is no money for one thing and the other, it is quite simple because they are spending your money out there on something else. The proposal that was adopted before Christmas, and this, gives 300 million. kr. extra for foreigners • money that could have been spent on basic core welfare or on tax and tax relief, which will benefit the general Dane. We want to fight this in the New Citizens' Party. We will not just stand idly by while our beautiful country is destroyed by a failed immigration policy and some politicians and parties that seem to have neither the courage nor the will to do what is right for Denmark. That is why we are implementing Article 42 of the Constitution. This is not something we do with an easy mind, because the constitution is something we must safeguard, and we would have preferred to have been without it. But the Danes must be heard when politicians run away from their words and relax foreign policy. A great thank you to the Danish People's Party for standing with New Citizens in this matter on the Danish side. Once again, we will also make a heartfelt appeal to our fellow Members here in the Chamber: do what is right for Denmark, sign it and let the voice of the people be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102128	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102130	I don't even feel affected by that. Enhedslisten says where Enhedslisten stands. We have promised the electorate a policy, and we are pursuing it, whether it is labour market policy as in this case, or it is foreign policy. It's that easy. What New Citizens are set in the world for, I have no idea, but I hear that you want to discuss the Constitution, and I think that's a good idea. You also claim that you want to protect Denmark, but I think it is an embarrassing way to protect Denmark. Foreigners come to Denmark, do some honest work, and contrary to what New Citizens' rapporteur believes, yes, they assure themselves. That is what the rapporteur says: you must insure yourself and take care of yourself. Yes, that's what they're trying to do by taking out insurance on the labour market called a-box. It's to make sure. They pay faithfully to the year after year and then expect that they will get something out of it on an equal footing with the workers who are in the country. We should not discriminate against workers in a labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102233	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102234	I do not blind myself and believe that socialists or communists have any sense whatsoever of what it will mean to fight for a free and democratic society. We do that in New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102244	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102247	That's the way you can talk about it. How you do it, I don't know. I just said that the people who come to this country are doing what the New Citizens say: they are getting by and insuring themselves in the insurance system we now have. Or should we also have the unemployment benefit system and the unemployment insurance fund abolished, or what is New Citizens' will? Because that's what they do when they get to the country. They do just that, they follow the rapporteur's description of what to do. That is quite a strange argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102322	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102323	This was the second time that there was a comment and not a question to which I do not think the rapporteur has replied. That's so fair. We basically believe that foreigners coming to Denmark should insure themselves against unemployment. That's what I said in my speech. So maybe you should have listened a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102338	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102339	I should like to begin by regretting to Mrs Pernille Vermund that I am trying to take her to the prayers here. I have no idea that I can compete with her and New Citizens in mastering the art of proportionality distorting the debate. So I'm sorry I'm going to take her to the prayers here. But nevertheless, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, there is, after all, an element of such collectivist punishment in the law which exists today and which New Citizens would like to support. This is the kind of thing we know from some of the states that I do not expect New Citizens to be compared with, at least, the regimes that are there. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen talks about the Danes who work hard every day and go to work. What is it that in repealing the law here is an insult to them? And Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is not at all concerned with the Danes who work hard and work every day outside the country's borders and in fact do Denmark honour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102443	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102444	As I have said repeatedly, there were elements in the legislation that were made by the previous government, with which we did not agree. Because I have also received emails and messages from Danes who feel affected and squeezed into this. That is why we in New Citizens take the premise that, of course, Danish citizens are not affected by this, and then we care about the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102504	Then Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens, has asked to speak. Oh, my God. No, I can't say that. I'm sorry. I thought, "What have I done wrong now?).
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102516	When the Left portrays it here as if it is unsolidarous towards the people who come here to work and want to maintain the legislation, which, according to the Left, is apparently of benefit to Denmark, one is left with such a feeling that this must be a plus figure, that is, that the people who have been subject to this legislation contribute positively and that the economic consequences will be positive for Denmark if the legislation is changed. Can the rapporteur say anything about the economics of this? When we say that these people should not have the right to public benefits, such as unemployment benefits. It is because we can see that it is straining our society, both culturally and economically. Can the rapporteur say a little about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102614	Now I could be bold and say the same thing as I said to the other rapporteur: perhaps the questioner should have listened a little better after my rapporteur's speech. Because I actually mentioned that it was 300 million. kr., which the last two had actually cost, which could have been spent on basic core welfare. But let's take it another time. In addition, it is just a fact that the deeply failed non-western immigration costs Danish citizens well over 30 billion. kr., which could have been used much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102638	There was no follow-up question here. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102647	I have two questions. The first question is whether it is generally New Citizens' opinion that workers working in the same workplace should work under different conditions, i.e. that there should be an A team with some rights and a B team with some other rights. The second question is whether unemployment insurance is not an insurance policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102709	First of all, we have no problem distinguishing between Danish citizens and non-Danish citizens. We are completely open about that, and we have no problem with that. When we talk about an insurance fund, it is an insurance policy, yes, but it is an insurance policy involving the Danish state. If Enhedslisten wants to help pull the benefit system away from the politicians and away from the Danish tax dollars, then it is a classic insurance policy. But it is not right now, and when there are tax dollars involved in it, it is also the responsibility of politicians to take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102736	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102737	I think it is a little interesting, because if you have been at work, you know that those who have the greatest fear of being fired are those who accept what the employer says. In other words, if the scaffolding is smooth and the employer comes and says that you have to go up to that scaffolding, then those who have some security will, for example. In the case of unemployment insurance, say that the employer can run and jump, because you can kill yourself, whereas those who have no insurance go up on the scaffolding. Well, that's the way it is. So this is just an employer's proposal, right? I guess it's just New Citizens defending employers' interests by splitting the working class, isn't that what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102818	Well, now you're getting some trade union stuff into it, and you're welcome to do that. We have nothing against trade unions, we just think that the trade unions should learn that if anyone says no, they should accept it too. In addition, I may have to work to make myself a little clearer, because I said in my rapporteur's speech just now that we want to demand that people should insure themselves against unemployment when they arrive, and that is why the problem to which the rapporteur refers does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102840	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102842	Thank you. As a consequence, if you as a family have lived in Australia for six years and come back to Denmark and have to have a job, you will not be able to take out insurance in the cash register and thus be entitled to cash benefits if you are to become unemployed at some point. So it kind of hits everyone. I think that new citizens talk out of it when it is the case that there is no answer to what kind of insurance they are talking about. New citizens do not recognize that the money is an insurance scheme, which means that when I have had a job on the labour market, I have to do so, for example. not out and have cash benefits afterwards, but so can I use the benefit system and that it is also part of the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102930	Now I know I'm new in here and something like that, but I think I made it pretty clear. We do not believe that Danish citizens should be included in it, so you can easily travel to Australia and come back again. Now I've said it three times, and if someone asks me again, I'd like to say it one more time. And yes, the benefit system is an insurance policy, but it is an insurance policy that is involved in politics because Danish tax dollars are involved in it. That is why we must also deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102954	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123102955	Then I'll just say for the second time that they're Danish citizens. Danish citizens are covered by the bill which is now being amended. That's why we're changing it. We change it because it is dull that citizens have been discriminated against in relation to the insurance schemes that we now have in Denmark, which are part of the Danish model, and which help to ensure that we can be comfortable with the way we work. That also applies to saying "no', as Mr. Søren Søndergaard said a moment ago. So does New Citizens simply not recognize the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103026	It's funny. I heard the same premise from the Social Democratic Party last time, and now I hear it from the SF. But if there is any majority in favour of freeing Danish citizens, we will be happy to send that proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly, and we will see what the SF votes for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103041	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103051	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 59 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against voting 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103119	We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. We are still in the process of voting. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103139	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103159	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103211	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister. We will take a short break before we start first readings so that those who do not want to be in the Parliament can leave it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103342	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123103418	Thank you. Today, we are working together on two motions for resolutions on equal treatment of language requirements and qualifications between doctors who are trained in the European Union and doctors who are trained in third countries, in other words countries that are not members of the European Union. These are two motions for resolutions which have previously been dealt with in the Danish Parliament by spring 2019 and which have lapsed due to the announcement of the election. I would like to acknowledge that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti have taken up the subject again. On the part of the government, we fully agree with the intention behind the motions for resolutions tabled, namely that we must ensure a high level of patient safety in Denmark, regardless of whether the treatment is carried out by health professionals who are trained in this country or healthcare professionals who are trained outside Denmark. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that we, as patients, be comfortable with the staff who meet us when we need treatment. Therefore, there should be no doubt that foreign doctors must both be professionally skilled and have the linguistic skills necessary to ensure that the treatment can be carried out in a fully sound manner. I think we can all agree on that too. It is the case that, in the context of authorization, we distinguish between EU doctors and what is called third country doctors, in other words doctors who are trained in a country outside the European Union. Third country doctors are subject to a set of rules which imposes more direct requirements on the applicant than those for EU doctors. In order to obtain Danish authorization, third country doctors must pass a test in Danish 3 • it is three tests • with grades 7, 7 and 10. They must also pass a written and oral examination and carry out an evaluation in a hospital department or in general practice. We do not make similar demands on EU doctors, and the reason for this must be found in the common European rules that we have adopted in the European Union. After all, Denmark is a member of the European Union and, as a member, we have committed ourselves to implementing the provisions of the EU Recognition Directive. In concrete terms, this means that Denmark is obliged to automatically recognise the evidence of formal qualifications received by EU doctors, if and that is what is central to them, in accordance with the minimum requirements that we have agreed jointly within the European framework. What does that mean for medical education? This means, in concrete terms, that an EU doctor who has completed at least 5 years of studies and at least 5,500 hours of theoretical and practical training has the right to have his education recognised automatically in Denmark. It is, of course, fundamental that we recognise each other's education within the framework of our European cooperation, on the basis of the minimum requirements that we have jointly found reasonable. So when we do not have the same requirements for EU doctors in the licensing process, it is precisely because we in the European Union have jointly set minimum standards for what to live up to. It is, of course, an influence and codecision which we obviously have no opportunity at all to oppose in the same way as when it comes to education carried out in third countries, that is to say outside the European Union. It is therefore quite natural that we should make some other professional demands on them. The fact that we have adopted rules on automatic recognition at European level also means that we cannot, as a Member State, choose to introduce a number of additional professional requirements as a condition for EU doctors to obtain Danish authorisation. It would be in direct contradiction with our EU legal obligations to introduce the proposed requirements for medical examinations and evaluation. For this reason, the government is unable to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. B 47. At the same time, however, I must stress that, if the minimum requirements agreed within the European Union are to be adjusted, it is of course something that needs to be done in the right forum, namely at European level. In this context, I can tell you that back in September I supported Denmark's support for the work of the European Network of Medical Competent Authorities, which is an association of competent authorities in the field of medicine. One of the interests promoted through the network is a review of the minimum duration of medical education, and I have supported this on behalf of Denmark, as I said. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that when we do not make professional demands from a central point of view, it is not an indication that we are relaxing the professional requirements of EU doctors. It will still be up to the employer to ensure the availability of the professional qualifications required for a job and if the professional qualifications are not sufficiently high, then the employer will have to ensure the necessary qualification for the specific job. That is the responsibility of the employer. Different is the case when it comes to introducing a language control for EU doctors. In fact, the recognition directive provides for the possibility of introducing language controls for persons in professions having an impact on patient safety. In November, I announced that I would like to see this type of language control for EU doctors. It is, of course, absolutely essential that we ensure the necessary linguistic skills of all foreign doctors. It is a requirement of the EU directive that national language control is proportionate, which means that it must not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve this objective. This means that the EU legal framework sets a limit on which language controls we can choose to introduce. At the same time, we also have an interest in ensuring that language control does not go beyond what is necessary, because this will, of course, ultimately be liable to hamper the recruitment opportunities of our regions. So it's all about finding the right tool. If you compare it with some neighbouring countries, you can see that the language requirements introduced in Sweden in 2016 for EU doctors in particular, and in Sweden they have experienced a significant decrease in the number of applications from medical professionals within the EU. In fact, in two years they went from getting 1,375 applications to just 864. There was therefore a significant decrease from 2015 to 2017. We must learn from this and strike an appropriate balance between the considerations involved and therefore find a model which, on the one hand, ensures a good level of language competence and, on the other hand, does not deprive our regions of the flexibility they need in certain recruitment situations where there is no need for the specific doctor to speak Danish at a very high level. Danish Test 3, which this specific proposal, B 48, proposes to introduce, unfortunately does not offer that flexibility, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal in its present form, but I would like to call on the Danish Government to draw up a report in the Danish Parliament's Health and Older People's Committee, in which we declare that we agree to introduce a national language control for EU doctors. My feeling is also that there is broad support among the parties for the introduction of such language control. What we have to do now is find the right model. In this context, I have already asked my ministry to discuss possible language models with Danske Regions to ensure that we land on a model that can work in practice. That is why I do not have a final proposal for a final model today either. However, on the basis of what we have heard in the preparation for today's treatment, I see that a Danish model could be based on the Swedish model, where language skills can be documented both through passed tests at a certain level and through an employer's declaration. When we talk about introducing language control for EU doctors, it is important to emphasise that national language control will never guarantee the linguistic communication capacity of a doctor. In the end, it will always be the employer's responsibility to ensure that only doctors who have the linguistic skills necessary for the specific recruitment are recruited. The fact that a doctor receives a certificate after passing a language test does not mean that the doctor can automatically go out and function in any position. It is the same for doctors from third countries. So it is still important, just as it is today, for employers to be aware of their responsibilities and to ensure the availability of the necessary language skills. Therefore, later in this Assembly, the government will resubmit the bill put forward by the previous government before the announcement of the election. With this legislative proposal, we are legalising the responsibility of employers and operators to ensure that the health care professionals they employ have the linguistic skills necessary for the specific recruitment. So to sum up here in the end: The government fully recognises the importance of foreign doctors having the necessary skills, for all our staff in Denmark must be able to provide high quality healthcare. The government cannot, of course, support the fact that Denmark is going against our EU legal obligations by introducing the professional requirements proposed in one of the proposals, but, on the other hand, as I announced back in November, the government will introduce a language check for EU doctors. A national language control combined with a statutory employer responsibility is important steps to ensure a higher level of language competence of foreign doctors in the Danish healthcare system. The government will continue to work towards an appropriate model. As I said, we cannot support the model which the proposal in its present form proposes to introduce. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104508	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104511	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. It is the case in the Danish health service that the whole requirement for getting out and working is that you get an authorisation. It is based on national requirements that we set ourselves for education and, in the case of foreign doctors, it is based on certain requirements that we make of language and qualifications. This is a prerequisite for getting out, but it is not a guarantee that you can get out and get a job. Of course, there is an employer's responsibility in relation to the fact that you also have to go through an employment interview. But now the Minister himself recognizes that it is sensible to have national requirements made in relation to languages, in other words a kind of licensing system. I think that is very satisfactory. I'm glad to hear that. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: why does the same thing not apply to qualifications? Now I understand that the Minister is referring to the EU commitments. However, I would like to know whether the Minister for Health has a medical argument that this is a different type of requirement for doctors who have taken their education in an EU country than for doctors who have taken their education in third countries. For within the European Union too, there are major differences in the demands we make, for example. the length of a Master's degree programme. The requirement is considerably shorter in what lies in the recognition directive than the requirement we make of doctors in Denmark. Is there any medical justification for not introducing the same rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104629	Thank you for the question, and thank you for accepting what I am announcing in relation to what is about languages. In relation to what is at issue here, there is, of course, the huge difference that we, as members of the European Union, have been involved in, and thus have had an influence on, the minimum requirements to be met as a doctor from an EU country if training is to be approved in Denmark. Quite the opposite, of course, with a doctor coming from a country outside the European Union. For all kinds of good reasons, Denmark has no possibility of influencing or influencing the length or content of such an education. That is why it makes very good sense for us to insist that we also have a number of professional requirements for doctors who are trained in third countries, where we therefore do not have as much knowledge and influence on the content of training as we do in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104734	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104735	Of course, it should be stressed that the 2,100 foreign doctors working in Denmark are making a huge and invaluable contribution to health care. And, as I recall, they are distributed fairly equally between doctors coming from EU countries and doctors coming from third countries. I find it hard to understand why we should not make the same demands. Because within the EU's recognition directive or not, there are major differences, and the Patient Safety Agency itself has recognised that there have been misoperations, given that the qualifications of doctors coming from EU countries have not been sufficient. Unfortunately, we see it primarily in hospitals where you already find it difficult to attract doctors. Do we not have national responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104817	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104819	There is an intention that all doctors, regardless of their country of education, regardless of nationality and origin, should have the right professional and linguistic skills when entering our Danish healthcare system. I would not be comfortable with the fact that we relaxed far too much in relation to the controls and the demands we make on third country doctors. On the other hand, I am pleased that we have an EU that can ensure that we can use foreign doctors and that we have an influence on what training requirements we can impose on them in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104859	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123104902	Thank you very much. Thank you for the Minister's reply, but it does not reassure me that we will be able to see something forward-looking that makes patients safe in health care. This isn't a new case, and that's why it's a re-submission. Because we've seen some unfortunate events. There are Danish patients who have died on the operating table; there are departments that are closed because it was foreign doctors who were employed who had neither the right qualifications nor the language. And that is what we want to do away with, and it is incredible that it is the EU's recognition directive that will determine what security and security we have in Denmark when we have to deal with our health care. The minister mentioned what was done in the European Union, but what is done about the universities that we saw in last year's broadcast that wrote false evidence of education? Has a list been made of which universities are blacklisted and which are whitelisted so that you know which university you can take from? After all, we saw that people from third world countries came and then they got an education in an EU country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105013	Thank you. So, I think I must ask you to have a written question in committee on precisely the element of foreign universities and their control. So let's try to drill it together in committee work. Then I would appeal to the Danish People's Party to hear what has been said here from the platform, namely that the government is quite clear and has started work and hopefully we can get a broad majority and a broad agreement on this in the Danish Parliament to do what the EU's rules actually allow, namely to put some language requirements on the doctors who are trained in the European Union. Because as a patient you can't use it for anything, that it's an EU doctor, and so there are some other requirements. After all, the patient has a perfectly justified need and claim to understand what is being said to you when you are in a Danish hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105109	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105110	I have a follow-up question. In relation to language requirements, I also heard that the Minister came to meet us, because of course something has to be done, but it is only half that, because you dare not go all the way, as Sweden has done, because then we may lose some doctors. So the question is: What is most important is the safety of patients or that we lose doctors? So we are one of the countries with the most doctors, and it could be that instead we should look at how we used them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105134	Thank you for the question. The safety of patients is always central, and in order for it to be taken care of, one must of course understand what the doctor says, but there must be one can blame all sorts of others, but our responsibility is to solve the problem, namely that in these years we have a great medical shortage in many different places in our health services. The problem will be solved in the long term because we have started several courses, and that is a good thing, but here and now we have a challenge, and there we need some foreign doctors too. They just need to learn how to speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105211	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105212	Thank you. Thank you also for pointing out that obtaining a medical certificate in Denmark does not mean that you have the right to work in Denmark as a doctor if no one wants to hire you. It is ultimately up to the hospitals and the regions whether they think that language skills are good enough for the EU doctors who come here. And I think that's good. Well, I was born and raised in South Jutland. There are many who speak a German at a level where they can clearly get better treatment of a very skilled German-speaking doctor than if the alternative is to choose a mediocre Danish-speaking doctor. But I think there is one point in what Enhedslisten says, although they attack it from a different angle: why are the rules that are good enough for EU doctors not good enough for doctors coming from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105310	Thank you for the question. And I agree with the nuance that this is the employer's responsibility and that the employer's responsibility is not exactly something you can write on a formula. This must be taken into account in accordance with the considerations and requirements that should be made in different parts of Denmark. When we in Denmark have the opportunity to approve doctors who are trained in the European Union, it is because in our EU work we have helped to set minimum requirements on how many hours, how many years, an education should last and what the quality of that education should be. And for good reasons, we do not have that for education outside the European Union. So there has to be this difference. And that is why it makes very good sense that there is also a difference in how we deal with the applications that come from doctors trained in the European Union and from doctors trained in a place where we therefore have no influence on how training is linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105411	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105413	Well, I fully agree with the Minister that the rules we have for language requirements in relation to doctors from EU countries are sufficient, because it must be up to the regions and hospitals to assess whether the language requirements meet what needs to be delivered to patients. I just do not understand why we then need stricter language requirements for people coming from other countries. In other words, the professional requirements must be strict, they must be able to get their material, they must know something about the diseases and the medicines that can be printed and so on, but why is there a need for stricter language requirements for people who come from now, for example. Great Britain than there are doctors coming from Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105454	But then perhaps we are in agreement, because the work we are now doing, and which I hope we can have broad support for in the Folketing, is precisely a job that will probably end up with some language requirements being made available to doctors from the European Union, but that these will be language requirements that will probably not be at the same level that doctors outside the European Union will have to live up to. I think that is very sensible, even at a time when, apart from the fact that these are EU rules, we have to live up to them, so all the other things I have said about the training of doctors in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105534	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105536	I would like to ask the Minister whether Danes who go to the doctor and think that they need an interpreter in order to understand the doctor can get it paid by the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105550	The answer to the question depends entirely on the premises behind it, but it was a short question, even if you have one minute to ask questions; so it was a little too bad. If you need an interpreter because the doctor does not speak a sufficiently good Danish language, if that is the premise in the question, I think it would be extremely unhappy, that is, if we are to have a situation in our health services where, in the case of doctors who come here, we have to hire interpreters for the crucial contact between the doctor and patient. So I don't think that would be a very viable way forward. I believe that instead of being inspired by what they do in Sweden, we should not be in exactly the same way, but by making demands that if you want to work in the Danish healthcare system with Danish patients, you should, as a rule, be able to have the Danish language, i.e. if you have this patient contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105648	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105650	Yes, but we do agree that there is a problem now, because otherwise we would not make any changes. This means that at this stage it is not acceptable, and that means that there are people who may experience it I get a lot of emails from people that they experience that they do not understand what the doctor is saying. When it is the inverted world, it is the doctor who assesses whether there should be an interpreter for people who come here because the doctor cannot communicate to the patient. Then I think that if the patient does not feel able to communicate with the doctor, he must of course have the same right as the doctor to ask for an interpreter. Therefore, if, as a Dane, you go to a doctor and say that you cannot understand what this doctor says, you must have the right to have an interpreter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105725	I understand the reasoning and logic behind the question here or the point here, but I think it is a backward way of solving the problem. The work that I have announced in this debate today, I hope, results in something that would make the situation superfluous, which should minimise the language barrier that I recognise there are in various parts of our healthcare system. The second would, I think, be to go the opposite way, where we do not solve the very cause of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105803	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we are going to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123105817	Thank you. I myself come from an area in Denmark where there is a serious shortage of doctors. When I have been to medical clinics and health houses in the Region of Zealand for the last time, I have been to Holbæk, I have been to Kalundborg and I have been to Odsherred, I have been around the country, I can see what it means that doctors are missing, and there is no indication that it will be better in the future. On the contrary, projections show that if we do not do something quite extraordinary in the next few years, in the Region of Zealand alone there will be 100,000 patients who do not have access to their own doctor. I think it is important to make the point in this debate that we have serious medical shortages. This applies regardless of whether the doctor comes from an EU country or a third country. It is already part of the ordinary employer's responsibility to ensure that the staff of our hospitals, including doctors, have the right qualifications. This applies to both professional and linguistic qualifications. Yet from time to time we hear about patients who have had a bad experience and who have not been able to communicate properly with the doctor. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. That is why we agree with the intentions behind the proposal, and we fully agree that we can do more than we do today. The first step must be to increase the responsibility of the employer, that is to say, to increase responsibility towards the doctors' employers. Here the government has already announced a change in the law which clarifies the employer's responsibility. EU rules mean that it is not possible to impose exactly the same requirements on doctors from EU countries as on doctors from third countries, and therefore we cannot support the two proposals as they stand here, but we must do more than we do today, and we can at least support the intentions. Because we can make demands on doctors from EU countries, even more stringent requirements than those we are making today. The government and the Social Democrats are also prepared to do so, and the Social Democrats and the government fully support it. I am pleased to hear that the Minister for Health and the Elderly will develop a new proportional national language control for EU doctors. I look forward to that, because of course we should not accept that there are Danes who cannot speak Danish with their doctor or with the doctor who is going to treat them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110115	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110121	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. It is absolutely true that there is employer responsibility, but we also have a national responsibility to ensure that the doctors we send out who have the opportunity to look for a job have sufficient qualifications. That's why we have an authorization system. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the problem of lack of a doctor. It is of course no secret that the places where we have seen problems with the quality of the doctors who have been employed are mainly those where it has been difficult to attract doctors. It is typical at Nykøbing Falster and Thisted hospitals that we have had the problem, and it is well known also in the Danish Agency for Patient Safety that there have been problems with qualifications. Fortunately, that is the case with a few doctors, but we also have a national responsibility there, just as we do with regard to languages. Will the rapporteur not recognise that it is a national responsibility to ensure that the doctors we send out who can seek employment also meet a minimum requirement in terms of qualifications?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110221	I think it is a national responsibility; I think it is a regional responsibility; I think it is a municipal responsibility; I think it is a European responsibility. I think it is a responsibility that is really incumbent on all of us to ensure that our patients have access to medical care, first of all, and secondly, and equally important, that they have access to qualified treatment. However, it is quite true, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says, that it is those places in the country where there is a very serious shortage of doctors that there are also many foreign doctors. And it is a gift as a starting point, because we would really be in deep water if there was no possibility that foreign doctors could come to Denmark and help deal with some of the medical shortage. But, of course, we must make demands and, of course, we must also make tough demands. That is what is being proposed in the motion for a resolution, and the intentions of the Social Democrats support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110318	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110322	Then I think the very first thing we should do is get rid of the humps. As the rapporteur also knows, we had a conciliation meeting here earlier on to remove the bumps that exist in relation to the doctors who come from third countries and who have difficulty in obtaining a licence. When we need them, we should, of course, take action in order to ease their access to the right to enter and obtain authorisation or not to relax their access, but to ensure that the processing time is shortened. Now I also know that the rapporteur is very concerned about inequality in health, particularly regional inequality. Will the rapporteur not recognise that there is a problem here, because if we do not take responsibility for this at national level, we risk pushing the problem to those regions that are the most pressured in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110400	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110403	Yes, I would like to acknowledge that: there is a great responsibility on the Danish Parliament and the government, of course, in ensuring that all citizens throughout the country can have access to their own doctor. We see that the further away you come from the big cities, the harder it will be to get access to your own doctor. And that's the boring news... it's only gonna get worse for the next few years if we don't do something extraordinary. Foreign doctors can remedy some of the problem. The fact that we are creating more medical positions can solve part of the problem, but many more tools need to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110442	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110447	Thank you. And thank you for trying to recognise that there is a problem with linguistic competences out there, and it is good that the Minister also recognised it. Then there is whether the Danes should have paid interpreters when they come to the doctor. I could hear from the Minister that this is a backward way of thinking. This isn't something that will be solved tomorrow, but until this is resolved until we have solved the linguistic problems until this is implemented, and until it is running, we don't have a commitment, in that patient security is the patient's experience that they are confident that they can understand what a doctor says must be given priority over a system? And so it might be sensible to give patients a right to ask for an interpreter if they can't understand what a doctor is saying so that there's no mistake until this system works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110532	Yes, we have a problem. And yes, we have an obligation to ensure that proper communication can be made. I do not agree that the solution is that we should start calling interpreters to translate for patients in the Danish healthcare system. I think it is the solution to it, what can be said, medium-term, that we will have stricter language requirements. I believe that this is now being resolved by raising the flag in relation to the employer's responsibility. There is simply a responsibility to ensure that patients understand what is being said and then they have to solve it locally and regionally. One of the things you have to do is... to solve it in the practical situation by getting in another health care provider if there are some individual things that you do not understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110617	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110621	But what is the Social Democratic response to the patients who go to the hospital today and find that they cannot understand what the doctor is saying? Is it just: Well, you'll have to put up with that No and then you'll have to talk to the regions and see if they can solve it? The regions say that they do not have the money, because their budgets are already tight. And then the answer is in here from the Assembly Hall: Yes, people must live with it until our solution has been implemented. That is not enough. And there are a lot of people who turn and say that they do not understand what they doctors say and that there is a problem. They don't feel safe. And then they'll just have to wait until this system starts running. Surely it cannot be satisfactory for a social democratic government to say that it is not going to solve the problem here and now when a solution is found right now, called interpreters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110700	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110705	I do not think that is what the New Citizens' rapporteur heard me say. What I would like to say to you here in the Danish Parliament is the same thing that I say to patients who have this concern and express it when I'm out in the Danish country, namely that they should not put up with it; we cannot accept it. You have to understand what the doctor is saying. We need to make tougher demands, and we need to make regions and hospitals aware of their employer responsibility. And it is the responsibility of ensuring that the patient can understand what the doctor is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110737	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110745	Thank you very much. I can of course hear that the rapporteur recognises that there is a problem and that the region of Zealand, from which we both come, has also had major problems. However, is it not precisely the fear that the rapporteur also raises that doctors should be given enough to say yes and thus not make the demands that are necessary? We have five regions which have known for years that this is a problem, yet each region is thinking of its own and is not helping those regions which may be in need of doctors. We know that we are one of the countries with the most doctors. So it could also be some of the things that were set in motion so that we did not need all the foreign doctors. But is this something that the Socialists want to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110828	I always believe that Denmark will also benefit from having foreign doctors. But, of course, we must never compromise on quality, and we can also make stricter demands, as laid down in the motion for a resolution, and which the government and the Social Democrats would also like to meet. Can there then be greater solidarity between the regions? Surely, this can be done in order to remedy some problems. As far as doctors and people with long education are concerned, we can see that there is a tendency for it to be lumped together around the largest cities, a little north of Copenhagen, and this is a much, much bigger issue which deserves much more attention. After all, it is absolutely essential to ensure that a country that is linked to it is challenged and that we ensure equality in health care, and that we are challenged and ensured that we have health professionals distributed throughout the country. It's also a point I have just 7 seconds left, and it's just to move a little further out of my mind when we talk nurses. It's not enough to train a lot of nurses and a lot of doctors. We must also ensure that they are trained throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110931	Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123110934	Not long ago I had a woman on the phone from the Region of Zealand who had had breast cancer and then had to get up and know that the cancer had spread. Unfortunately, it was one of those who had been unfortunate in the breast cancer scandal and who sat before a doctor who could not explain what to do next. How can we ensure that the people who come out in these situations can get the treatment and the communication that is important for them to actually be whole people when they leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111007	We're going to do that in two ways here on the shorter level. In the longer term, we need to train many more doctors. However, on the shorter track, we need to resolve this by tightening up the language requirements of the Danish People's Party itself and which the government and the Social Democrats would very much like to meet, i.e. stricter language requirements especially for EU doctors; but we also need to ensure that hospitals around the country, the regions, become more aware of their employer responsibility and that they are responsible for ensuring that the patient understands what the doctor is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111039	As no one else has asked for a brief comment, we thank Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. We move on and then it will be Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111049	Thank you, President. I would like to say hello to the rapporteur on health, Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen, and say that he is looking forward to taking part in the committee work here; unfortunately he did not have the opportunity to be present in the Chamber today. The motions for resolutions before us, B 47 on qualification requirements and B 48 on language requirements for doctors performing their duties in Denmark, illustrate in all their simplicity also the beauty of parliamentary work here in the Folketing. The proposals are based on two parties, which are traditionally divided in Danish politics, and that also gives me the opportunity to express my support in principle. For in the Left, we fully agree with the proposers' concern about patient safety if foreign doctors meet Danish patients and the Danish health care system and do not match the quality and qualification requirements that we naturally impose. Foreign doctors' educational background, national therapeutic traditions and cultural approach must not block a world-class Danish healthcare system. As a patient in the Danish healthcare system, you should be able to place both life and mobility in the hands of the health care professionals that the regions have chosen to employ. Therefore, there is also the responsibility of the regions to ensure that the healthcare professional employed has both the necessary medical skills and the linguistic skills. The language requirements for EU doctors should ensure a high level of language and, at the same time, a flexibility that ensures that a distinction can be made between recruitment to patient-related functions and more research and non-patient-related functions. The level should be set as high as possible and, for example, Sweden, which has introduced language requirements for EU doctors a few years ago. Here, we think it is worth noting that the former Minister for Health, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, started work to strengthen the possibilities for, and led the Chamberlain to look into, how, within the framework of EU rules, we can ensure a high level of language and professionalism for doctors coming from other EU countries. The regions must ensure that doctors have the skills appropriate to the task to be carried out. This is happening a great deal in the regions, and I really welcome the fact that there are regions offering mentoring programmes to foreign doctors and requirements adapted to the job functions that the doctor concerned has to perform. The previous government carried out a number of initiatives to increase the dimension of medical education in Denmark. The positive consequences of the increased dimensioning have not yet been realised, and therefore we in Denmark continue to need foreign health professionals. In any case: in the Left we support ensuring a clear indication that foreign doctors who are employed in Denmark with a function such as: involving patient contact, must communicate in an understandable Danish language, so that the doctor and patient have the best possible conditions for a successful course of treatment, and that the requirements for linguistic skills are also dependent on the task or function that the doctor is required to perform. In this context, we welcome the fact that it seems that, in the subsequent discussion of these two motions for resolutions, all the parties of the Folketing can gather together on a so-called report which sets the direction for further work on these important issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111434	There is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111439	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am aware that the rapporteur is a temporary rapporteur, but now I know that this is an area in which the rapporteur has dealt with a great deal in the past, so I would also like to ask a few questions. And I would just like to say that, although the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten are far from one another ideologically, we have, after all, all the same interests, especially in terms of strengthening patient safety, regardless of our EU legal obligations. I therefore think it is positive that the rapporteur is now saying that the Left is willing to accept that some national requirements are being made in relation to languages, and the rapporteur was very concerned about languages in the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to know where the Left is in relation to the issue of qualifications, i.e. whether, in addition to the EU legal obligations, there are some health-care reasons why one does not introduce one's qualification requirements, no matter where a doctor has taken his education. This is a problem which many of the health professional organizations also raise, and they agree that there should be equal demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111547	On the left side, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, we fully agree that patient safety is essential in order to ensure a high quality and a world-class healthcare system in Denmark as well. And if I had said it in a way, so it sounded as if only Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party were protecting patient safety, I can say that I have at least been misunderstood, because I do not believe that there is a single party in the Danish Parliament that does not uphold patient safety. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we, of course, follow the rules that exist within the European Union, that we meet the requirements that the European Union makes. And I am actually very pleased that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby started a job through the DA, both to look at what is possible in terms of qualifications and in terms of language requirements. We must ensure that there is maximum quality in the Danish healthcare system and that doctors are professionally skilled, whether they come from an EU, EEA or third country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111645	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111649	Nor did I say that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten were the only ones who cared about patient safety. I merely mentioned that in this case, we put the concern for patient safety on account of EU law. And I still need to hear the medical grounds for the patient's difference in whether the doctor has taken his education in an EU country, an EEA country or in a third country, because the patient can in fact be completely indifferent to that, just language and qualifications are in order. And that is where it is incumbent on us, as Parliament, to set out guidelines to ensure that you can get a licence to work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111730	We in Denmark have a number of EU obligations, and we have to live up to them with one hand, and with the other hand we have the opportunity to stick out some guidelines ourselves. And I think that is an excellent model, as long as you ensure that the doctors working in Denmark can speak Danish, whether it is one or the other model that you work within, there should be no doubt about that; we must make high demands. And, as far as the EU doctors are concerned, I am actually glad that we are now starting work on how we can create a proportional model, that is to say for EU doctors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111812	Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111821	I would also like to ask questions, even though the rapporteur is a substitute. I know that Mrs Jane Heitmann is competent in this area. Because if you mention patient safety yourself, could it not be an idea, as we have talked about here, to give patients a right to interpreter until it works? After all, we all recognise that there is a problem in this area. Nor do I think that there should always and forever be access to interpreters. But until it works, is it not patient safety, people's ability to feel safe and secure when they come to a hospital doctor who must weigh the most heavily, both in relation to what we have to start from in here and in relation to what is EU law and everything else? This problem could be solved by giving them the right to interpreter, as we could, for example. Doing to aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111909	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123111914	I simply find it so exciting that New Citizens are now joining the patient rights debate. Because if there is anything we in the Left have cared about, it is giving patients rights on the treatment page, on the investigation page, in relation to rehabilitation. I can give you a large number of examples of where the Left has taken the lead in guaranteeing Danish patients' rights. That is why I also find it exciting that New Citizens are now joining forces with a concrete proposal which we in the Left would like to discuss if New Citizens were to table a resolution or otherwise put forward a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. I think it is a really, really exciting discussion, how we can ensure that Danish patients have the best possible starting point, among other things. Qua strong rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112004	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112007	We thank you. As to whether we have joined, it can be said that this is the first time we have dealt with patient safety in this way. But I am glad that we recognise that this is something that is also at the heart of the new citizens, just as I know that it is at the heart of the Left. A good job has been done in the last period of government, and I fully acknowledge that. I would also like to ask the other parties today whether this cannot be a temporary solution that we need to look at, precisely to ensure patient safety until we get there. So I welcome the positive support, and then we will send something to the Chamber and contact the other parties to see if we can find support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112037	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112040	I actually heard it more as a comment rather than as a real question. But I will certainly look forward to future discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112049	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112052	I get a little insecure when the rapporteur talks more about us complying with the EU recognition directive. In the Danish People's Party we would like to challenge that right, because we think it is important for each country to be able to look after its citizens. This is something that means death to some of the patients who have been there. It sounds grotesque, but so it is, and there is proof of that, and that is why it was also closed down departments. It is a danger to the lives of some of our citizens that we have people who are not qualified enough or who cannot speak well enough. So will the rapporteur take part in challenging the directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112144	I simply do not think I can say clearly enough: the safety and safety of Danish patients in the Danish healthcare system is absolutely crucial for us in the Left. That is why I am also glad that we have the debate again today, because it is a challenge that there are patients out there who do not understand their doctor and cannot communicate with their doctor. From this point of view, I would like to make a clear call to the regions and say that it is simply not good enough. We need to step up to ensure that there is good communication. I think it is gratifying if, through a joint report, we can have a framework on how we can have a new language test that is proportional and that is still within the framework of the European Union because we are, whether the Danish People's Party likes it or not, bound by the framework that is within the European Union. I think it's really gratifying that we're going to do this again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112245	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112247	Well, I can see that's true. What I mean is that you do not dare challenge EU law. That is where we in the Danish People's Party say: Well, let's challenge it. Because can a right come and say that we must take more account of those who do not have proper education than of our own citizens? And the only thing the rapporteur talks about is language. Here we are talking about qualifications. I am sure that we can have someone who speaks another language but can operate a heart very well. At least I know that there are a lot of doctors who can do that. But when we talk about qualifications here, should we not be able to demand some of the doctors who come, in fact, no matter where the hell they come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112324	We must demand much of the foreign health professionals who come to Denmark. We have to. We must demand that both professional qualifications and linguistic qualifications are in order. It was one of those things. the reason why the former Health Minister from the Left, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, took the lead in the work of asking the DA to look at what the possibilities are, so that we can tighten the screws so that we can ensure that the level is high, both for doctors coming from the European Union and for those coming from third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112358	We thank Mrs Jane Heitmann. And then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123112418	Thank you. Unfortunately, the debate is so bitten because it is something that is really important to us when we have been able to see the many incidents that have been going on in the last few years, which I have mentioned before, with death, or with a great many unintended incidents. There are very many numbers of patients who have felt much worse by entering the Danish healthcare system. Last February, I think it was, Denmark's Radio ran a series called the foreign doctors, and there we saw many of these very good doctors who also came, and for many we saw how skilled they were at learning the language and that they had the qualifications. And I would like to start by saying: we have a lot of good foreign doctors, but we certainly also have some who have cheated on an education or who think that they can probably Danish because no one is demanding them. That means something in our health services, and that is why, together with Enhedslisten, we made these proposals which, unfortunately, we did not have time to deal with. Before that, however, we have had ministers in consultation, we have asked questions, and all they kept saying was: we cannot bypass it, because it is the EU's recognition directive. And that is where we in the Danish People's Party say: Well, can you really blame Denmark at an EU Court of Justice for looking after your citizens rather than ensuring that when someone comes from a certain university, you approve that education, because that says the recognition directive that you should? We are discussing both proposals together, so we are talking about languages on the one hand and qualifications on the other. The last few days we have been trying to see if we could find a collection on what are called language requirements, because it is evident that this is where we are most in agreement, i.e. that one must of course be able to speak properly Danish when talking to patients. And it's also important. I also heard the New Citizens' rapporteur talk a lot about interpreters, and actually a lot of people are asking me that too. When we can't understand what the doctor is saying, can we get an interpreter? How do we ensure that as a Danish patient you can go home and be confident and be assured that you have understood what was said? It can sometimes be a little difficult to hear what doctors say, but if at the same time they do not speak properly Danish, it will not be easier. In fact, this can also apply to some of those who come from the European Union. There was one of the rapporteurs who talked about having lived in South Jutland and that there speaks doctors German. Yes, but I am quite sure that many South Jutlanders can German, like those who live in the capital, are used to Swedish. It's quite common. But there are just some languages that make it very difficult to understand what the doctor says you are wrong. So with these proposals we would have liked a majority to say: here we need to tighten up. The very best thing would be if we could challenge the European Union in this area and that the Minister said: we are working at EU level to do something special here, of course, so that we ensure our citizens; or the Minister said that doctors are coming around in all regions who can take care of the tasks where we need doctors. I know that both the previous government and the current government are looking at medical training and so on. and that there are challenges, but that is also something that we just have to keep on addressing. It is no longer than last week, I think, in a consultation on the breast cancer scandal, that I asked the Minister whether any of this could be the result of our having foreign doctors. And there was no rejection by the Minister. It just shows how important it is when we talk about our hospital system that we can understand those who have this contact with people and have to explain to them what is wrong with them, how they should be treated, where they should be sent and to whom they should contact. It is already very difficult if you have a conviction that you have a severe illness, and if the doctor then speaks grimly Danish and you cannot understand what the doctor says, it may be even harder. We would have liked to have had an interpreter, if not an interpreter, then at least a nurse who could translate into Danish. One could also ensure that there were some methods of how to do it. I remember once we were with the Health Committee in India to look at doctors. We must be careful that we do not braindrains, that is to say, take all good heads from other countries and hire them in Denmark • that is why we were in India. We met a heart doctor who was one of the best heart doctors, and he operated hearts on assembly lines, so he actually never had contact with the patients. It was some others who translated what he said. That's just not the way we work at home. But there must of course be some opportunities to look at how we ensure that we get some really good surgeons, some really good doctors, but also that patients understand what happens when they are hospitalized and when they are told what treatment they should undergo. When we have talked about the language requirement, we have looked to Sweden. And there I have some questions for the Minister, because we would like to see more skeleton for Sweden than skeleton for Sweden, because to skew is just to look: what do they do? No, we don't like that. We don't have to. But we would have liked to have been very much in line with their demands. And then it can be said that the demands should not, of course, be greater than those we have for doctors coming from third world countries. So these are some of the things we want to ask questions about. Now that we are dealing with the committee, we must see whether it can turn into a report or whether it will turn into a vote. At any rate, I have not yet taken a position on this, but it must be something we are looking at in committee. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113030	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113034	Thank you, and thank you to DF and also Enhedslisten for raising this question. We can already say that we will support it. I have heard that it would be a good idea for the new citizens to make a proposal on this issue of securing interpreters until they are in operation, in other words to ensure patient safety now and here. Is it really my view that DF will take a positive view of that, of course, we should have just looked at the concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113055	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113059	I believe that we must ensure that patients get it in Danish so that they understand it. I've heard about young people coming to Køge Hospital, and then it's in English. Well, it's not optimal either. We live in Denmark, which must be spoken Danish, and we must understand what is being said. And if you can't get a nurse who says so in Danish, then there must be an interpreter who can translate it into Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113118	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113122	I thank you for that. I have heard positive feedback from the Left, now I hear positive feedback from the Danish People's Party. I hope I get more positive feedback here. There are other parties who have advocated interpreters for foreigners etc., so I do not see why we should not also think that there should be interpreters for Danes if it is patient safety that we put it in relation to, as Enhedslisten said here. So I look forward to that, and then we will certainly go to the Chamber to find support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113149	That is absolutely correct. Now we have had a lot of criticism that we have said that when you come as a foreigner and have lived here for 3 years and have received free Danish lessons, you have to pay your own interpreter. But when we say that there are Danes who cannot understand a foreigner, then nothing can be done. So that's reverse logic, we think. Of course, you have to understand what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113209	We thank the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113233	Thank you very much. After all, we have to work together today on the two motions for resolutions tabled here by the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, which deal with the professional and linguistic qualifications of doctors, and I would like to thank the other rapporteurs who have stood up here, not least the Minister, for raising this extremely important debate. For there is a shortage of doctors in our healthcare system, and we all agree that we need to do something about it. For the Radical Left, as it does for all other parties in the Folketing, patient safety comes first. It is clear that the doctors we employ must have both the professional qualifications and the linguistic skills that it takes to work in our healthcare system. We therefore fully agree with the intention of the two motions for resolutions. Nevertheless, we have to vote against because they conflict with the EU recognition directive, as the Minister, among other things. also explained well earlier in his speech. After all, we are pleased that we in the European Union have made it easy to recognise professional competences across the EU's borders, but at the same time it is clear that the intention has of course never been to jeopardise the lives and health of patients. Therefore, we would very much like to support looking at what we can do to ensure the professional level within the framework of the recognition directive, as the Minister also mentioned earlier, and that could be to work for a review of the minimum duration we require, for the medical training we need to recognise automatically. We also fully agree with the Minister that we should look at whether a language control should be introduced in order to ensure the right level, and here it is, among other things, that. The rapporteur of the Left also said that it was quite obvious to deal with what they are doing in Sweden. Because it is absolutely imperative that communication between doctor and patient is done in a way that both parties understand each other. It is crucial for the right treatment and for the optimal course of illness that they understand what is being said • that the patient understands what the doctor says, that one understands what kind of illness you have and what kind of treatment you should accept. That is why I would also like to sign for, among other things. The rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party, who speak a lot for interpreters in health care. We in the Radical Left are extremely pleased about this, and I think it is nice to hear that we recognise the premise that communication is necessary, that we need to understand each other and that it is therefore dangerous when patients and doctors do not understand each other. When Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen speaks for free interpreters, that is something that has been debated a few weeks ago, and I think we stood alone with others. Enhedslisten. I'm pretty sure that this interpretation fee thing wasn't something everyone was willing to look at, but it's just nice that it's been opened up. Because, of course, we need to understand each other in health care, that is absolutely essential. One could also look at the many doctors from third countries who have the professional and linguistic qualifications it requires, but who cannot work because they wait unreasonablely long to be allowed to take a test here in Denmark. So we recognise the problem and we fully agree with the intention of the two proposals, but we cannot support them as they stand right now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113545	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113552	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the only reason why this cannot be supported here is the consideration of EU law, and that therefore means that consideration of EU law is above patient safety, because that is thought-provoking. The Medical Association writes that it is of course important that doctors, wherever they are born and trained, have the skills needed to operate in the Danish healthcare system, whether it be language, professional level or cultural understanding. Staff Dentists' Organisation writes that they encourage the establishment of a central and proactive system for testing the professional competences of foreign health professionals. This applies both to healthcare professionals from third countries and to healthcare professionals with training from another EU-EEA country. So it is also something that is being demanded in the professional environments, that is, that we get equal demands. Because it's hard to see a medical argument. So I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the only argument against this is that it is contrary to EU law and should not give rise to a consideration that this is the most sensible place to stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113659	Thank you. This has given rise to many considerations, because I fully agree with the problem, namely that of course patient safety is the most important and, of course, the doctors working in the Danish health service must have the right qualifications. I have not heard anyone in here who disagrees with that position. Having said that, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, we are bound by EU law and we welcome the recognition directive. We are pleased that you can travel across the EU's borders and easily recognise your professional competences. Having said that, it is clear that in this case there are some problems. We recognise this, and that is why I say that we should look at what we can do within the directive so that we can ensure that the doctors who work here have the right qualifications. It could, for example, be done. be looking at how long an education must be before we have to automatically recognise it. I believe that it was the Liberal Alliance rapporteur who is now no longer sitting down there who said that there is also an employment responsibility in the regions, where I am counting on them, of course, to look at whether the doctors they employ have the right qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113800	I am just wondering whether, in a case like this, where it can be said that, on the one hand, it is the concern for patient safety and, on the other hand, it is the concern for EU law, then it was not a matter worth trying at the European Court of Justice, so to see if it is really true that when a national parliament wants to take care of patient safety, there are EU rules that prevent it. And isn't that something we need to change? In other words, EU law is a driving force in relation to the legislative work in the European Union. So wasn't it a case that was just worth traveling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113833	Thank you. As I said, I think we should look at what we can do within the directive. I look forward to discussing it in the rapporteur's circle. What can we do, can we tighten up in any way? Because I think that the recognition directive itself is a very good idea. In this case, of course, we can see that there have been examples that run counter to what I believe is the purpose of the directive. It has never been that we should employ poorly qualified doctors. I think it is worth looking at what we can do to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113858	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113902	Thank you. I do not wish to rebuke the rapporteur, but I am quite sure that I have not said free interpreter. I've probably said tax-financed interpreters, but we'll have to go back to the archives and see that. However, I am pleased and positive that Radicals could also take a positive view of this, because the rapporteur said that patient safety comes first. I heard the rapporteur say that, and we agree with that. That's why we're saying interpretation until this system, which you're now setting in motion, works. These are good measures that are now coming, and we support that too, but until it is in place, until we are in a place where patients feel they are safe, then I hear a little that Radicals say that perhaps one might wonder if it was also a right for the patient to be able to have an interpreter if the patient cannot understand the doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123113947	Thank you. As I say, I fully acknowledge the premise that communication is essential. I've just heard Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen be very opposed, not free, but tax-financed interpretation in the health care system when it goes the other way. I don't see much difference. It's the communication that's important to me. It is important that the patient is given the right information and the right treatment. And if sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen agrees with me that this is the way it should be, so I am just glad that there is another party that joins us on the interpretation fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114013	We can have a long discussion on that back and forth. Here we have a very specific problem which concerns Danish citizens and we are seeking support to see if we cannot solve it. In fact, I hear some positive behaviors from Radicals. I hear the same from the Left and the Danish People's Party. Then it may actually be that there is a majority in favour of us being able to do something now and here until the other gets settled. I'll take that as a positive sign, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114035	Well, let's look at what's being laid out, and then we'll have to take it from there. However, I think that the rapporteur should consider whether this should also apply to the other way, in other words that it should also apply to the interpretation fees we have talked about in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114050	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114053	Thank you very much. I will continue where Mr. Peder Hvelplund escaped, because I do not think the rapporteur answered whether to challenge the court. The rapporteur continues to say that it must be within the scope of the directive. But then there's nothing to challenge. We would then like to challenge the directive in order to ensure that there is also a look at, for example. length of training? Today we have to say yes to them because we have to recognise the education they have taken in their country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114123	Thank you. I thought I'd answered that, but I'm very sorry if it wasn't clear. I have just said that I think we should look at what we can do with regard to the length of the training which we must automatically recognise. However, I also believe, as one of the first things I said, that we cannot vote in favour of a proposal that leads to a case before the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114143	That is also the answer that you do not want to, because you only want to do what is within the directive. Do I understand that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114152	Yes, we have to look at how the interpretation is here in Denmark, in other words what we can do within the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114200	Thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. And a warm welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from Aarhus as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114210	Thank you. Thanks to Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti for focusing on how foreign doctors can best perform tasks in the Danish health care system. We need them. Let me make it clear that every patient must be able to count on the doctors who treat us in the Danish health care system to have competences similar to those which we in Denmark impose on medical education. Similarly, linguistic competences are crucially important. No doubt the doctor should be able to understand what the patient is saying and the patient should be able to understand what the doctor is saying. Today, we are putting higher language requirements on doctors coming from outside the European Union than on doctors coming from the European Union. Of course, that doesn't make sense. However, it makes sense to discuss whether, within the so-called recognition directive, we can make the same demands on EU doctors as we make on doctors coming from outside the European Union. I am particularly pleased that the Minister has taken the initiative on concrete proposals, and I am also listening to the fact that there is a great deal of agreement in committee on that part. Can we then make the same professional demands on doctors within the European Union as we make on doctors coming from outside the European Union when it comes to professional competences, and is the government prepared to ensure that we do so in the future? Now I am not part of the government, but I agree with the proposers that we should always put patient safety above the rules. That is also the responsibility of the regions today. They also decide who is to be employed. So you can't just ask for an appointment just because you're a doctor. In other words, you have to be employed by someone who also considers that you have the necessary competences. Danish design is good, but before we get too fat, I just want to remind you in all silence that we also sometimes enjoy international exchange of experience. If so, for example. is the German or Canadian doctor, who is the best in the world, I think we can all see the idea of an appointment. I also believe that Danish doctors can become more skilled in this cooperation. That kind of exchange of experience goes two ways, I guess. So I think there is a basis for discussing how we are constantly ensuring that we are getting better and better at patient treatment. And I think that a good place to do that is to take the further discussion in a committee. I hope that we may also be able to agree on some kind of report.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114506	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114512	Thank you to the rapporteur. We know that there are problems in this area. We've heard that everyone recognizes that there are. And now we're going to do some things that hopefully in the long run can solve this. We have proposed from New Citizens to offer interpreters now and here until we get there because we hear examples from out there that people are insecure because they cannot understand what is being said. So patient safety must come first, and this will not be in conflict with any EU legislation or anything; it is a measure that we can make lightning fast. So until the second one goes, we can give the citizens a sense of security by saying: Now we are acting from in here right away. Was that something SF could also look positive on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114557	I would rather just stick to the fact that the regions have a responsibility to ensure that the patient can understand what the doctor is saying and that the doctor can understand what the patient is saying, because this is a prerequisite for patient safety. And if it turns out not to be true, we do have the Patient Compensation, which takes care of any damage that might result from it but it is not the case that cases in the Patient Compensation are crawling about exactly language problems as a reason for something to happen. The regions already have opportunities today to organise their work in such a way that other colleagues can step in or otherwise be helpful. And if the regions think that they can do no other than an interpreter, then the regions must employ an interpreter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114647	Yeah, but it's about the system. I am talking about regard for the citizen, about the right of the citizen to meet a doctor, that is, if you say that you cannot understand what the doctor is saying, then you have a right, that is, a right to receive help so that you can understand it. Then it may well be that you can complain about it afterwards, but it doesn't help in a course of illness; there it is here and now. It's here and now that you're insecure. It's here and now that you need a doctor you can understand. There we say that we can ensure that until we have better language requirements. Because SF recognizes that there is a problem with the language requirements out there; otherwise we wouldn't have to change it. And here and now we can ensure a solution to that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114725	I am sorry, but I simply think it is nonsense to say that, because we insist that some people have a right of employment, namely the regions, the system is taken into account instead of the patients. I maintain that the regions have that responsibility and that, in this way, they also have to live up to it, and if they do not, I think it will be a matter which must be taken with each region for the region a duty to ensure that the patient understands what the doctor is saying. And how they do that, I'd like to give some freedom of method to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114755	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114759	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is quite true that there is an employer's responsibility, and it is also obvious that the fact that you have an authorisation does not mean that you are necessarily entitled to a job. However, we have seen that there have been some cases in particular in the Region of Zealand and North Jutland, but in particular the Region of Zealand with doctors who have provided an educational background from an EU country where there have been problems with the level of qualification. It is also recognised in the Patient Safety Agency that there have been major problems. It is probably not by chance that it is specifically in those hospitals where you have the most difficulty attracting doctors that you as an employer can have the consideration whether you have to relax a little in order to attract doctors at all. Does the rapporteur not agree that there is an obligation on us as a national authority or as a Parliament and legislator to ensure that there is a sufficient basis for qualification when you are given a licence to work in the health service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123114904	I mean, I think it is important that we constantly talk about how we can improve education in general, and I think we should do this internationally, because we also learn a great deal from doctors, experts and professors in the world, fortunately for that. They also come to Denmark I know some of them and some of them even come to Denmark without being able to speak a word Danish, and yet we want them to help us learn more about the Danish health system. But I would say that it is not forbidden to fire an employee again. Then you've got an employee who really doesn't have the skills you want, you're allowed to say: you just can't do the work I expect from you. No matter how much you need mechanics, the mechanics do not hire a hairdresser either, because there is a lack of mechanics, you make sure you try to gather the strength to solve the tasks you now have to solve. We know that we have a challenge in terms of medical shortages, and we have been working on that for the last three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115004	I think it's gonna be a little too easy, because we're in trouble. We have experienced very specific, very unhappy cases in specific hospitals based on exactly this. We can then say that the doctor will just be fired afterwards, but there we have a responsibility to ensure that such incidents do not happen again, that is to say when they have happened, we have a duty to do so. That is why we have laid down rules on what applies to doctors coming from third countries. Why not say that the excellent and sensible rules we have adopted there also apply to the other doctors, so that we can at least minimise the risk of such mistakes repeating themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115040	Well, I don't know if we're actually gonna solve the problem like that. In other words, there have also been mistakes with doctors who have come from third world countries. There have also been mistakes with doctors who have been trained in Denmark. What is the solution is to maintain that the regions have a responsibility to ensure that the staff employed are competent in relation to the task to be carried out and also respond to it if that is not the case. And we have different bodies to deal with that and to ensure that we check whether things are going in the right way. I think that is the solution. And I love education, including the international kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115113	Thank you to the folk socialists' rapporteur, and welcome to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, who has chosen to divide his speaking time into two parts to the formal rapporteur's speech and the second part to the possibility of making comments at the end as the proposer. It is an opportunity that everyone has, if they are authors, but here we see it practiced. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115138	Thank you for that, and thank you to the President for just keeping it going until I got here on the platform. After all, we have tabled these two motions for resolutions, which are being discussed here today, and we have divided them up, because we are fully aware that there are various challenges, depending on whether we are talking about language requirements or we are talking about qualification requirements in relation to the EU's legal obligations. That is why it also sounds as if we are able to get through our views more easily when it comes to languages, because the European Union allows us to do so, whereas we find it difficult to get through exactly the same ideas that lie behind the proposal on qualifications, because it is about qualifications and then the European Union gets in the way. For us, however, it is absolutely crucial that when a patient comes into contact with the Danish healthcare system, one must of course be sure that the treating doctor can speak, understand, and that the professional qualifications are in order. It's kind of simple. That, of course, should be the case. As a patient, you can be completely indifferent to whether the doctor's education has been taken in Boston, Bucharest, Berlin or Bangkok or in Aalborg for that matter. The crucial thing is that the education meets Danish standards, that there is knowledge of Danish health legislation and the Danish health system, and that you can understand in Danish and communicate with patients and staff. Safe communication is a prerequisite for patient safety, and also, of course, professional qualifications are a prerequisite. Patient safety must, of course, come first. Today there are some 2,100 foreign doctors working in Denmark. They are a completely invaluable part of the Danish healthcare system. We need dedicated and talented doctors who are passionate about getting out and using their knowledge and skills together with their colleagues and creating a well-functioning healthcare system. We have a health service that is under pressure on resources, and this applies both to financial resources and to staff resources. We have a shortage of doctors in Denmark, and we are likely to have this for some time to come. Therefore, we must of course be grateful that there are doctors who choose to use their skills and qualifications in Denmark, but we must of course ensure that language and qualifications are in order wherever you have taken your education. But that is not the case today. If you have taken your education in a country that is not a member of the EU or is not an EEA country, you must meet a number of requirements that we have set out to ensure that languages and qualifications are in order • reasonable and reasonable requirements. You must have approved your diploma, you must pass language examination 3 with grades 7, 7 and 10, you must pass a course in Danish health legislation, you must pass both oral and written medical examinations, and finally you must carry out an evaluation assessment • quite reasonable and reasonable requirements, which have been made on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's assessment to ensure that language and qualifications meet Danish standards. After all, I have just had the Minister in consultation because, because of bureaucratic obstacles, sufficient resources have not been set aside in time to reduce the length of proceedings for applications for authorization from doctors coming from third countries. I assume that the Minister fully agrees that this injustice must be corrected, but it is a matter of resources. The demands that are being made are reasonable enough. Therefore, it is also completely incomprehensible that we do not make exactly the same demands on doctors who have taken their training in an EU country. We know that there is a great difference between the demands we make on a Danish medical specialist and the demands made in the EU recognition directive. This means that it is not the same for a doctor who has taken an education in an EU country if it is not at the level of what is expected of a Danish-educated doctor and for a doctor with an education from a non-EU country. The same demands are not being made. That is why, unfortunately, we have seen examples of doctors who, without having sufficient qualifications, have received authorisation and have worked in the health care system, with consequences for patient safety. We have seen examples of this in the Danish Radio documentary on doctors who had taken the training in an EU country but who obviously did not have sufficient competences. It should of course be stressed that these are absolutely exceptions. This is by no means the general picture, but it is deeply unhappy situations both for the patients affected, for the reputation of the health service, but also for all those doctors who, regardless of background, provide a dedicated and conscientious effort in the health care system every day. That is why we must do what we can to prevent doctors, without sufficient linguistic and professional qualifications, from being authorized to work in health care. We can do this by imposing similar requirements on doctors who want authorisation in Denmark, wherever they have taken their education, because of course the concern for patient safety must be over the consideration of EU law, and I assume that the health rapporteurs, the Minister for Health and the government are in complete agreement with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115651	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115659	Thanks to Enhedslisten for raising these questions with the Danish People's Party. We support the proposals. I would just like to talk about this with interpreters, because I fully agree with the rapporteurs who say that there is a national responsibility here which cannot be wiped out in the regions. I fully agree with that view. That is why I would also like to ask whether we could be in favour of putting patients' safety first in this area, so that we can solve something now, and then it may be when these things are implemented, and we will do better, that there is no longer a need for Danes to have the right to an interpreter, but right now we are just hearing and I know that the rapporteur himself has referred to the case out there, and we all agree that it is not working well enough now. So here's a solution where you can temporarily go in and support this. I don't believe that Danes will suddenly abuse this. I believe that they will say: if I sit before a doctor and cannot understand him or her and I am insecure, I will of course ask for an interpreter. But the Danes are not a greedy people in this way, and they will only do so when necessary. Could Enhedslisten support such a proposal from New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115802	I am very, very pleased that New Citizens also recognise that safe communication is a prerequisite for proper and related good health care. This is among other things. Therefore, we have discussed interpretation fee. And it should of course be the case that when you are a patient in the health care system in Denmark, you are sure that there can be a good tradition in relation to the diagnosis to be carried out, and in relation to the treatment you receive afterwards, and that you can also understand it. And it is clear that it will mean that, and it is being done today, that if communication with a doctor is not in order, then you try to make sure that communication is going to be good. It may be that another doctor comes in and helps explain it, and it may also be that it is a nurse. As we have seen in the study carried out by the Institute of Human Rights and the Medical Association, it can have huge consequences for those citizens here in Denmark who cannot speak Danish for the treatment they receive if you cannot make a real tradition. So I fully agree that if you come as a patient in the Danish healthcare system, we must ensure that the communication is in order and, of course, we must also ensure that the aids that are needed are made available. This is among other things. That is why we have proposed abolishing the fee for the interpretation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115912	Yes, we can agree there that it does not work right now, because there are patients who do not feel that they can understand their doctor and where it is not taken care of and where mistakes are made. So we're putting some action in the lake now, which hopefully in the long run will address these things. Then we can talk about everything else, but I cannot believe that Enhedslisten will not help to secure the rights of Danish patients in terms of being able to understand their doctor on the basis of a debate about whether foreigners should also have interpreters. That would be a strange premise. Then you do not put patient safety first, because then it will be about everything else Christiansborg policy, and I will not shoot Enhedslisten in the shoes anyway. So I would like to ask again whether it would be possible to support such a proposal which guarantees a right for Danish patients to an interpreter if they cannot understand or consider that they do not understand their doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123115958	We put patient safety at its highest, and it is completely independent of the cultural, linguistic or economic background with which you walk into health care. And that is why it is absolutely crucial to ensure that there is good communication between the doctor and the patient, and that is one of them. what we have seen documented. There is very, very clear evidence in that study by the Medical Association and the Institute for Human Rights that this is not the case today, and of course we have to solve that problem, whether you are a Danish citizen or whether you are rich or poor. When you come as a patient, you are entitled to ensure that there is proper communication, both for the sake of the treating physician, but of course also for the sake of the patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120038	Thank you very much, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments, which is why I am delighted to welcome Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120051	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party for resubmitting these two motions for resolutions that we are debating today. Unfortunately, we have been trained too few doctors in Denmark to meet the needs. This means that very many doctors in Danish hospitals are trained in other countries, both in EU countries and also in countries outside the EU. In North Jutland, where I live, approx. A quarter of the doctors are foreign. But no matter where doctors come from, we must never compromise the safety of patients. This means, for us Conservatives, that foreign doctors must meet exactly the same medical requirements as doctors trained in Denmark. Patients should be able to feel safe and in good hands when they either have to diagnose or are treated for a disease. Of course, patients should also be able to communicate with the doctor in a way that makes the patient feel well informed and sure of what should happen, but the patient should also feel sure that the doctor has understood the patient. There are plenty of examples of language barriers, which is why it is also time to tighten up, so we are absolutely sure that doctors who work in the Danish health system speak, read and understand Danish. Unfortunately, we have also seen numerous examples of doctors who do not meet the professional standards that can be expected in the Danish health service. I do not want to list the examples, but there are numerous stories. When we know that doctors are trained in many countries in a much shorter time than if you are trained as a doctor in Denmark, it is of course also important for the regions in their recruitment procedure to ensure that the qualifications are in order. So we Conservatives support the intentions of both proposals and are certainly looking forward to the committee work because, as I said, patients must be able to feel safe in the Danish healthcare system, regardless of where in the world the doctor and for that matter other health professionals come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120256	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120300	Thank you. I would also, of course, like to hear Conservatives' position on the temporary until we resolve the language problems that everyone recognises there. It doesn't work out there, and there are patients who feel insecure. They don't feel they can communicate with their doctor. Until we get the language level, qualifications and requirements up, will a right be guaranteed to Danes, that is, when they are in Denmark, they have a right to understand the doctor as well? And will it be ensured that it is a right, not something that the system should decide whether or not it needs, but that it is up to the patient whether he or she feels that he or she can understand his or her doctor - and if he or she cannot do so, does the patient have the right to have an interpreter, just as foreigners have the right to have an interpreter when they come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120341	At least it is certain that you have a right to understand it, i.e. the communication that is going on between the patient and the doctor. There should be no doubt about that. We must ensure that this is done, and this is done far along the way. Where I think the biggest problem may be, some patients may, if it is the case that there is a lack of communication and they do not quite understand what this is about, hold back from demanding that they be enlightened communicatively in such a way that they understand what is going on. Because there are other staff in hospitals on a large scale, so you should be able to make the communication work properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120428	That is the right that we in the New Citizens would like to give the patient. We're not gonna tell you how this interpretation is gonna work. We are just saying that citizens must have a right to interpret it so that they can understand the message. How they arrange it out there is retail management that we don't want to interfere with in here. But it is about the right of citizens. They don't have it now, and they don't feel that way, because they're going home from there, because the system says that's how it's supposed to be. Perhaps there is not someone else present, and then you have to accept what is there. And here we say that we can temporarily guarantee a right to citizens, to Danish citizens, so that they can understand the doctors they meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120508	I fully agree that it is incredibly important for communication to work so that both parties understand each other and there are no flaws there. But as I see it, it is possible to make communication work. As I said, I think it is actually a question of some people not claiming what holds back so intuitively and perhaps contenting themselves with something that they should not be satisfied with. So it might perhaps be suggested that they ensure that citizens are informed that they are entitled to the proper functioning of communication so that they are satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120552	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen from Conservative People's Party. Then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative who wants to enrich us with a rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120604	Thank you. In the alternative, of course, we believe, like all parties, that patients' safety and safety must come first. There is no doubt about that. We agree with the intentions of these proposals, and we agree that great demands must be made on the language and on the professional qualifications of foreign doctors, whether they come from EU countries or third countries. But we also think it is good that we have free movement in relation to labour and that we can make agreements in the European Union that guarantee it. And if the requirements for the authorisation of doctors in the European Union are not good enough, we want to challenge the European Union. During the previous examination of this proposal in 2018, we were informed by the regions that it is language consultants who are responsible for language testing in connection with recruitment that the regions use recruitment agencies to a large extent to recruit foreign doctors and that they also carry out language training. There's a need for those doctors. There are some regions that also offer mentoring programmes. There is generally a great deal of attention to linking language teaching to professional content, in other words, content in relation to what doctors should be able to do. So we rely on the regions to work seriously with it even when problems arise. However, we also support a dialogue with the regions, which are of course responsible for doctors, and we would like to discuss the linguistic needs. It is not necessarily all doctors who need to know Danish; it depends on whether they have patient contact or whether they may be sitting analyzing X-rays or blood tests, where English might be sufficient also to get more doctors into our system. If there is an over-representation of errors made by foreign doctors based in the European Union with regard to doctors based in Denmark or with regard to doctors based outside the European Union, we would like to know more about it so that we do not base our discussion on individual media cases. We need an enlightened basis for discussion. We would like to continue working in committee with the good intentions of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120819	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120822	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just need to be sure that I understand correctly when the rapporteur said that we were in favour of challenging EU law in relation to this. Because we are in complete agreement that it must of course be the case that people should be able to take training and cross borders, as do doctors from third countries. I believe that there are some 800 doctors from third countries and some 900 doctors from EU countries. I am not quite sure about the figures. And what this proposal is all about is that we make the same demands, no matter where you have taken your education, and it is so possible that it is going to compromise with EU law. I just have to understand it correctly, in relation to whether the rapporteur agrees that we must then challenge EU law, in other words take a case before the European Court of Justice, because the concern for patient safety must be over consideration of EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120915	That's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120920	Then we thank Mrs Susanne Zimmer and welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123120927	The quite logical story is that doctors who work in Denmark must of course be able to speak and understand Danish. It should be a completely unnecessary matter to have to debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. We just have a situation where it is the case that they cannot. I am glad that in fact all the parties here in the Folketing recognise that it does not work well enough at this stage and that therefore something will be done. And when you recognise that this does not work well enough now, you also recognise that the regions do not shoulder their responsibilities well enough, if you think it is the responsibility of the regions. Then I hear some people say: well, it's up to the regions to solve this, we don't want to interfere with that on the part of the Folketing. I have to say that we in the New Citizens' Party therefore have a different attitude. We believe that this is a national responsibility, and that is why, of course, we also take responsibility and have a position on this. We support Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti's proposals. We are happy to challenge the law of the heart and we are using every situation where we can do so. It cannot be right for the European Union to interfere in and dictate that we cannot set higher standards for patient safety than what the European Union wants. Of course, we must have the opportunity to say that we do not think that the standards that are in the European Union are high enough and that we want to go further, because we want to ensure the safety of patients. Then there should be no bureaucrats down in Brussels who say: No, no, you must be forced to have less security than you actually want in the Danish National Assembly. That can't be the point. That is why we in New Citizens have also proposed that we look at a right to interpreter so that until we solve this problem, which everyone now recognizes there, we ensure that we put patients first, so that they do not have to wait 1, 11⁄2, 2 years for this to actually be implemented and going out there. Because I think we can look each other in the eye and say that things we've decided in here aren't always going as fast as they are, being implemented and running. Until then, therefore, we have a great responsibility to ensure that patients who, in two weeks' time, three weeks or four weeks' time will meet the health care system feel safe and feel confident that they can understand the doctor. There we have a responsibility, and the responsibility lies with the people who come here and the system that provides a service to citizens. That's why citizens need to have a right to do this until it works. In fact, I hear from several parties that they can see that, and then I hear some who say that the regions themselves must take care of that. So some of the same parties say that foreigners who come here should have the right to an interpreter. But doctors who come here and cannot speak properly Danish, so the Danes can understand it and feel safe, do not have the right to an interpreter. It is sad that consideration for the European Union and the demand for foreign doctors and their rights are placed on the rights and safety of Danish patients. We have to recognise that the system is not working at this stage, because if it did, there was no reason why we were standing here and debating that some changes had to be made. If the regions lifted their employer responsibility, as some call it, then it would not be necessary either. Then the minister could have just lifted the index finger and said, "Hey, can you guys sort out your employer responsibility?" And then the regions could say: yes, we very much regret that; from now on we will see to it. But that is not the reality in which we live, and that is why we have to take responsibility in this Parliament. We support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121333	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121337	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just need to be sure that I understand the rapporteur correctly. The rapporteur says that it is important for doctors and patients to understand each other when communicating on health issues in health care. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121354	Absolutely, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121357	Thank you. So that means that when you talk about a right to interpretation, it will apply all around, and does this mean that New Citizens have changed their attitude to the interpretation fee, which we have been talking about abolishing for a long time at the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121411	No, we definitely haven't. Because here we have to make a distinction according to where the responsibility for your language lies. In New Citizens, we believe that integration is a personal responsibility. Then you are the one who comes to the country, who has a responsibility for you to be able to communicate; you are the one who has made the decision to move. And once you have chosen it, there is also a responsibility on you to communicate, and if you can't, you have to pay for it yourself. Similarly, here, where we say that it is doctors made available by the system, it is also the system's responsibility to pay for communication to work. So there is a fundamental difference between where responsibility rests and where the financial burden should then lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121455	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121457	Those are quite interesting considerations, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is doing this, because it is normal, when we talk about patient safety in health care, that we believe that health care is color-blind. There is no distinction between levels of education, money purses, cultural backgrounds, but it is said that health care must be able to ensure communication between patient and doctor precisely for the sake of patient safety, so as to avoid mistreatment, which is both detrimental to the patient, but also for health care. That's why I don't quite understand what kind of health care it is, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen speaks of, because it sounds as if there is a difference here, and it should be said here that there is a special requirement for the patient to be able to speak Danish. It could also be that there was a special requirement for the patient to be able to pay for certain benefits or a special requirement in relation to certain types of diseases, where there could then be a certain behavior to be avoided, for example. Which smokes for treatment. Is that the kind of health care and the kind of patient safety, sir? Lars Boje Mathiesen is talking about, or, as the rest of us are talking about it, is it a general consideration that patient safety is about the patients who go to health care and that everyone has the right to receive treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121618	I think you have to understand that there are two principles to this. One is that in New Citizens we have no problem distinguishing between the rights of Danish citizens and foreigners. We have no problem with that. In fact, we think that should be done. The second is that we do not object to there being a requirement that we should be able to understand each other in communication. We believe that it is sensible for doctors to be able to demand that an interpreter be sent to foreigners who cannot speak Danish. The disagreement then comes on the question of who should raise the bill for that communication. But we do not mind that there must be requirements so that communication works. We simply believe that it is the alien who comes here who must lift the financial burden on it, just as we believe that it is the system that draws foreign doctors to bear the financial burden for patients, the Danish patients to understand them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121717	But then we are not talking about patient safety. Because then we'll talk about who's gonna pay the bill. Today it is the case that both patients who are not receiving treatment pay the bill, and it is also the health services and all of us who pay the bill because mistakes are being made and misdiagnosed. So there's a bill to pay that way for all of us. When we talk about patient safety, it's just that when you walk in the door to health care, you need to be sure that you can get proper treatment, no matter what linguistic competence you have, regardless of your cultural background, regardless of your wallet. If you buy the other way of thinking, you will open up a completely different form of health care where there will be a segregation, because then you will be able to discriminate according to all kinds of parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121806	No, that is not quite correct, because under the current system we have patient safety. Because it's the doctor's responsibility. That's what it is. If the doctor does not feel there may be proper communication between the patient and the doctor, then the doctor has a medical responsibility to say that an interpreter is needed. After all, it is precisely a guarantee of patient safety on the part of the doctor at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121827	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121830	Thank you very much. I would also like to go into this debate on interpretation, where I think apples and pears are mixed. The fact that we have taken away the right to interpret when you have been here for three years is not just a question of patient safety. It has something to do with us doing people a disservice if, every time they turn to Danish authorities, they get a Danish interpreter made available. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that there is a big difference between coming as an immigrant who would like to live in a country and having to be in Danish society every day, every hour and being able to do all around, or whether you should meet a foreign doctor who comes and does a job, once or twice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121918	Well, it's two different groups. Basically, we in New Citizens believe that all integration is a personal matter. After all, we do not think that we should be right at all, even for one year's tax-financed interpretation. We believe that when you come to a country, it's your obligation as if I went to France or Spain or somewhere else, it was my obligation to be able to commit myself in the language so that I could function in the community to which I have gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121944	The questioner? No, I'm fine. We'll thank Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen and welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123121955	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, important that doctors are competent, and today it is also important that they listen to patients. That is why we support the ongoing review of both qualifications and language requirements. However, when we have to take a position on the proposal here, the concern for patient safety must be weighed against some other considerations. Of course, concern for patient safety weighs very heavily, and that is why we already have a acquis that looks both at qualifications and languages. However, in the second weight bowl, as several rapporteurs have said, the EU recognition directive is also a matter for us. In the second weight bowl, there is the role that it has to be possible for the regions to function and that, of course, the regions must be responsible for planning. And in the second weight bowl there is also, for our party, at least the idea or observation that a very significant cause of crisis around the public sector is over-regulation. It's political interference. What makes primary school work very badly is political interference. What makes high schools and universities work badly is political interference and detailed management. So we must manage our regulatory powers here in the Folketing if we are to make the health sector work and trust that we have a acquis that actually works. We are in favour of the rules on qualifications and language being strict and we are in favour of their being up-to-date. However, we are neither in favour of coming before the European Court of Justice nor in favour of holding back the regions or in favour of political interference and over-regulation. So even if the proposal is good, we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122224	You're welcome, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. Then we will end with the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Peder Hvelplund. In principle, however, there is always the possibility of taking a second round if the rapporteurs so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122247	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for once again holding the debate as I ran up here on the platform. I would like to thank you for the debate here today. As I have said, there is a debate that we have previously raised together • Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten • and there are also trends that every time it moves a little bit. If we are to take the positive thing first, I am very pleased that we have now come to the point where it sounds as if we can at least adopt a national requirement when it comes to languages. I think that is right, very positive, and I look forward to having the committee's work examined whether it will be possible to create a majority for it. Of course, what is crucial is that it becomes a national requirement and that it is in line with the demands we make of doctors who are trained in non-EU or EEA countries, in other words in what we call third countries. However, I think it is striking, when we have such a debate as this one, that throughout the debate I have not heard a single argument in favour of us doing that discrimination. There is concern for EU Now I just took the Medical Association's posture paper in relation to this, and they write: It is of course important that doctors, wherever they were born and trained, have the skills needed to operate in the Danish health care system, whether it be language, professional level or cultural understanding. Because, of course, it doesn't make any difference where you've taken the training. What is crucial is that languages and qualifications are in order. There must be equal treatment. We have subsequently received a request from the Dentists Organisation, who has also written to the Minister for Health. Now, unfortunately, we have not got that aspect in relation to dentists in this motion for a resolution, but they also write it quite clearly both in terms of languages where they are also in favour of one's demands, and they also write: At the same time, the organization of dental staff must encourage the establishment of a central and proactive system for testing the professional competences of foreign health professionals. This applies both to healthcare professionals from third countries and to healthcare professionals from another EU/EEA country. So there is recognition in the professional environments that this is a problem that we should address, and that is why I think it is a little depressing that the only argument we can find is the consideration of EU law. Because if this is about patient safety and if the health professional organisations say that this is what is needed in their work, should we not take their approach seriously and say: okay, let us take a test at the European Court of Justice? Is it really true that EU law here stands in the way of patient safety? However, I think it is necessary to challenge it, which is why I would also like to acknowledge the comments that have come from both the New Civil and the Alternative, which I can also hear is willing to take up the confrontation with EU law. Because I think it is absolutely necessary. This isn't about it being a hetz against foreign doctors. There are 2,100 foreign doctors working in Denmark, and they do it fantastic, and we have talked about it in the past about the need for us to ensure that additional resources are added to the Board of Patient Safety, so that we can ensure that the case post for doctors coming from third countries can be passed, so that the skilled and dedicated doctors who have actually passed both medical examinations and have knowledge of Danish health care, the language test, can also get the authorization, so that they can also get out and get an evaluation appointment and subsequently get a certificate. This is absolutely necessary, because we need skilled foreign doctors, and there should be no doubt that it is sensible to be able to travel across borders and use your qualifications. No one questions that either. But, of course, we must have the opportunity to make national demands. That is our responsibility. It is we who are saying what it takes to get a licence so that you can get a job, and that is not enough simply to shift responsibility to the regions and say that they are recruiting authorities, so that this alone is their responsibility. It is also their responsibility, but it is also ours. We must ensure the level of authorization and they must choose the doctors they think best suited to the positions they just want to occupy. That is why we need to make some demands from in here, and that is why it is probably not the last time we are going to have this debate. Now I look forward to seeing in the committee's work whether we can reach agreement on a joint report on setting objectives for language requirements. The committee's work will show if we can, but in terms of qualifications I still lack the good answer to: what are we going to say to the organization of staff Dentists? What are we gonna tell the Medical Association? How do we explain to them that here we distinguish between not what qualifications people have but where they have taken their education? Because that doesn't make any sense. However, I look forward to continuing the debate, and I would also like to thank and acknowledge the good cooperation we have had with the Danish People's Party in raising this issue again. If nothing else can we at least see, I could see that Mrs Liselott Blixt has now experienced the praising of a tweet from the Medical Association. I do not think that will happen every day, so if nothing else has come out of this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122837	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122844	Thank you. And thank you again for making the proposal. I would just be a little disappointed by the rapporteur's conclusions in relation to the debate, which I really think is very much in favour of the views that the proposal aims to promote. However, when the rapporteur concludes that it is the consideration of EU law that is the reason why we are not going to do anything, I think that I really think I have heard a great many others say that we already have a great many options. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that no one is forcing the regions to hire doctors who do not have the necessary qualifications, and no one is forcing the regions to hire doctors who do not master the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123122935	Of course, Mrs Kisten Normann Andersen is absolutely right about that. And I am sorry if I was too pessimistic in my interpretation of the debate here today. I just think it is quite clear that we are facing a problem today. Well, there's a problem with patient safety. We've seen that in several cases. This is also why we get inquiries from both the Medical Association and the organization of dental practitioners, and they are not the only ones. It is, of course, because we recognise that there is a problem. Yeah, that's right. But it is not by chance when we look at the cases that have been, that they have just been in Region Sjælland and Region Nordjylland, namely where the medical shortage is greatest. And if we do not take responsibility and ensure that the doctors who can get out of work have the appropriate level of qualification, then we risk compromising on quality. And that is where we have a responsibility, of course also in relation to helping them deal with the challenge of medical shortages that they face. But this must not be done at the expense of patient safety or on the basis of the fact that we are reducing the qualification requirements that we are imposing on the doctors who are going to work there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123043	I therefore agree that it would be good if it were the case that the Danish Health Service could also be a little faster in trying to approve some of the certificates that might be needed. This could also be looked at, just as I believe that one can inspire one another in order to raise the level of education in different contexts. This is also true in health areas other than exactly in relation to doctors. However, I myself have been involved in attempts to hire Indian doctors and then found that this did not happen for linguistic reasons and, in fact, sometimes for professional reasons. So is it not still locally that one would best be able to make decisions about what actually is enough when it comes to competences?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123131-2	It is also, of course, where I am lacking that we are making exactly the same demands that the Danish Health Authority has made for doctors coming from third countries to doctors coming from EU countries, so that they will also apply to them. Because it is no coincidence that we have seen the series of cases that have taken place, and that is why I also believe that we have a national responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123208	Sir. Jens Rohde from his own place, if he wants the floor. Will Mr. Jens Rohde have the floor? No!). Then we go ahead and thank the rapporteur. Does the Minister for Health and the Elderly want to speak? No. So there is no one else who wishes to speak. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123247	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123123312	Thank you. We have now reached this proposal, which will require the government to put forward a legislative proposal to amend health legislation by 1 February of this year, so that elderly people who have lost their age will have the right to opt out of resurrection attempts. This proposal is, after all, similar to the proposal that I myself am preparing and negotiating with the parties of the Folketing. I must therefore say from the outset that the government fully supports the purpose and purpose of the proposal. Today, indeed, the legislation does not provide for the possibility that an ill old citizen who is not at the same time ill can be sure of being resurrected at cardiac arrest. This is because the rules of the Health Act on consent to failure to provide treatment are only relevant where there is something to process and thus something to consent to or choose not to consent to. The Board of Patient Safety's guidance on resuscitation and selection of resuscitation experiments, as mentioned in this motion for a resolution, also states that general ageing alone does not allow us to opt out of revival attempts, as the rules are today. So the instructions describe the applicable law. The guide therefore also states that health professionals must always try to revive an elderly citizen whose heart stops beating if the citizen is only old and not sick. If we want to change the law in force, then we need a change of law. I can see that the proposers are also aware of this. This resolution therefore requires the government to take such a legislative initiative. If we are to be completely honest: can we avoid unworthy attempts to revive older people against their wishes? • resurrection attempts, which we know means broken ribs and perhaps even brain damage • we must avoid it. The government would therefore like to take the initiative to establish a legal basis for enabling citizens to secure against such revival attempts. A good old life is basically about the right to one's own life and thus also about the right to a dignified death. It is therefore important to respect older citizens who want death to occur naturally when the heart stops beating. In fact, I think we could all agree on that. In the government we have therefore drawn up a proposal which means that, from the age of 18, you can register yourself if you do not want to be revived after cardiac arrest. But the opt-out here will only have to take effect, i.e. only if you come to a nursing home later or are otherwise in daily contact with the health or care sector. In practice, the proposal will require the establishment of a central register in which relevant healthcare professionals can easily and quickly gain direct access to information about the citizen's opt-out of resuscitation. This is precisely something that needs to be done quickly, because it is the staff of the guard centres, ambulance rescuers, the hospital staff, the nursing staff in the municipalities and general practitioners who must be able to obtain information. The solution we are proposing in the government must be seen from a broader perspective, as it must not only ensure that healthy elderly people who are in daily contact with the health or care sector are entitled to a dignified death. The solution must also help sick citizens who already have the opportunity to opt out of resurrection. This means that it is ill citizens who opt out of resuscitation as part of a current disease situation. Today it is the case that such an opt-out is recorded in the file, but unfortunately it is not always passed on when the patient moves to another sector, for example. when the patient is discharged from the hospital to the municipal nursing home. Our proposal is that these citizens will be able to register in the database that they do not want revival when their hearts one day stop beating. The registration system must therefore apply more generally, as we propose. After all, we cannot escape the fact that it is also something that needs to be included in the IT systems that are used, which must therefore both support more self-determination for the citizen and reduce insecurity among staff. So it is our intention to establish a central register in which the citizen can register his opt-out of resuscitation. The register's information must be integrated into the personnel's professional systems in hospitals, nursing homes, security centres, etc. A central register accessible to the relevant staff would thus be good for those citizens who do not want resuscitation, but also for the staff, who may, of course, today experience an uncertainty as to whether an opt-out of resuscitation, taken by the citizen or by the doctor in the context of a current treatment situation, continues to apply. That is, for example, the case. in connection with the return of the citizen after hospitalization to the nursing home. It is my clear view that the solution that the government has on the drawing board is the right one if we really want to move something in this area. It is no use giving the citizen a right if it does not reach all the relevant staff groups that the citizen has thus exercised that right. It is also very high on the agenda to create clarity and legal certainty for staff. I understand that there are others who are very, very concerned about this. We are also concerned about this in the government. It is not reasonable for staff to be insecure about whether or not to try to resurrect them, and for many it is also about their responsibilities as health professionals. Therefore, our proposal for a central register, which can be accessed from staff's own professional systems, will contribute to the staff having the relevant knowledge about the opt-out of resuscitation and, above all, about the citizen's own wishes for the last time in life. So with regard to this specific motion for a resolution, I have to say that we in the government fully agree with the proposers. And the parties negotiating the allocation of funds to the pool called "The Good Life of the Elderly" have also already had an initial discussion over in the Ministry of Health and the Elderly about the possibility of finding funds for this initiative, so that we put action behind words and really ensure that a right to opt out of resuscitation can work in practice. So we can only support the purpose and purpose of this proposal. We will do our best to find political support for an initiative in this area to become a reality, including the funding that is therefore also the ongoing negotiations. I can't use the money until there's a parliamentary majority ready to be a part of it. I also think it is important to involve all relevant parties in the process in order to ensure that such new rules and IT support are designed in a way that makes sense in practice. We must remember that there is no time to look up a thousand registers when you are in such a situation with someone who has a heart attack. In addition, on 6 February, the item on the opt-out of resuscitation is again on the agenda of the meeting of the ethics committee. And during the spring it is my plan to involve the other relevant actors, the Elders Case, KL, the Danish Nursing Council, the Medical Association, etc., in order to get all relevant input before drawing up and submitting a bill, which must therefore first be financed and then be made in detail. To conclude, therefore, we hope that in the next few days we will reach agreement on a real right to opt-out of cardiac arrest, so that we show that we are putting action behind words when we say that we are working to help give people the right to a dignified death. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124209	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first is from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124216	Thank you very much. I think we are talking about two very different things. After all, we have not discussed at all what the Minister is currently talking about and discussing. And if it had been about this, it would have been nice to have an invitation. This is about how you've been able to say in the past when you went to a nursing home: I don't want to be revived. But after the Danish Health Authority made two new guides, it was defined, and then came a new guide saying that you have no possibility of opting out of resurrection attempts. In fact, that's all we want to change. We were in the process of doing so under the former Minister for Health. It shouldn't cost any money, it should just be a right, so when you came as an elderly person and were part of the home care, or in a nursing home, you had this transfer conversation, where you talk about how you want to be treated, how you want your relationship, and how you want to have a worthy death. And in this way the elderly have been able to say in the past: I do not want to be revived. And then you followed it. This cannot be done according to the new counsel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124325-2	In relation to the solution that the government is working with, the Danish People's Party is also invited and has been to the first meeting about it. But when I mention it, it is because it is the solution that also makes sense and can also ensure that it is implemented in all the employee groups that will be relevant, and so you do not have to find out exactly whether to start revival or not, and what is really the citizen's wish in this situation. And to the guidance itself, which was indeed changed: it is a guide which describes the rules in force in this area, and that is to say that if we want the guidance to be changed, the law must also be amended. And that is what I am saying: it will also cost some money, because then we will have to ensure that it will be something that we know and can use wherever it is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124428	Our proposal does not cost money. That is a change in the text. I do not think we agree at all that we should be able to say and write it down at the age of 18 that we do not want to be revived. Because that raises a great many other issues that we have actually discussed with the Ethics Council in the past. So these are two very different proposals. This is just that doctors can advise their elderly patients that you can say off and say to the nursing staff that you don't want resuscitation. Can the Minister not see that there are two different cases in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124503-2	After all, we can easily discuss when, i.e. whether it is from 18 years or when. I'm sure we can do that. But there it is absolutely crucial and I also described it in my speech that all healthcare professionals you meet will have access to such a register, that is. municipalities, general practice, rescue staff and others. And that is what we have the problem of not having them today, and that is what you put your employees in an almost impossible situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124538	Then we shall proceed to the next question, Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124544	Thank you. I would like first to sign for the Minister's speech. We fully agree that a good life for the elderly is also linked to the right to life. When I ask a question, this is because there is also something called a treatment testament, where you can record that you do not want life-long treatment, including revival attempts at cardiac arrest, if you get into a situation where you are not able to express your wishes yourself as it stands directly. What is the difference between the government's approach and the treatment testament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124621	That's right. If you have a diagnosis, and if you, for example, have a diagnosis. is in a terminal phase of a disease, then you have a number of options to say how the treatment should then be carried out in the next stages. This proposal, as I read it, is quite clearly much more broad, which means that it applies generally to people who are healthy but who are in daily contact with caregivers, for example. in a nursing home. Those people will not be able to make use of the current treatment testament, but there it will be a more general and broad system that ensures that everyone will be able to make that choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124710	Thank you. I think that's a good idea, but if you just go to health.dk and read about the treatment testament, it's a scheme that we all in here and all other Danes, who aren't currently. That is why I would like to ask how it can be, because I do not really understand the difference. Because this is a solution which I fully support, by the way, the treatment testament idea, that is to say that you have to have the opportunity and I have actually done so myself to write that you do not want resuscitation if you have to get into that situation. Then I'd like to ask you, 'cause I don't really see the big difference between it and this scheme here... how we spend our money best. It's really crucial for me to find out. How do we ensure the best possible treatment and assistance for our citizens? The treatment test ensures that it is already possible to do so at this stage. So I'd like to know, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124811	Thank you for that question. Now, in 30 seconds, I shall explain it, and it is probably a little impossible to do that in detail. So I think I just want to maintain a slightly more general view of it and say: this is about the right to a dignified death. For many people, it will be very intrusive and against their desire that when the heart stops beating, you start with resuscitation. These people are a broader group than those to which the treatment test relates. And if you want a wider group, you also have to make a broader solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124847	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124849	Thank you. The Minister now mentions the ongoing negotiations on the good living of the elderly. Of course, the Minister and the government are entirely free to propose initiatives that point in all directions. I would just like to call for attention to be paid to the very good elderly life and not to propose initiatives that, as such, cover the whole population, given that we now have a special focus. I would like to ask the Minister something. After all, it is the guidance that is the challenge here. After all, it is the guidance that is wrong in terms of what to say, the desire, the intention, which is, after all, behind the broad political agreement, of which the Socialists were also a part. I would just like to ask: what is it that prevents this proposal from being made by the Danish People's Party, which is excellent, from being made part of the treatment testament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123124947	One of the headlines for exactly the debate that we are doing now, which is even made before I became Minister myself and where the Left is with the letter is called the right to a worthy death. This is about the right of elderly citizens to a dignified death. That's why it lives 100 percent. up to the criteria and the headlines and the purpose behind the debate that lies there. My point in relation to the Danish People's Party's proposal here is that, as I have said, I fully support the intentions behind it that it is absolutely crucial that when the law is to be changed, and it must, because we can see from the guidance that describes the current rules that it needs to be changed, we must also ensure that there is a system that ensures that it is not an empty shell, an empty guarantee that we give to our fellow citizens, but that we ensure that it is also something that is complied with when you are in this situation. And it's an emergency situation when there's a heart attack, and you have to make sure that ambulance drivers, paramedics and doctors are all in contact with our older fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125106	So, I do not think there is anyone here or anywhere else in the Kingdom of Denmark who, what to say, doubts that we in the Left support in every way that one should have a worthy death. I look forward to the government coming up with a bill on this matter. After all, the government is free to table any legislative proposal, and we will deal with it with great respect from the Left when we are going to have it in the Chamber. It would just be nice if the Minister would reply to what it is that prevents you from expressing your desire, when you go to a nursing home, that you do not want to be revived. You can simply introduce it into the treatment testament in connection with the transfer interview that you have in a nursing home. What's preventing it, except for the instructions here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125201	There is the point, of course, that if we do not ensure it, it is completely untenable. It's the last wish you have, it's the desire for how to get out of here. It is so central and important, and that is what it is all about. But you can just talk to our employee groups in general today, and then you're told that it's a great deal of frustration and that it's going on under extreme pressure, where you're not quite sure what this older person's wish is and what's going to happen in this situation. I think that is absolutely untenable. So if you support this, and we do that by the government, you are also obliged to find some funding, so we have some systems within which our employees can act, in respect of this wish. That is what the government is working to finance in the concrete pool that we are going to be negotiating here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125259	Thank you, Minister. There's a colleague, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party, who has kept the Minister's chair warm in the meantime, and he now has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125315	We must ensure that all older people have more influence on their last lifetime and that all older people can be guaranteed a dignified end to life. With the motion for a resolution here, B 53, the Danish People's Party will require the government to submit before 1 February a legislative proposal for the right of elderly citizens to opt out of resurrection attempts. Social democracy can fully support the intentions of the proposal, as well as we fully support the proposal launched by the Minister for Health and the Elderly before Christmas, where the Minister proposed to establish a digital register so that all senior citizens can register that they do not want revival attempts if, as old people, they are affected by cardiac arrest. Basically, it is about guaranteeing older citizens the right to have a much greater influence on the end of their own lives and thus also a dignified death. And it is a question of creating a clear legal position for staff in the care of the elderly and in health care, so that it is not they who have to decide whether an elderly person should be resurrected and then it can be proved that it was the elderly person himself who had opted out of the revival attempt. As we also heard from the Minister just now, such a solution is being worked out at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. I also know that there are discussions with the other parties to find the means to develop such a digital solution that can solve these challenges. The proposal here obliges the government to table a bill by 1 February. It is in a week's time, and it is not permissible. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here either. However, as I said, we fully support the intention and hope that we will soon be able to agree on and present an overall solution. Finally, I must say that the SF is prevented from being here because of committee meetings, but they also feel covered by my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125530	That's good. Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lone Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125536	As I understand it, what you're discussing with the minister is that at the age of 18 you can say that when you get old, you don't want to be revived. Does the rapporteur seriously believe that at the age of 18, at the age of 20, you can tell us how you feel when you get older?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125553	But there will certainly be some who want to use that opportunity, that is, to say that if they suffer cardiac arrest as old-age sufferers, they will not be subjected to a revival attempt. There will certainly be some who do not think they are prepared to take a stand on it; that will probably be the majority. And, of course, it must be in that way that you can make your decision over your lifetime, even if you come on other thoughts or find out in dialogue with family etc. that you want to reverse that decision. Should this be possible? What is crucial here is that we gather the information and expressions so that it is quickly and easily accessible to the health or care workers who are suddenly in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125648	I am surprised when we have a government that says that bureaucracy is to be abolished, that bureaucracy is now being worked up which means that, at the age of 18 and all the way in life, you can change your position up to several times without knowing how you actually feel when you are old. What creates the least bureaucracy that you can change a guide here and now, or that you have to make a bill for a new database that costs 27 million. kr., and where, at the age of 18, you get asked the question whether you want to be revived or not when you get old?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125722	What creates the least bureaucracy and what creates the greatest patient safety and the best patient rights is that there are clear lines. Such a database is about ensuring that there are clear lines, so that it is actually ageing older people who can make use of the bill that was adopted here widely and with the support of the Danish People's Party earlier on, where we actually want older people to be able to make use of it here. So that would have to be guaranteed by a database like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125752	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125754	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask briefly: what is it that prevents you, as an ordinary citizen of this country, from entering your wish into the treatment testament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125806	I am sure that the rapporteur from the Left will follow in and experience some of the same stories in the media as I do, and probably talk to as much health care professionals as I do, so I suppose that the Left too recognises the issue here. After all, it is a major dilemma in the nursing homes and throughout our health sector that they do not feel that they have the right conditions for actually not doing any revival attempts, even if the elderly did not do so, and that is, of course, the problem that the government wants to solve. We support the intentions of the Danish People's Party and are ready to solve this together in peace and harmony.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125907	Yes, the Left fully recognizes the problem, but I am just surprised that neither the Minister nor the Socialist rapporteur can answer what it is that prevents you from writing your wish in the treatment testament. I would very much like to give the rapporteur another chance and, of course, I can also put a written committee question to the Minister if it is only really difficult to answer. I think it's quite honest talk just to say: we don't actually know that, but we're gonna have to dive into that. That's honest talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123125946	But the Left must ask all the questions that the Left needs to ask, both in one way and in another. If there is a need for clarification, I do not need to allow it as a Socialist rapporteur. The left just has to do what you feel is best. However, these are two slightly different things, and what we need to ensure is what is the task in here, as I see it, is that there is clarity and that there is information that is readily available at this critical time, when you are suddenly faced with an ageing elderly person who may have an attack or are about to die, so that you can access this information quickly wherever you are in the care sector or healthcare sector. That is what we must ensure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130037	No one else has asked for the floor to speak to Mr McMillan-Scott. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. The next is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130052	Thank you for the floor, and a special thanks to the Danish People's Party for putting the revival and opting out of resuscitation to debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we have something to choose from through life and that we can live the life we have chosen ourselves. This also applies when life is nearing its end, or when nature has determined that the heart should no longer beat. A dignified death is and has been an essential focal point for us in the Left, and not least in the last period when we had government responsibility. There is no formula or recipe for what a dignified death is for a size, but we can politically ensure that the framework for how we get from here is as clear and as clear as possible, with respect for the wishes of the individual, the relatives, the health professionals and, of course, ethics and morality. Because this is not an easy issue and there can be many correct answers to how life's end can, must or should be. The fact that there is a great deal of interest in the concept of a dignified death really dawned on me when I took part in the event with the Ethical Council and the National Sorgcenter in Odense. Not only was the hall filled to the breaking point, but there was also a waiting list for the event. And you might ask yourself why the very theme of a worthy death fills so much. Is it because we all know for sure we're gonna die? Is it because we're getting older? Or is it because new technological possibilities for resuscitation or to keep us alive or to treat affects us in the present, even if nature had planned something else for us? I do not know the answer, but I know that no matter who we are, dignity, even at the end of life, is an important focus for us in the Left. Most live a long life, and many die of old age fortunately. Many would like to die in their own homes in familiar surroundings with the family or other relatives very close, and I understand that. Yet 44 percent die. by the Danes in hospital, and only 24 per cent. die in your own home. As rapporteur for the elderly, I have been pushing for several years to increase the right of the elderly to self-determination, and I was sincerely happy when, across all the parties of the Danish Parliament in 2017, we agreed to guarantee patients' right to say stop • to say stop to a initiated vital treatment, even if this meant that the patient would die immediately after. This was an important step in the right direction: more self-determination. It was also an important step in the right direction when the VLAK government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Danish Finance Act for 2018, set aside 60 million. kr. to a lasting boost to the municipalities to support the municipalities' work in creating a good framework for a dignified death for our elderly. The money could, for example. are used for additional staff or involve voluntary wake-up services. From 1 January 2019, the new treatment testaments came into force, and it makes sense that we can all decide, for example, whether or not we can. we want life-prolonging treatment or resuscitation while we are at the full use of our senses, if one day we end up in a situation where, for example, we find ourselves in a situation where we find ourselves. Because of dementia itself can't rightly express what we want. The treatment test ensures the individual's right to self-determination and a dignified death. Now there has been a new guide to opting out of resuscitation and revival attempts, and precisely the interpretation of the law on which the guidance is based is the reason why we are debating the subject today. On the Left side, we share the view that it should be possible for an elderly, capable, aged citizen to choose from revival. We are therefore fully in line with the proposers, the Danish Society for Patient Safety, the Elders Case and Danske Patients, who have expressed in various ways that the new guidance impairs the ability of older and generally weakened citizens to self-determination. And we wonder why the government, led by the Minister for Health and the elderly, has been so slow and because in response to the Danish Parliament it has been said that the matter would only be discussed at the meeting of the ethical community in February, but now the government saved itself by inviting negotiations and discussions last week. And now we are here, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for insisting on an earlier discussion. On the Left side, we can support the proposal and hope that we can agree, perhaps on a joint report, among the parties of the Folketing, because this is an area in which ethics is involved and in which we have traditionally made broad political agreements, and I hope that the current government will also give priority to working that way. I listened intensely to the Minister's speech, and I note that the government will take the initiative on legislation in this area, and of course we on the Left look forward to discussing this here in the Parliamentary Assembly. And we also hope that the government will take the initiative to change the current guide, which is, after all, a sign of a dignified death for all, and that, for example, as I said, it could be in a joint report which states, also on the part of the Socialists, that we want to change the existing guide. As I also mentioned, we look forward to seeing the bill which the government seems to be proposing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130623	Thank you. There is one question from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130627	Thank you very much for your statement. I think I am now taking it to the vote because I think there are many ambiguities and there is too much distinction between different ways in which this can be done. What we are talking about here, I want to hear the rapporteur's opinion on this, because it is a reinterpretation of the right to renounce revival. And given that it's a reinterpretation, shouldn't you be able to send this to the Health Service and say, "You probably made a mistake?" That is what is being pointed out, both by the Medical Association, the Danish Nursing Council, the Elders Case, etc., and that they cannot wait until you get a completely new register and data system and money on the table, and I don't know what. Could it not be passed on and then a different interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130716	Yes, I have to be honest and say that on the Left side, we also wonder why the government is completely on the heels of this case and has all the parades up and now it seems to have a huge IT setup of over 26 million. kr., as the author mentioned earlier. We are very surprised to see that I have to be honest with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130740	Then no one else has asked for the floor to speak to Mrs Jane Heitmann. On the other hand, we can go further in the rapporteur's line. I can see that Mrs Liselott Blixt reserves her time for later. So here it is, sir. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123130812	Thank you, sir. President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. The purpose and purpose of this proposal we fully support. It can then be done in different ways. It is important for us as Radicals that each individual should be able to decide his own life. We therefore believe that we should listen to all the key parties on this overriding issue of respect for life and death, which one day hits us all and those we care about. By its very nature, it is not that simple. It is absolutely essential that we listen to all the experts in this area and that we also look at practice. As the Minister for Health said, a good elderly life is linked to the right to life. We fully agree with that. Shortly before my father died, he was asked if he would be revived if he had a heart attack. His answer was no, and it is now almost four years since he died. When my mother was hospitalized with a broken rib last week, she was asked if she would be revived if she had a heart attack. She said no, and luckily she's home again. So practice is still that you respect the desire of elderly people to avoid being revived if they have cardiac arrest. That's really positive. Practice works and respects the individual. The idea of the treatment testament, which the Minister and others have also mentioned, can be read at www.health.dk. It is good and takes into account the wishes of the individual. In a treatment testament one can record that one does not want life-long treatment, including revival attempts at cardiac arrest, if one comes into a situation where one is unable to express one's own wishes. It works and must now be included in a major evaluation, I hope. It could be a question of information about this treatment testament. Do people even know it exists? The reason why we are here today is that recently the guidance on resuscitation and selection of resuscitation attempts was changed. The aim was to make it more manageable, clear and operational. As part of this process, the wording on opting out of resuscitation attempts has been changed. Older capable citizens can no longer opt out of resurrection attempts or life-long treatment due to old age alone. In addition, it must also be said that citizens are in a so-called current state of illness. This means that health professionals must always try to revive an elderly citizen who falls down due to, for example, cardiac arrest if not the citizen besides old age also has a documented current disease. It doesn't really differ from the medical vow, it's kind of like it. However, the challenge is if a citizen has indicated that he or she wishes to opt out of revival attempts. I therefore have great respect for the fact that the Elders Sagen and the Patient Association Denmark draw attention to the worrying aspect of this. While the Elders case points out that this is a serious restriction on the individual citizen's right to self-determination, Danske Patients state that, with the revision of the guidance, the patient's self-determination has been effectively curtailed, as ageing no longer in itself allows for the possibility of opting out of life-long treatment. It is also about what the Danish Society for Patient Safety expresses. It is important that we listen to the elderly. It's important that we listen to the Elders Case. It is important that we listen to Danish patients and to patient organisations and, above all, to the elderly and the staff. And it is important that we listen to the Ethical Council, which I know has a meeting on this in the near future. At the same time, I understand that the Minister of Health is taking part in these negotiations myself... intending to carry out a major evaluation of the whole area. We would therefore call on the Danish Parliament to look at what these evaluations achieve, and listen to the Elders Case, Danske Patients, the Ethical Council, professionals, doctors, nurses, sosu assistants who come at home with people, and citizens. I would urge that this be done before the Folketing finally takes a position on how to give the individual citizen the most dignified farewell to life. I would like to take an active part in this process and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131248	Thank you. There is a reply/question from Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131255	Thank you very much, and thank you for your support. I would like to hear from the rapporteur because I had some doubts as to how long the rapporteur will be waiting for this. Those mentioned by the rapporteur himself, the Elders case and the Medical Association, say that this is a matter of urgency. This was changed from November 1, 2019, and there are doctors who have written to the entire committee and asked: What are we going to do? We teach healthcare professionals, we come out and we talk to the elderly, and now we have to tell them that they come in to the 102-year-old, who they know does not want to resurrect, then they have to resurrect. How long will the rapporteur wait? Because, as I hear the Minister, a new IT system will take a very long time to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131346	Thank you for the question. I fully agree with Liselott Blixt that we should not wait very long. That is also why, in my questions to the Minister, I have drawn attention to the treatment test. Perhaps the question is whether we can actually use the treatment test, which allows us to wish that we do not want revival if we have cardiac arrest. The question is really whether what is missing is information; whether the citizens know enough that it exists; whether it is obvious information. It could be important that both citizens and employees who work with citizens could be sosu assistants, nurses, doctors etc. So perhaps it is a question of how we can use what we have actually established to develop it and to do better instead of inventing something new that may have already been invented. So the starting point is simply to find out how things work. So for us it is a matter of finding out whether it works well enough, including among others. the treatment will. But we don't have much patience in this area. Something has to happen. It is important to respect the individual's life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131455	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131456	I am very pleased with the rapporteur's report. I'm also very fond of the treatment testament. It was the Danish People's Party that pushed it through when it wanted to introduce a law for inhabile. That is why it is also where we see that it is natural for it to be put, in that it is where you go in and want how you want to be treated when you cannot answer yourself. But thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131525	Thank you, and thank you for the treatment testament initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131527	No one else has asked for the floor. And the next person who should have spoken is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF, but she is also chairman of the committee and has a committee meeting now and therefore cannot be in the Chamber and there has been a greeting from there, so I now give the floor to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131539	Thank you for that, President. In the Enhedslisten, we are in complete agreement with the Danish People's Party in the intentions of this proposal. And I can also hear that there is a broad consensus among the parties on the fact that it is a completely inappropriate change that has been introduced into the guidance and it has created an unacceptable legal status both for health professionals, for relatives and for the elderly. For, of course, it must be the case that capable citizens must have the right to opt out of revival attempts because of ageing. This should be a completely basic right, as has been the case in the past. It is based on the fact that guidance has been changed, i.e. guidance in relation to the choice of life-long treatment. And this is a revision which has been needed and which has led to sensible changes. But precisely in this area, it has also made it clear that it has called for a change in interpretation of the legislative text. And the new interpretation means that you can only opt out of resuscitation in a current disease situation and that the decision only applies to current and overall treatment courses. This means that you can no longer opt out of resuscitation because of general ageing. And that is also where this is different from the treatment test, because the treatment test relates precisely to the situation in which one has made a decision, but where one has become ill, that is, where one has become demented or where one is as inactive in a sick bed, and it also requires medical intervention in order to activate the treatment test. What we are talking about here is, of course, that capable citizens can opt out of treatment simply because of age impairment. However, this is an unacceptable situation both for the elderly, who should be able to make the choice themselves, whether they want to be revived, but also for the health care provider who has to decide whether it is a current disease situation or whether it is a general age decrease. That is why, of course, we need to change the status so that it will be possible for able citizens over 18 years of age to opt out of revival at cardiac arrest if they are to become treatment- or care-intensive one day and that information becomes available to the relevant health professionals. That is why we also support the intention of the proposal, and it is absolutely to the credit of the Danish People's Party that they have pressed for a solution. But when we cannot immediately support the bill, it is because right now, together with the Danish People's Party and the Danish Parliament's other parties, we are in negotiations to change the law precisely so that such a solution will be possible here. And that is why we are also looking forward to reaching agreement as soon as possible on amending the law and finding the necessary means to finance the changes in IT systems that seem to be necessary. After all, it is annoying that we need to spend money on it, but if that is what is necessary, we must, of course, do so because we must ensure that the information is made available to all relevant health professionals who may find themselves in the specific situation. But we see no reason to start a parallel process on a motion for a resolution when, in a relatively short space of time, hopefully, we can resolve the problem in a negotiation process that we are already in the process of doing. So we do not support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to finding a solution to the problem, so that we can resolve the issue which the motion for a resolution quite appropriately points to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131904	There are two who have signed up for brief remarks to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, and the first is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131910	I would like to start by saying that we cannot agree to a legislative proposal that allows you to say, at the age of 18, how you want to feel like old age. So it will be without us, without a settlement with the Danish People's Party. That is why I would like to know whether this is something that will be voted against when it comes to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123131930	Yes, as it seems right now, because I think it is entirely relevant that you as an adult, capable citizen can make this decision. In other words, it would be strange if an age limit were to be set for when to make this decision. What is possible with the solution we are about to find here is that through NemID you can go in and make a decision on how you want to be treated as elderly. You can do that at the age of 18, and you can wait until you are 45 or 65 years old. It is entirely up to the citizen himself. But it has to be the case that we allow that when you are of age and capable, you can make that decision if that's something you feel you need. People can face very different life situations and also think: right now, in the life situation I am in, it's the sensible choice... so I can always change it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132016	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132017	As I said, this is not something that we in the Danish People's Party can support. We just want us to change the direction that lies. And that is where I ask: will the Enhedslisten's rapporteur help us to try to get the Danish Health Service to change the guidance that lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132032	Well, of course, we will help try to get the Danish Health Service to change the instructions. But that is what has been tried and the interpretation has been quite clear, so that with the legislative text there has just been a change of direction, so that it has come to look as it does today. Then we can say that it was stupid and that they have to change that. This is hardly going to happen, and that is why we have to deal with how it is that the Danish Health Authority interprets the legislative text, and hence the guidance that lies there. And that is what we are doing in the course of the negotiations that have been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132103	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132104	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur is aware of the benefits of the treatment test, but there are also some clear shortcomings in it and it could be considerably better than it is now, so the question is this: will the rapporteur be able to imagine that the Enhedslisten would help improve the treatment testament and look at the possibilities of improving it rather than creating a completely new system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132132	In my optics, it is precisely here that we improve the treatment testament, because the situation we are facing today is that the treatment testament applies in the situation where you, as an able citizen, relate to the situation that you have become incompetent and cannot make a decision, and then you can opt out of having a life-long treatment in that situation. This gives you the possibility that you can also opt out of treatment alone based on age impairment, i.e. you have not been diagnosed. Where exactly is it that the line between you being so demented is that it is a diagnosis and that it is just a general age decrease? That is why I see this as an extension of the treatment testament and also as a strengthening of the rights of the elderly to be able to decide for themselves what kind of treatment you want, even in the final phase of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132216	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132217	Thank you. I'm glad. So, if I understand correctly, the rapporteur can see some possibilities in the existing one, which could be considerably better by supplementing with something extra. In other words, when you find out that it might be very nice to secure your future in this way and that older people have created an opportunity to say: I do not want revival if I have a heart attack. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132242	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132243	Yes, I think that is a very basic right, and that is also what both Elders Sagen and Danske Patients point out in their hearing answer, and I fully agree with that, and I think we should back that up. I am sorry that we have come into this situation where a perfectly reasonable right has been granted, which is now being withdrawn. Then we must do what we can to give that right back to the elderly as soon as possible, and that is what I consider the work we are doing here to be part of. Then, of course, it annoys me that we need time and resources to develop IT systems in order to get it implemented. But if that's the way it is, then we have to do it. What is crucial is that we have a workable solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132316	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Per Larsen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132326	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing this issue up for discussion. We Conservatives support the intentions of the proposal. We are all entitled to a dignified life, not least a dignified life for the elderly, and therefore it must of course be possible to renounce revival if one has reached a very old age and is hit by a heart attack, just as one has the possibility of renouncing, for example. a cancer treatment if you do not want to receive such treatment. It certainly does not have to be either complicated or expensive. It is the case that when you come to an elderly centre or a care centre today, you are typically very old and weakened, and your wishes should be met. We are in favour of the negotiations, which I understand are just around the corner or actually going on, and here it must be possible for us to make a model that ensures that, as older people and weakened ones, our last wishes are met and that they do not want to be ignored or overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132435	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. We need to move forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132451	Thank you. Just as we all have the right to a dignified life, we also have the right to a dignified death. The Minister for Health has now invited us to negotiations on a work on good elderly life, and it has been suggested that in those negotiations we should also deal with the issue of a dignified death. It is very important, when we continue to work on it, to ensure that the information of the elderly can be accessed by anyone around the elderly, whether in hospital, in an ambulance, in a nursing home or in their own home with a visit from a home nurse. It is also very good that we should evaluate the treatment test and look at what it can bring us in terms of how further work should be carried out, in terms of deciding that we want to avoid treatment or resuscitation. That is why we cannot support the resolution, but we look forward to further work on the question of a dignified death in the negotiations on good elderly life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132604	No one has signed up for short remarks. Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132611	It's your life and not the state. This is a basic preface and it is important to remember when we are dealing with these matters and we can fully support the proposal. I have followed Mrs Liselott Blixt, also from the point of view of civil society, and I have had a great deal of respect for her before, and it has only increased since I came to Parliament, and I look forward to the continued work. So we can support this. I'm hearing some tactics from the government. I do not recall that New Citizens have received an invitation, but that is enough because it is something that has happened before we came to the Folketing etc., but you are welcome to send an invitation; then I would like to show up if we can get there. If that's all we're going to do when there's something, and we're looking forward to it too. We absolutely believe that the idea that you can decide for yourself what you want to be revived or not is not only something that needs to be reserved for older people, but also for those who are of the age of 18. So good tactics, we mean from here, about more citizen and less state; we like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132726	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132734	Thank you. To be allowed to die a dignified death is one of the most fundamental questions I can imagine. For there is no human being who avoids death; it is and remains the last condition of life. We have a number of doctors among our members, and they tell us that resuscitation of older people is in any case a very complicated issue. I'm not an expert myself, but the essence of what they say is that resuscitation attempts in themselves have or may have very serious side effects on age impaired persons. With the proposal made by the Danish People's Party, adults and sane people are given greater domination over their own lives and over their own deaths than they have under the applicable rules. We think this is positive and right, and that is why we support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132857	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then we are going to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123132912	Thank you very much. And thank you for the support that has actually been expressed all around. It is certainly gratifying that we are all concerned that, in the same way as it is important that we have a dignified life, it is also important that we have a dignified death. This is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party have been fighting for for several years. We have had money set aside for better palliation, we have set aside money for hospice, and in recent years we have made a great deal of use of the right of self-determination that is necessary in order to get the dignified goodbye to life that we ourselves want to have or to have. Therefore, we have had a lot of conversations with the former Minister of Health, and we got through that we had to have a treatment testament that could enter into force when you did not have the opportunity to tell yourself what you wanted, and we had changed §25. 2 and 3, so that the dying could be guaranteed help in the last time, and we also talked about who could renounce the right to resuscitation. We had a very long talk about this with members of the Ethics Council, and I actually felt that the health rapporteurs who sat at the table at that time were very much in agreement on the direction in which we should go. That is why I was surprised when we received an e-mail from a general practitioner who pointed out that the old-age person must not say no to revival, as the legislation on this point requires that the citizen is in a current course of treatment for one or more diseases, so that the right of self-determination can prevail. So it was changed so that, from 1 November last year, an old-age person could not be resurrected. This means that an otherwise healthy, mind-blowing 88-year-old or 102-year-old resident of a nursing home cannot opt out of revival attempts if their only reason is that they are tired of life, that they are happy with the life they have had, but do not want a revival attempt that may change and impair their status very much. The treatment test does not seem to help either, since the treatment test alone allows the doctor to follow the wishes of the citizen if the citizen cannot take care of himself physically and mentally as a result of the decline in old age. Thus, the treatment test only applies when the citizen is no longer able to express his or her wishes and opt out of treatment. It should be the same, if you have fallen down then you are not able to take care of yourself. So it seems weird to say it can't get into the treatment test. So I think there must be something missing, and that is why, at the time when the doctor wrote to us, I asked the Minister for Health a question, but the answer was that we should address it at the ethical meeting in February. But it wasn't good enough for me. I think it is awesome and I think it is sad that we now have a lot of elderly people who are nervous that if anything happens to them they will be revived to a life that they do not want. Many of them think they have lived a rich life. I've been working in nursing homes I've been working with older people for over 20 years and I've been caring for some who have said: I've had a nice life, I've had a rich life, but I'm so alone now, and I'm tired and full of days, and I really don't want to live anymore. If a person who sits out there and says so today has a heart attack, then the staff must revive him or they may be prosecuted. I think that's scary. It is frightening that, in a rule of law, because of adjustments to some provisions, we have come to the point that we cannot decide for ourselves what should happen when we are tired and full of days. And precisely in a closed institution as a nursing home, where there are health professionals who take care of it and where you have a transfer talk about how you want to be treated and what needs to be done when you get sick or what can be done by other things, you also take up some of these things, and that's what the Medical Association says. After all, there are capably health workers in a nursing home who can take the talk, get it written down and make sure that you know that Mrs Hansen does not want that revival when it comes to it. We know that in the hospitals you had what some once called the secret codes, which is just a phone number for the heart team to come if someone has a heart attack, and then you wrote 555, if that was the number, on the patient's tablet. So there should be the possibility that it could be set in motion now rather than waiting for an IT system which will take a long time to develop and which everyone will then have to decide on. I mean, it's a completely different proposal, and I can't get that to fit in with this, because this is about the elderly we have here and now, the elderly who have been nervous and scared since they read about this, and the doctors and healthcare professionals who write to us and say: what are we going to do? You're putting us in a delicate situation. Well, I was hoping the minister would have said: you know what we're gonna do, so we're gonna make sure there's something else in the law, maybe the same thing as it was last. In any case, doctors were able to talk to their patients and just accept the desire for resuscitation or not. We could do that before November 1st last year. What's the reason we can't do this all of a sudden? Well, in the Danish People's Party we don't understand it. I remember a conference we had a few years ago, which is one of the things that has led to the amendment of the law that we have been involved in. There we had a conference that the Danish Nursing Council held together with some Norwegians who came and told about their welfare center, and there we heard how they had made it. For they had heard that many of these elderly people were sent to the hospital when they were found, and there the revival was to begin, and many woke up and came into intensive care and lay there with snakes and all sorts of other things. Some of them lay there for a long time until, unfortunately, they lost their lives. Others may have woke up in a state that they did not want, and at the same time they did not have the dignified death they could have had in the nursing home where they lived, where there were staff who could have gone and put the covers around them and been there for them. That is dignity, and that is the dignity that we talked about at that conference, and that is the dignity that I think we should give to our older citizens in Denmark too. Therefore, I am sorry that we have to wait so long, and I am sorry that we also have to ask the question to 18-year-olds: How will you feel when you get old? I would therefore like the Minister to have made contact with me, who has been working on this subject. It may be that there is someone from the Danish People's Party, but after all I have been working with it for many years. And all I can say is that I want this to be changed so that we can assure the elderly that, of course, they decide for themselves whether they want to be revived when we get that far. But thank you for the debate. We will, of course, take some questions along the way, and maybe we can reach some kind of agreement. Because I do not think that people's right to self-determination to die should be an issue which means that we do not reach a majority that can do anything. But thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133707	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, who has a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133709	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. How I agree with the view of life expressed here by Liselott Blixt. There's not much we agree on, but this is really something that matters to both of us. What I would like to ask Liselott Blixt is: Is it possible that Liselott Blixt could see the idea of also hearing people other than those who have spoken so far, so spend a little more time making an evaluation and having the staff investigate what they actually think, what the older people actually think, so to a greater extent doing so and then incorporating their wishes into a new proposal on how to get this done here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133750	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133751	Actually, I think we've heard from a lot of people. I have heard from health lawyers, I have heard from the Danish Nursing Council, I have heard from the Medical Association, from the Elders Case, from Danske Patients. I think everyone has been on the field, because everyone is equally surprised that there will suddenly be a legal home, which means that you cannot say no to resuscitation when you are perhaps 102 years old and say: Well I do not want to be revived. Sorry, you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133820	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133821	Thank you. What I would call on Liselott Blixt to do is to be involved in the negotiations on how to make the current system considerably better. Because there is no doubt that this is not good enough, and what it is about is a dignified old life and a dignified death. I think we agree on this, so it would be incredibly positive if Liselott Blixt were to participate in the work of improving the system so that we could create the right system together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133851	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133852	Well, I'd always like to be involved. But I hear that there is an entirely new IT system for 27 million. kr., which must be initiated when some of it is just quite simple. We have discussed in the past everyone's right to say no to resuscitation. That is what we talked about with the Ethical Council. But it's a completely different matter. How are we supposed to look at the man who falls in the square, whether he has got something wrong in his throat and maybe has to have the Heimlich method, or whether it is someone who should have something else? These are the moral and ethical things we have to deal with. And it's the same thing about when you're 18, you have to say how you want to feel when you're 102. So I've changed my mind a lot of times about a lot of things in my life.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133936	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123133956	The debate is open. And the first to speak is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134020	Thank you. I would say that it is not surprising that the Social Democratic Party backs the bill. It's a bill that has a certain history. In the first place, the history dates back to 1966 when the first legislation came, and it has to be said that there have been a lot of additions and knob shots in connection with this. And that's why in 2016 a committee was set up to look at the modernisation of this area. There was a bid in 2018, and what we are doing now is that we follow up on some of the recommendations made by the committee on the condo law that was set up. There are several elements to it, but one of the things that lies is that there is an update of the rules for the normal Staff Regulations to which there have been changes over the years. There has been a need for an update here. That is, in effect, what is being proposed in the draft law. However, it is also planned that, when there is an ownership association, we will guarantee the rights of the individual owner to a greater extent. And it may sound a little reverse, but we also ensure that the owners' association has some opportunities in cases where it is quite hopeless in relation to the behaviour that may be on the part of the individual owner, which gives some scope for imposing sanctions, either by means of fines and, in the worst case, by excluding. So that way you could say that there's a technical part of the bill that's actually making some updates about this. In addition, however, a little is being added to the fact that we are looking at the rules of division and relaxing in certain places. It is the case that if you go around the country, there are some places where housing and occupation belong together and that the current legislation does not allow you to make this division. This is one of the things we are doing now, so that you can make ownership apartments, but also retain something else for the business sector. And we believe that's good. There are also some possibilities to repeal the rule that the minimum must be 85 m2 to be made when establishing some of these condos. We're gonna suggest that you can make smaller units that might help some of the people who need less. What we in the Social Democratic Party naturally welcome here is that this is leading to the mix of different types of housing that we have in our society today with rentals, private rentals, general, owner-occupied homes and including condos. So we, the Social Democrats, should warmly recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134321	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134324	I kind of agree that there are parts of this bill that have some really good elements. However, the rapporteur has already said that there is an adjustment of some rules of division and that there is a relaxation in certain areas. There's a report behind this bill, and in that report it's actually made clear that it's over 6,000 homes that are currently rental homes and that this bill could turn into condos. After all, the rapporteur pointed out that we should like to have some mixed towns, and that sounds rather contradictory, because we currently have some rental homes. It is probably typical in some provincial towns that you have such buildings where there is some occupation and then two residential rentals, and where it is part of the relatively cheap rental housing. And with this, it's set up to be condos. Does the rapporteur not see that it could, in fact, be in the wrong direction in terms of having mixed cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134427-2	I would say that the starting point on our part has been that, I was just saying, I was about to recreate the cities in the sense that what we have at least experienced is that in many places it has become ghost cities, because these business premises in and for themselves cannot be rented out with the development that has been going on. And there we believe that we can recreate those cities by giving this opportunity. So we don't quite share Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134500	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134500-2	I am therefore looking forward to continuing this dialogue, because I can well see that there may be some cities that have some remaining commercial leases, some shops that are empty and that you want something else to ensure life. And we really want to help ensure that, but why link it to the fact that you then get two rentals that turn into two condominiums? We do not like that connection, and we look forward to discussing it further in committee, in relation to whether we could not find a change to this bill which would ensure that there are not so many condos out of it, i.e. where rental homes are being set aside to become condos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134536	We are happy to accept the call for dialogue and the talk that we must have. It's a question, you can say, whether the owners who have these buildings and the possibility of being able to realize it afterwards in relation to this. But we are also looking forward to that discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134552	No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller. Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134601	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are discussing here today is a follow-up to the work launched by the former Left Government in 2016. The Left Government set up a committee on the Ownership Act, which was given the task of proposing a modernisation of the Ownership Act. For we need a law that is up-to-date and to understand, applicable in an owner housing market anno 2020. The Left supports an update of the rules on a normal statute for the owners' associations. We need updated normal statutes that are relevant and operational so that possible disputes and conflicts in the owners' associations can be avoided and the work of the board made easier. The Left also supports making it clearer when a division can take place, while at the same time relaxing the rules for this. We need more owner-occupied housing, and this contributes to modernising the ownership of the apartment law. All in all, the bill is for the benefit of residents of owner associations and owners of condominiums, for the benefit of the supply of condominiums and thus residential citizens dreaming of own condominiums. In particular, the Left is aware of the introduction of the general clause into the law, which strengthens citizens' rights and allows for the possibility of disregarding completely unreasonable general meeting decisions, and the possibility of penalties in the form of fines or exclusions against an owner who is seriously failing to fulfil his obligations to the other owners of the property. Again, we are strengthening citizens' rights. The abolition of the 85 m2 size requirement for newly established flats by dividing mixed residential and commercial buildings allows for more smaller dwellings. There is a great need for these, not least in our largest cities. The Left also agrees that it is important to maintain a mixed housing offer, so that we have both rental, cooperative and owner housing. Those were the remarks from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134802	Thank you. No one signed up. And from Mrs. Heidi Bank we are going to Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123134818	Thank you. We have a condo law which came into existence in 1966 and which has only had 26 changes in law during the 54 years it has existed. The previous government therefore took the initiative to set up a working group to look at the legislation and to address it in depth to where it was needed. And a whole series of good proposals have come out of this, as the draft law here contains. Among other things: My rural heart welcomes the fact that it is now possible to create ownership apartments in commercial buildings with several buildings, including former agricultural buildings from which the land has been sold. There are also two areas in which I have in any case had citizens' applications where they were a little concerned, because they thought that we were at odds with the Constitution here. We are certainly not, but these are the areas of private property. Both of them have been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs. One is, of course, that in cases of gross neglect, decisions can be made by the owner's association in order, of course, to take the overall consideration of the owner's association and the other residents into account, to exclude the resident, which must then be brought to justice. And the second is that the owner association must have access to one's apartment, in the event of repairs or supervision, and that this should be notified, but that in the event of sudden damage, the owner association may enter the apartment immediately. And we can easily support these two things, because they both serve a higher purpose and consideration for the other residents in general. Another thing is that legislation here can derogate from completely unreasonable decisions taken at general meetings. It can, for example. is thought to have a property with six condominiums, four of which are owned by the same family, which is therefore a majority of the owner's association, and that the family saw, for example, that: decides that these four matricles should be exempted from paying to the common fund. And then it is fine that we can go in and sanction those decisions if they depart completely. So all in all, we in the Danish People's Party are happy that the bill picks up a lot of problems that have been feedback on over the years and that have existed around. And we are also pleased with the liberalisation that makes it possible to build more condominiums in commercial buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135101	Thank you to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. I would then actually have to give the floor to myself, but that would mean that I would have to check my own speaking time, and I do not think Members of the House would be satisfied with that. So, thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg to give my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135117	Thank you for the honor. I can then say that the Radicals support the proposal. We do that together with the SF and the Alternative. The Radicals will examine any concerns in detail, including consultation answers, etc., during the actual committee proceedings. So I hope that's about it, sir. President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135142	At least no one has signed up. Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. All right, let's move on. That means it's Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. For the record, I'll tell you that when Mrs. Kirsten Normann and Mr. Andersen... Sikandar Siddique cannot be here because of a committee meeting. And Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is committee chairman, so she has that obligation elsewhere. Then we go to the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135222	Thank you. I didn't realize it was already my turn. This bill contains both good and bad things. With regard to Chapters 1 and 2 of the draft law, we are positive about this. We believe that the part of the legislative proposal contained in Chapter 2 on ownership associations and on statutes and the internal part of an association and membership is much needed, and it is a welcome legislative review that is being put in place there to make the rules clearer. Some regulation is being introduced which has been lacking, and that is among other things. This is about the relationship between an owner's association and its individual members. Then, when we come to Chapter 3 of the draft law, we think that too much liberalisation has come in there. It is there that there is a ban on the division into smaller properties, which will then be abolished. That is the part that we cannot support on the part of the Enhedslisten. I think it's interesting to go back and look into the report that was made prior to this legal work. The very thing about the division of smaller properties is something that is very different in the committee that has been set up. In fact, I think that the various minority opinions contained in the report give a very good picture of this. Among other things, it says:: If there is still a political desire to maintain a mixed housing stock and housing mix in cities, the impact assessments show that the ban must be lifted with extreme restraint, as it will have a very significant effect on existing housing markets, especially in large cities. There are also opinions from some others who are in the minority in the Committee, which consists of the Joint Representation of the Cooperative Housing Associations, the Land Organisation of the Renters, the National Association of Municipalities. They conclude that the owner-occupied property law's prohibition on the division of unsaved buildings, constructed on or before 1 July 1966, should be maintained in order to ensure a mixed housing stock and housing composition in the cities. When you hear what the Minister of Housing regularly says about this coming up with mixed cities and things like that, Enhedslisten thinks it is worth defending that there are still rental homes in a large number of cities. I do not have the overall view, but when I think about this, this concerns something where there is a commercial part and then two rentals in one building, then it is something you will find in a lot of provincial towns. If you think about having a varied housing offer in the cities, so that you can easily have a moving pattern where people can move, when they get a different job or divorce, or what can happen, then it is an advantage that we have something other than condos in Denmark. According to the report, this is 6,237 dwellings, which could potentially become condominiums. If it becomes condominiums that are rented out, then those tenants will be worse off than they are at present. We are also dealing with an older housing stock, which is probably for a rent at the cheap end. One might argue that new housing can be created, etc., but it is typically something that is more expensive. So we are very much looking forward to having a discussion in committee and having a deeper look into the consequences of those parts of the bill, and we will work to ensure that it is changed. I don't know how long it's been, because there's something wrong here in front of me. It's 50 seconds). Thank you. So is there something in the bill here about removing the area requirement of 85 m2 that we think we can make sense, but could it not be done in such a way that it was actually a competence they had in the municipalities? For there can be a variety of housing needs in different municipalities. There may be some municipalities where you think that family homes are very much lacking, and there may be other municipalities that see it as an advantage that you get some very small homes for the many young people, for the many single ones. So there we really want to discuss whether there is no possibility that it might be a municipal competence that you have on that point. However, we look forward to discussing this too much liberalised legislative proposal. We'd like to get some of the liberals out of here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135728	Thank you. There's one person who signed in, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135735	The reason why a mixed housing market is nice is that the Danes are different. Some would like to live in owner's residence, others would like to live in rented accommodation. It very often depends on how long a time frame you have on living. If you only expect to live in a home for a short time, it is clearly an advantage to rent it. If you expect to live in it for a long time, it may be beneficial for some to own it. The question is: Why would Enhedslisten forbid people to take over their rental home as an owner's residence, if that is what you want? If you now live in a home and the landlord wants to sell it to you and you want to buy it, the demand has shown that it is an owner's residence that is needed. Because that's what both tenants and landlords want to do. Why, then, will the Enhedslisten continue to ban it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135823	We know a lot of people who have an economy that means that you can't just go and buy a condominium if that's how you get offered that kind of thing. We have a lot of people who are on transfer income in Denmark and who demand cheap housing. We think it is very good if those people do not just cram together in the municipalities where there are dilapidated dwellings. In fact, we think it is positive that in all municipalities there are cheap rental homes, so that the people with the lowest incomes actually have the opportunity to rent something. So we're in a reality where not all people can just go to the bank and say: I'd like a loan so I can buy a home. Unfortunately, we are not there. In the Enhedslisten we work for more equality in society, and we want to achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135913	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135914	Then the Soviet-inspired Central Command economy once again brings out its face with the Enhedslisten. It is Enhedslisten who must decide what homes people should have out there. So although there is a landlord who would like to sell to a tenant and there is a tenant who would like to buy from the landlord, Enhedslisten says: We know better; what is going to be a rental residence forever and ever. It must be prohibited for the landlord and tenant to make the arrangement that the landlord sells to tenants. Isn't that right? It's the Soviet thought again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135942	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123135944	I don't know. I've never had shares in the Soviet Union. I belong to that part of the left, which has been very freely thoughtful, and I was also down when the Berlin Wall was overturned, and I helped to overthrow that wall. That enemy image, like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has, I have not, but I have noted that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wants to defend liberalism at all times and to have as many rights as possible which are linked to the money for which you can buy things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140012	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul from Conservatives. I regret to the rapporteurs that they do not see how much time they have left, but it can be revealed by standing up for the fact that they are nearing the end of it. Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140044	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I'll try to see if I can stay within the time, despite the fact that I don't have a clock beeping. The ownership of the apartment is, as several have said, from 1966, and I believe, unlike the Danish People's Party, that over the years it has been amended and has been added quite a few times. The fact that the text of the law has now become so complicated is due precisely to that and, frankly, it is also extremely incalculable. Modernisation and simplification are, of course, absolutely appropriate. It will clearly be easier to deal with the practical issues that arise on an ongoing basis among owners and associations. The previous government also set up a committee to propose precisely the modernisation and simplification of the law. And there are many relevant parties who have been involved in and have spent time and skills making a number of recommendations. The draft law is based far along the way on the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, and I think that is very good, because knowledge is the way forward, also for a legislative proposal. It is therefore a little too bad that the draft law should continue some of the current bans on the division of properties, which the committee of experts would otherwise recommend to change. I am thinking here of the recommendation to lift the separation ban for co-operative apartments in buildings built after 1966, as well as the recommendation that small properties can be divided into several condos. It is true that the draft law, as the previous rapporteur has also said, envisages that business units can be divided into owner-occupied apartments independently, but if housing cannot be divided at the same time, bureaucracy will be bureaucracy, as I see it. Let us take an example: if you are to set up a cooperative housing association, and if you are to facilitate the financing of the risk, the business units are to be divided into independent owner-occupied apartments, this really means that instead of setting up a housing association, two must be set up: an owner-occupied apartments association, and an association consisting of all the residential apartments, where all the apartments are subsequently organised in a cooperative housing association. So you have to run two associations to manage a property. This is the kind of thing that counsellors love, but they are not going to pay the extra costs either. On the other hand, I fully agree with the Minister for Housing, who is good at saying it everywhere, that it is good that we have different types of housing in Denmark. There must be something for everyone's wallet, for everyone's needs and everyone's dreams. I also note that as early as September the Minister said to Altinget that the liberalisation of the previous government would remove several thousand cooperative homes in the capital, and that he was of course opposed to that. I think that is an interesting statement, especially in view of the fact that the government has since intervened on the rental market in connection with Section 5 of the Housing Regulation Act. 2 which, according to the FSA, will incontrovertibly adversely affect cohabitants and which, in my opinion and many others on the market, actually puts many people in a situation where they become technically insolvent. After all, this is a situation which many cohabitants outside the capital already have close proximity. That's what we're looking at here today. It is important that we here in the Folketing not only take care of the interests of Copenhagen but of the whole country. And if we do not give a hand to the co-owners in the province who are currently facing problems, there will still not be cooperative housing in the long term, as the government would otherwise like. In other words, there are cooperatives which have empty apartments for which the associations must be jointly and severally responsible. So the question is whether we should help and liberalise, or whether we should just let cohabitants sail their own lake. We are well on our way with the bill, but I would like us to take the final blow, because on the one hand you cannot have a housing policy where it is a priority to maintain a mixed housing market when, on the other hand, you repeatedly do not listen to cohabitants. But I'm an optimist. I am. And I am sure that there will be listening in the Chamber today, including by the Minister, and I think that we need to clarify and assess exactly the point on which I am putting my finger. Perhaps we should take a similar look before the enthusiasm gets too great that we get a look at § 4, the general clause, have an extra look at it, and whether we have now delved right into it and secured the tenants who have boards and owners who cannot quite figure this out with ethics and business morality and the responsibility they take on. Have we made sure of it precisely and well enough? I'm getting some reports that maybe we don't. This is an important point to return to. I look forward to that because with those comments there is no doubt that we Conservatives absolutely want a new condo law. I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140507	Thank you for that and the rapporteur kept to the right side of speaking time without being able to look at the clock. There is no sign of short remarks, so it must have been convincing, and that is why I give the floor to Mr Van der Klaauw. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140522	I am also known for being brief, so I can do the same here. We are fundamentally positive about the bill. We share some of the same concerns that Conservatives expressed here. We certainly do not see that we need to draw it in a less liberal direction. On the contrary, there are probably some places where we could turn a little bit more on it, but that is what we take into account in the committee's work. Basically, we're positive about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140545	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140549	The Liberal Alliance can support the bill. It contains a number of sensible adjustments and minor liberalisations that we would like to help implement. Having said that, we would also have liked to have done even more. Why should there be rules on whether apartments can be condominiums? There are no rules as to whether you can rent out a condo. Then why should there be rules as to whether you can sell an apartment to become a condo? It's like the rules only go one way. If a rental is once a rental apartment, it must never become a condo. That's what's in this condo law and the division ban. Now it is being liberalised slightly for smaller rental properties, but why not quite remove the rule so that, of course, if a tenant and a landlord agree on it, one can go from the owner of the landlord to the tenant, to the landlord of the seller to the tenant who then becomes the owner of the apartment? If they agree on that, why should there be a ban on it? It should preferably be the case that the number of apartments and condos reflects the demand of the Danes. Let's say half the Danes would like to live in a rental apartment. Half of them wouldn't, but if they wanted to, half of them would prefer to be rental homes. And if the other half prefers to live in their own homes, which they own, then half the homes should preferably be owner-occupied. The Danes can find out these things themselves. There is no need for rules to be changed in the Folketing. We don't have to have old Communists from the Enhedslisten, even though Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has not been a member of DKP, however, some of his fellow party members have it, and they also decide what to stand here and say to tell how the Danes should live. Frankly, we Danes can find out for ourselves. Owner's homes have their advantages, rentals have their advantages, and the Danes are different, and there should be no rule that only one form of accommodation is really good and that it should be prohibited to convert it into the other form of accommodation. This also applies to cooperative housing, where I know that there are very many holders of a cooperative residence certificate who would actually like, if they were given the opportunity, to convert their accommodation into a owner's residence. There are entire cooperative housing associations that would probably want to transform themselves into owner-occupied housing associations if it were legal, but it is not. When I say that there are many who want to do so, it also naturally follows that we have the ban, because if people did not, then there was no need for a ban. The ban is necessary in order to prevent people from doing anything they want to do, and the ban on converting their cooperative housing society into an owner-occupied housing association exists only because people like Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten and others on the extreme left, but unfortunately also the Social Democrats, do not like that cooperative housing associations turn themselves into owner-occupied housing associations. I think it is rather strange, strange that there is such a left-wing majority here in the Danish Parliament who thinks they should decide whether people's cooperative housing association should be allowed to become an owner-occupied housing association. Who the hell do people think they are? What do politicians imagine when they think they have to decide whether people's housing should be one form or another? I think it is strange, and that is why I will confine myself to saying that we are voting in favour of the legislative proposal because it is good but small steps in the right direction. If the Liberal Alliance had 90 seats in the Folketing, it would be even more ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140950	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123140953	After all, it is the voters who have composed the Folketing, and I think that should be respected. It is then a more left-wing majority that is than Mr. Ole Birk Olesen likes, and the voters were even so generous to give Liberal Allicance 4 mandates, which then for various reasons has shrunk slightly in number. But we have to accept that there is a result of the elections. I cannot understand why the rapporteur is questioning this. Then I would also like to welcome the fact that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen didn't have time to make this bill, because I understand that it would then have become more liberal. We have seen a report from the committee on the ownership of the apartment law. They barfed with a report, apparently in March 2018. I would like to welcome the fact that the Liberals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are in favour of this report. Ole Birk Olesen didn't have time to make a bill based on it, and then we have the opportunity to make an implementation of the law on condos, which is less liberal than that, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wanted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141052	Now it has to be said that in my time as Minister of Housing, the ownership of the apartment was not under the Ministry of Housing, but under the Ministry of Industry. The owner of the apartment has been transferred to the Minister of Housing. So it would have been the Minister of Industry who, under our government, should have put forward a bill. So to this, there is a majority of the people who voted for these parties: that is quite right. I am in favour of democracy in that the decisions we take together must be decided by the majority. But I do not want all decisions to be taken by the majority. I don't want it to be decided whether you can wear red braces or how to cut your hair or what accommodation to live in. I think the citizens should decide that. That is why there are limits to what the majority must decide. And I think that the majority of the Folketing, which, indeed, has been correctly elected by a majority of the population, should consider whether it is really the right of the majority to decide what kind of housing people should live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141153	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141154	If you should listen to the citizens, I would like to hear that very much, and that is what the rapporteur said in his first speech. You should look at how many people are on the waiting list to get a general home. It has to be said that market forces are failing to build what is needed. There should, of course, be much more general housing if you look at the waiting lists there are. There are simply some market forces which do not work and which need to be supplemented by political decisions being taken in some municipalities. It has to be said that if we are to listen to the people, then more general housing must be built and not all sorts of liberalisation are achieved and condominiums must be established all over the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141232	Well, it's clear that you put a billion-dollar grant into a certain type of housing, so people want to share in that billion-dollar grant. But that does not mean that, if you were to finance your general housing yourself, instead of having to be financed by your neighbor or by someone in another city, you would necessarily want to live in that housing if it was not because it was much cheaper than it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141258	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Thus, ideologically armed, I shall give the floor to the Minister for Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141308	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception. The bill modernises the condo law to make the rules easier to understand and creates a better basis for dealing with the issues experienced among owners of condos and owner associations today. The bill follows up on the recommendations of the Committee on the Ownership Act. The draft law has a technical part on the modernisation of the legislation itself, as well as some on the divisional bans. Modernisation and simplification of the structure and scope of the law is proposed to ensure a clearer regulation of ownership. At the same time, rules on rights and obligations are clarified and clarified to strengthen citizens' rights. Among other things: the possibility of penalties in the form of fines and exclusion is introduced so that owners' associations have the possibility of effective enforcement in cases where an owner commits a very serious breach of his obligations to the owners' association. In addition, rules on a normal statute for owners' associations are updated so that a new updated normal statute can be issued where the rules on owners' rights and obligations are made more up-to-date and precise. In addition, some simplifications are proposed in the law's rules of division. It is proposed that access should be introduced to divide older private rentals into two residential apartments with professions. This will provide greater flexibility for citizens who today can be trapped in their business part, which they cannot rent out. In addition, it is proposed that the size requirement of 85 m2 be abolished on newly established occasions by dividing mixed residential and commercial buildings according to the so-called 80/20 rule. This will make it possible to create new smaller opportunities for example. small households and students. In addition, it is proposed to make it easier to divide mixed buildings by providing general access to all buildings on a non-dividable property, such as one condominium with several apartments. Finally, it is proposed to provide general access to the sharing of old rentals with residential and commercial properties by placing all residential apartments as one non-subdividable condo and the business as one other condo. This will allow for the separation of business units and thus ensure greater economic independence. It is important for the government to maintain a housing market with cheap and mixed housing so that people with ordinary incomes can also afford to live in our larger cities. For this reason, it is proposed that the law's current disaggregation ban on, among other things: older rental properties and properties belonging to cooperative housing associations are maintained. I would like to thank you for your positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading. And then I would just like to make a few comments about the debate that has been going on here, and I can see that I still have time. First of all to the rapporteur of the Conservatives: this law is not designed to safeguard the interests of Copenhagen; on the contrary, it is designed to safeguard the interests of the smaller cities. The places where you will get the biggest gain from being able to split a property in a main street could be in Ryomgård, in Tølløse or other cities of the size of a station city or small towns in the countryside. In other words, there are main streets where there are buildings, where you have upstairs living and occupation below, and which today suffer from it, that you cannot have the flexibility in your main street as you would like, and there we think it is an advantage for the development you can get in that type of city if you get the opportunity to sell it from as owner's apartments. I would also like to oppose the original proposal, which was, of course, from the Conservative rapporteur's own party. It was a conservative minister who presented it at the time, where it would be possible to make cooperatives built after 1966 as condos. It was not to help farm housing; on the contrary, the papers we received back then showed that it was cohabitation in the cities that would become condominiums, and it was not cohabitation in smaller towns. On the contrary, it was where it would be difficult to make them condominiums and where there would be no advantage in making them condominiums. That discussion is, of course, before the rapporteur's time, and therefore it is quite reasonable to question it, but to highlight it here as if it is a Copenhagen proposal, I think it is quite wrong. In fact, I think it is very much the opposite. Then Enhedslisten also notes that 6,000 rentals will disappear. That is actually true, and we are quite sure of it. So, what is missing in smaller cities in Denmark is not cheap rental accommodation. On the contrary, it would be my contention that in many cities and in many rural areas there are too many cheap rentals and, on the contrary, I believe that, with regard to some of the very cheap rentals that are rented out by people who sometimes do not have the best business morals, we should look at how we can tear down more of them, for example on Lolland and Falster, and make sure that they are not made a magnet for people who have social challenges in one way or another. The question of whether there are cheap housing in many of the smaller towns around our country, I do not think is about this relatively limited number of rentals. In fact, I think that this is almost often the opposite issue, so that some of the municipalities that have most of the very cheap apartments and houses for rent would actually like to have fewer, because much is empty, and because there is a traffic in which people who have social challenges move to large towns and rural areas, which also makes it obvious that the composition of residents in these municipalities is completely distorted compared to what we want and which I also imagine the Enhedslisten wants to ensure mixed communities, no matter where in the country it is. So, with those comments, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141858	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123141902	It's interesting to go back and see what it says in this report from 2018, where there are among others. is a statement by the Land Organisation of Rents, which finds particular reason to state that the prohibition of the ownership of unsaved buildings built on 1 July 1966 or earlier in condominant apartments is maintained to ensure a mixed housing mass and housing composition in the cities, sufficient housing in the cities, which can be paid by singles and low-income people, rented housing in the cities, where residents have security and influence on their own housing. I think there is good reason to turn down liberalism in this bill. And so I think that 6,000 rentals, which there is a risk of becoming condominiums, are a lot to lose, and I think there is good reason to look deeper into this, because the picture is definitely different across the country. But there's got to be a lot of places where it's actually an advantage that these rental homes are still there. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142008	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142009	First of all, I would like to say that the legislative proposal before us is based on what was agreed by the committee. And as I remember, this bill is also that which, among other things. LLO and KL have joined two organizations which opposed the removal of the three remaining divisional bans, i.e. division for inter alia. flats and small houses with over two apartments. So, as I understand it, it's with, among other things. LLO's approval. But the question of whether it is too liberal, I would actually like to challenge the fact that I do not know whether it is more liberal to live in a residential property, where there is a owner of the property who earns money from one's residence, has a return than it is to own one's home and then have the possible gain that may be living in an apartment. Well, I don't see why one thing is more liberal than the other. Is it more liberal to own your apartment than to live with someone who owns a large house with apartments in it? I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142116	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142117	Well, Enhedslisten is involved in lifting the cash aid ceiling and low integration benefits and other poverty-creating benefits, so that more people could have one, what to say, freer choices in their lives. But that's just not where we are. After all, we are faced with the situation that there are quite a few poor people in Denmark. And some have just been unlucky too. There are, for example: people who get divorced and suddenly have an old house debt and who can't just go out and buy something new, but sort of have to find something they can rent. So I think the conclusions come too quickly to defend this bill. And I'm really looking forward to getting a little deeper into it and having a look at if you can't do something better than shut down as many rentals as you've set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142201-2	Yes, we are in complete agreement that if it is the case that you do not have a dwelling and cannot find a dwelling, then it is the municipality's job to ensure that you are assigned a dwelling. And that is precisely why we also agree that there is a great strength in having a strong general housing sector. But if you look across the country and look at what it costs, for example, to buy an apartment or a small house in West Zealand, where I come from, or on Lolland, Falster or anywhere else in the country, it is often cheaper overall. So, of course, it is true that if, for example, you do. If you have a low-paid job, you will be able to go down to the bank and borrow for very cheap money, compared to what some landlords will take for rent if they rent housing to the same people. And there I also think that Enhedslisten will agree with me that it is better that people themselves get that saving than that the person who owns the house gets the saving.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142258	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142302	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for clarifying what has happened in the past. I'm really glad. These are just not the reports I've been given in relation to cohabitation apartments other than in the larger cities. So let us delve into it in committee and see if there is anyone we are going to stand up and do something wrong about, because we simply do not ensure that the empty dwellings for which they are responsible for solidarity do not become a challenge. But I respect the liberalisation in the legislative proposal, which I am a little more pleased about than Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142332	Yes, it is a conservative who praises the liberal. It can happen that way sometimes. However, in relation to the cooperatives, I would say that it is clear that there is a large proportion of cooperatives built in the 1990s, especially in the quota system at that time, which is located in smaller towns, typically in townhouse buildings. Their situation may well be discussed, but the information that I was presented with when we discussed it with the then Minister for Business was that it would be first and foremost in the large cities, which would be a great incentive financially to convert their cohabitation into a owner's residence. That, of course, also makes sense. If you go to Lersø Park Allé on Østerbro, there are four large high-rise houses with cohabitations, where 100 m2 costs 3 million. kr. It is clear that if it were made for a condo, the price would be higher than 3 million. kr., so of course many would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142433	Mrs Juul does not wish to speak for her second brief remark, so I would like to thank the Minister for Housing. Then no one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200123142453	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 24 January 2020 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
