ParlaMint-DK_20200311130021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 130 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Transport Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 131 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B Kollerup (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Denmark's approval of the contractual basis between Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Sweden for the Nordic Investment Bank). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200311130055	The debate is open. I would point out that votes on the possible proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 12 March 2020. Now we have to have the reason for the question, and it comes from the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311130125	Thank you. We finished 2019 by having the wetest autumn ever measured in Denmark. The following winter has taken second place over the most rainy winters in Denmark, and we ended by having the wetest February ever registered in Denmark. As most people are aware, this has resulted in very large floods in large parts of the country with huge social losses resulting from losses which could, of course, have been avoided far along the way if the water could have been more easily returned to the sea. It hasn't been able to do that. We have observed fields that have been under water, and this has meant great losses for farmers, but it is not only farmers who have been affected, because we have seen floods inside cities, in summer-house areas, on roads, so ordinary people have had problems and have had their homes destroyed and have been influenced by the masses of water at all. We've seen before how cloudbreaking it's been a few years since I think it was in 2011 caused water to pour into the Biobank at the Danish Cancer Society and ruined 18 years of cancer research. It is just to give an example of the fact that the floods are not something that affects a few farmers, although it may of course be bad enough; it is something that really affects all of us as a society, and therefore, in our opinion, we also have to act on it and not only with all due respect for it, by the way, push it a little and talk about it in a context of climate adjustments that have a longer aim, perhaps 10 years or more, when the water is out there now. That is also why we have called this as an urgent question, in other words precisely to signal it, and because we want to have a discussion with the government quickly, and not least with the parties of the Folketing, about the solutions that we can see are there. We know that there are various tools that can be used, and we on the Left are very, very ready to discuss that in order to find out how we can deal with this situation now, but also in the future, because unfortunately we have to expect that similar amounts of water will also come forward. That is why we have called the question and I look forward very much to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311130323	We say thank you. Then we get an answer from the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311130334	Thank you. 2019 was one of the wettest years in the history of weather measurements, and the rain has unfortunately continued into the first months of 2020 with the result that in recent weeks we have witnessed massive flooding in many parts of the country, for example. in Holstebro, Ribe and along Gudenåen. This is a clear reminder of climate change. At the same time, we have had a situation in which a strong wind has increased the pressure on our coasts this time, fortunately, without causing any serious problems. From day one, the government has taken the challenges of climate change seriously and, together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, has agreed that Denmark should have an ambitious climate law, and the Danish Climate Act is followed by a climate action plan. The consequences of climate change take the government just as seriously. That is why we want to draw up a national climate adaptation plan to ensure a coherent and holistic approach to the consequences of climate change, and a plan to ensure better coordination of efforts in relation to all municipalities' management of rising sea levels, groundwater and rainfall. These are complex and coherent issues that are not solved by simple quick actions and therefore there will be a need for thorough work. The challenge is where to make of the water when it comes to us in huge and unexpected amounts. The solution to a drainage problem somewhere can increase the problems elsewhere, for example. for the cities and fields located further down in the river basins and vice versa. Therefore, in order to find solutions, we need to look at entire river basin systems, from source to coast. And it is absolutely crucial that the municipalities cooperate in finding solutions that last in the long run. The challenges of adapting to a new, wetter reality are at the heart of the government's forthcoming climate adjustment plan, to which I will return shortly. First of all, I would like to briefly describe the measures that the government has already launched in the area of climate adjustment. This is an effort which greatly supports the municipalities' task in the whole area, because the municipalities are the main actor as authority, whether in terms of coastal protection, watercourses or urban climate adaptation. The government, together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, will amend the Coast Protection Act so that municipalities can apply in exceptional cases for permission to remove the right of appeal. The amendment must prevent necessary municipal coastal protection projects from dragging on due to complaints. Later this year, the government will introduce a new tool to the coastal municipalities of the country that will give them an overview of the coastal areas of the municipality for risk management and strategies to manage the risk. A new survey has been prepared by the Coastal Directorate, which particularly flooded municipalities can use in preventing damage, and vulnerable municipalities can use the tool for future urban planning. Finally, the Finance Act provides for an annual framework of 184.6 million. kr. to the State contribution to coastal protection on parts of the west coast of Jutland through four joint agreements and a total pool of 80.6 million has been set aside. kr. for dike and coastal protection projects in 2020 and 2021. In the watercourse area, some of the opportunities that municipalities can already make use of, wetlands, watercourse interventions, pilot projects in climate-sensitive watercourse systems, green land distribution and the removal of low-level soil. With the Finance Act for this year, we have strengthened the possibilities for land set aside by 200 million. kr. annually over the next 10 years, and this spring the first application round opens for the green land distribution. I myself met the mayors at Gudenåen, and I asked them to sit down and become more concrete on possible solutions for the overall system, and then I invited them to take up the opportunities that are being played in by the state. The initiatives support that we take the landscape back to what it looked like sometime, and in this way we get the natural filters and wet areas of the landscape recreated, a form of natural water parking. This can help alleviate the effects of floods and also of the drought that we are increasingly experiencing. From several points it is pointed out that there is a need to amend the river basin law in order to adapt the climate, but the law already provides for it today. That is not to say that there can be no need for adjustments. We would like to take a closer look at this in the context of future work, as we do, among other things. will include the results of a number of exploration projects on future river management. Climate adaptation is planned by the municipalities, all of which have drawn up a climate adjustment plan which has been continued in the Planning Act. In this way, all municipalities are obliged to identify areas that may be subject to flooding or erosion, and to establish prevention measures in new urban areas. Climate adaptation is also carried out in sewered areas, primarily by municipal-owned water companies. Historically, this has often been done by putting larger sewer pipes into the ground, but today much climate adjustment is also made above the ground, where the water, for example, is made. route to a stream instead of being led into the sewer, which is often cheaper. On my visit to Svendborg last week I visited a local landowner who designed his garden so that the water is kept inside on his own property instead of running into the neighbors or in the sewers, and this is a good example of how we can think more creatively when we need to adjust to more rain. In 2013, the then S-R-SF government introduced new rules that allowed the water companies to make cheap surface solutions together with municipalities and private ones. Until 2016, the companies could finance 100%. of the costs of water management, but since then the municipalities have had to finance 25%. of the expenditure from the budgets of the municipalities. We propose to return to 100%. co-financing. The amended rules that we are about to negotiate must ensure that waste water companies adapt to climate change wisely, in good time and efficiently to the right needs. Another challenge we have witnessed in recent years is that in many places, both in the cities and in the countryside, there are very high levels of groundwater. The rainfall this winter has made it even worse. In cities, the combination of rainfall and the water companies' closure of water wells is causing major problems with flooded cellars. Today, landowners are responsible for preventing flooding. This means that many homeowners establish large-scale sinks, which are connected to the sewage system and which then send clean water to the purification plant, and clean groundwater should not end up in the sewers. The many initiatives I have now examined show that the government is working hard to support the municipalities in addressing the challenges of more water. Climate adaptation is complex and the good solution is coherent and holistic. This requires cooperation across authorities, sectors and a wide range of actors. Local knowledge has the municipalities, but at the same time the municipalities are calling for the state to take a more active role, and this is precisely why the government will draw up a national climate adjustment plan, where we among other things. will look at enhanced coordination. It must be clear who has the power to decide when solutions are to be found across, for example. Municipal boundaries. In the context of the forthcoming climate adjustment plan, the government would also like to have experience from the recent floods, and I have already addressed that part. I will continue my visits in the country and meet with municipalities that are challenged by the current floods, where they can come up with their ideas on what needs to be done. This is a huge task that we are facing and the work on a national climate adjustment plan is already under way. It's gonna take a while. Things need to be done in the short term, but the climate adjustment plan is also a question of ensuring Denmark in the longer term. So it is also about making a long-term plan that will ensure that our country is geared to climate change in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131158	Thank you. It is the case that there is now the possibility of a question from the rapporteurs, that is to say the general rapporteurs, of one minute to the Minister. And the first one is sir. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131208	I would like to sign for the Minister's introduction. I believe that we are in the same vein, in that it is precisely a very, very diverse arsenal of tools that we need to find, one can say, and this also needs to be adapted locally to nature and the challenges that are also different in all possible parts of the country. But overall it is a challenge to get the water to where the water would like to be. It can be said that before Christmas we have made an agreement, which the Minister also mentions in his introduction, about coastal protection, that is, about these opportunities which give municipalities a little easier access to coastal protection, but that is to ensure that the water does not enter the country. But what we are talking about here first and foremost, as I see it, is that we also ensure the second dimension, namely that the water comes out again when we can see that there are these ever-increasing rainfalls, and not least in ever-increasing concentration. Because that's probably the challenge, so the concentration is so high that it can't be dimensioned in these runs and ditches, and in the sewers and other things that we have. So, in relation to all these different tools, my question is this: would the Minister not agree with me that part of the result is achieved by the fact that we also dimension the capacity of drainage, so that we simply increase the capacity of drainage by the various means needed for this to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131323	Thank you. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131324	I agree that this will require a wide range of efforts. That was also why I chose to go to the way I did, because if you think it's just a simple grip you have to take in order to secure and equip Denmark for the future in relation to climate change, then I think you're wrong. I think it is important that we also say broadly that there is a need for us to look at a great many areas if we are going to solve this. That is why I would like to say to the question put by the rapporteur in relation to drainage capacity: I think it is also a great deal about the fact that when we have the country we have today, where there are more cities and they are closer to the drainage that is now there and there are fields up to our watercourses and other things, we also need to look at whether there are some places where, for example, we need to take out some land. That's one of them. what can be done with soil distribution; then we can park the water until there is room for drainage. I myself was in Odense and see Odense Å, where you just have the type of land, which means they haven't had water in the houses or flooded fields. And I think that's what we need to look at, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131424	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131425	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's answer to the question. However, I think there is one thing missing, because the Minister says "and the Danish People's Party also fully agrees that there are several players here and that this must be raised together, but it is the case that the largest player is the authority holder, and that is the municipalities. It is the municipalities that have the obligation in relation to the fact that there must also be drainage. In fact, when the counties were laid down, the authority was transferred to the municipalities, and the money was also included, and it is therefore surprising that you can now see mayors around, who say that they are throwing the towel in the ring and that there are some others to take care of it. This is a task that lies outside the municipalities, and the municipalities will also have to assume the responsibility they have. The municipalities have no doubt that they are responsible for the task of sewering, but here we are not talking about black water, but about surface water, which needs to be handled, and that is also a municipal task. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that there is also a need to say to the municipalities that it may well be that this is a major task, that it may well be that we need to be more about it, but that the main actor is therefore the municipalities, and if the municipalities or for that matter KL also start to throw the towel into the ring, then it is a task they do not want any more, and then there are others who have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131538	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131539	I do not think I have heard exactly the same thing as the rapporteur, in other words that KL has thrown the towel in the ring. On the contrary, I have actually heard the municipalities make proposals and have a desire for dialogue on the challenge there is. Because it is clear that with the climate change that we are facing, which is not just something that other countries need to deal with, but which we here in Denmark can clearly feel, I think it is fair to discuss whether you have the right tools. And I think that one of the things the municipalities find difficult to promise is that of course. are situations like the one with Gudenåen, namely that what you do in a municipality may well mean that a lot of water is poured into the head of the next municipality, and that dialogue, that is, the question of how we make overall plans across the large river basins, I do not think there has been enough focus on before. So I think it makes a great deal of sense to have that dialogue with the municipalities and with KL, and ask: where is the barrier? Because I think there are things we can do smarter. But I do agree with the rapporteur that it is the municipalities and the landowners who are primarily those who have local knowledge and who have to take the initiative on these initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131645	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131646	Thanks for the speech. I have two partial questions, one might say. One is the interaction between watercourses and cities. Now I live in Ribe myself, so of course I'm very concerned about it. But Holstebro was also mentioned. There is therefore an interaction between watercourses and major cities which are problematic. The second is the whole plan. It's like 80 percent. of all the water that falls over southern Jutland runs west. It runs into some systems where there are locks that can't get up when there's a west wind, and that's the prevailing wind direction in Denmark. The municipalities can't promise that. This requires some overall planning because it is water that falls just west of Kolding, which runs into the Wadden Sea, and it runs through many municipalities along the way. So what are the Minister's thoughts on the need for overall planning of these very, very large water systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131743	First in relation to watercourses and cities: It is true, I have also talked to Holstebro's mayor about the challenges they have, where you are also working very actively on a major project on climate adaptation. So I think that a lot of municipalities are in the process, but there are also barriers. We must, of course, listen to that. That is why I also think it is important that we now have an inclusive process in relation to the climate adaptation plan that we need to make. In terms of making overall plans, I think that's part of the solution. The question is how to coordinate it. I think that the meeting I had with the Gudenåborgmasters was actually a very good meeting, where there is also agreement between the mayors that it is clear that it makes much better sense if they can make a comprehensive plan for the entire river system, so that you know what you are doing in one municipality compared to what you are doing in the next municipality. What you do in one municipality can benefit the other, and who will have to pay? There are a lot of questions in this, and it just shows that there is a need for thorough work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131841	Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131843	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking this issue seriously. I share the Minister's analysis that it is actually quite complex. Water comes from above, from the side and below, and we have legislation that is today not geared to dealing with it. But in SF we are also quite concerned that we are getting started and we are waiting for the coffee to be poured over with the minister to discuss an overall climate adjustment plan. I noted that last week the Minister was out to say that the Minister wanted some input from the municipalities. KL was here at the beginning of the year with a large catalogue of measures for climate adaptation from the perspective of the municipalities. That is why I would like to know how long the Minister expects it to take. If e.g. KL will make more recommendations next week, will negotiations be convened or where are we? It's just that we in the SF are pretty preoccupied with getting started with this actually quite complex work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311131943	I agree, of course, that we need to get started. In other words, we have been able to agree on the basis of government, among other things. SF that some of what was needed was a plan for climate adaptation. Because we have been able to see that one thing is how we get our emissions of CO2 It is true that KL has played its part with some suggestions. I think it's obvious that we're looking at them. One of the things that many municipalities have wanted is one of them. to be able to make these cheap surface solutions where there is no co-financing requirement of 25%, and that is one of the places where we have said: let's have a look at it right away, let's have a call and talk about it. So I think we have to say that there will be some things that will happen in the short term, but there are also some things where we do not necessarily have all the answers now. That is what we are looking at by catching up on those contributions. What can we do right away? How can we use some of the bets we're already doing with land distribution and other things? And what will require a slightly longer aim?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132045	Then it's Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132046	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. After all, we are in a very serious situation of flooded cities around the country, with farmers who have fields under water. These are big, big challenges. That is why I would also like to start by signing that the Minister makes it very clear that the 25% local cofinancing should now be dropped and that we simply need to have a plan so that we can take action much more quickly. This is something that we in the Enhedslist have been very concerned about and have proposed, so I am glad that we are now going where we roll it back. Then I would like to say that we have also jointly drawn up a financial law, whereby money has been set aside to take out low-level soils, and so I would like to hear whether the Minister thinks that it can play a part in this context and perhaps actually contribute to some solutions, particularly on the agricultural side.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132139	Thank you for the question. Exactly the thing about low-level soils, I think I can be part of the answer. After all, it will not be all the low-level soil that we can take out with a background in climate objectives where there will also be a purpose in relation to water parking or where it will be part of the climate adaptation response. But some of it will, and that is also why I think it is wise that we have also proposed that there should be more objectives in relation to such land distribution and set-aside. So I think that pool will be part of the answer. After all, we need to re-establish some of the natural hydrology, which there are in some places, and which is, in fact, best to park the water where we want it, rather than to end up in our houses or in the farmer's fields. So we are not just solving it with drainage capacity, as was asked. We simply need to look at it a little more carefully, otherwise it will be a hoof solution that does not really solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132240	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132242	Thank you. After all, it is very good to come after the many questions that have been asked, because I think it shows that so far, at least, we are very united across the parties of the Folketing on this matter. Because it is really a very complex area, and just to get an overview of the distribution of tasks and find out how it can be adjusted, who should make plans for what and decide what etc. etc., is a really big task. What I would therefore like to ask is the timetable. Because I already asked questions about this before Christmas, and on 8 January I received a reply from the Minister, and from that answer it appears that there is not yet a definitive timetable for this work. And that is probably where we would like to push a little, as the parties of the Folketing would like to do. Because it sounds really good that the minister is around to talk to the parties, and we have found that both KL, Danske Regioner and even more have played in with some proposals for future architecture in this area, but when can we expect to be involved in a real debate about this by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132349	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132350	I understand that the questioner is asking, because I think that we are all seeing that when more water comes down from above and many are experiencing massive floods, there is, of course, an increased pressure to say: how do we get climate-proof in relation to the future? And I am glad that, even when we formed a government, we agreed that we should have such a climate adjustment plan. If it is not so simple simply to say that there is a specific timetable, it is because we have started work on gaining experience from, among other things. the municipalities, which are absolutely crucial in this. We agree on that too. And I think that's the right way to do it. I also think it is more important that we get those inputs and that we do not necessarily have a timetable today than that we call for negotiations quickly without having those inputs first. So maybe we can look at that a little differently. But I also think it would be a different matter if they said: okay, now we just sit back in the meantime. We do not, of course, do, and the question that came from the Enhedslisten shows this very clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132454	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132456	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for a fine speech. I hope the Minister will excuse me if there has been an answer to what I am asking about here. But I'm looking for the committee of experts that was there back in 2017 and that came along, as far as I remember some thirty recommendations. And I have to admit, I'm actually having a hard time remembering exactly where it ended up. I remember all these recommendations coming up, and I remember that Denmark's Nature Conservation Association and Agriculture & Food were out to comment on these recommendations. They said there was, like, a subset that they could agree on. But I just can't remember how much of what we've been implementing. So perhaps the Minister can refresh my memory of how many of the 32 recommendations we have made and how much remains for the negotiations that may come now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132544	That's a very good example of some of these things taking time. It may take time, on the one hand, to examine what the good experiences are and, on the other hand, to implement the good experiences. What happened on top of the recommendations was that under the previous government some research projects were initiated, so some of these things had to be tested off. We have also received a report on this. In any case, the rapporteur has been invited to review these research projects. There's something where we can see that we can go ahead and try to work on it in this climate adjustment plan that we're about to do. There is also some of that where the investigation projects show that there is not, as such, a national trading room, for example. So it's kind of in both directions. My proposal will be that this is one of the things we're looking at when we're going to make this climate adjustment plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132635	Then we thank the Minister. Now we are embarking on the negotiations, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jacob Jensen. Then I would like to say that it is the case that we have two hours for an urgent request, and that is why I will try to manage the meeting in such a way that all parties will have time to deliver their message. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311132654	Thank you. We are experiencing large and also stronger rainfalls than we have seen so far. This may be due to climate change, and we ourselves are also in the way we organize our society with several surfaces that become fixed, in residential areas, etc. So the capacity of our sewers, streams, creeks and ditches is not, as it looks now, dimensioned to it. We have to do something. Therefore, the Left's view is that with a broad palette of tools we should focus on how to get the water away and back to the sea, so that we avoid these great floods that we are experiencing at the moment and resulting loss of society, and it is of course a loss of funds that could be better spent in other contexts. After all, we need to finance the climate action plan and we need to finance many things, so we need to avoid these social losses. Moreover, we must also avoid the uncertainties caused by the floods in the Danes, both those who have jobs and those who have private homes that are at risk. Before Christmas we made an agreement on coastal protection, where the municipalities got a little easier to establish the necessary dikes around, so that the water could just stay out in the sea. And here we are, you might say, a little in the same ball street, although we look from the shore, where the rainfall that falls on the ground must then be returned to the sea again. Here too, as I have said, it is the municipalities that are an important player who must have some tools; for those they have may not be good enough to help the citizens deal with this. On the left side, we are fleeing with the political standing we had when we had the power of government until not so long ago, where we among other things. some watercourses came out exactly 1,000 km of watercourses, mainly small watercourses in areas with no significant environmental value, in order to ensure that there could be better drainage from those areas. We have also added to what was called a coastal billion with the 2019 Finance Act, which was more precisely 1.1 billion. kr., to ensure coastal protection on the most vulnerable coasts. That's enough? No, of course it was not, and of course these floods also show this with great clarity, and I am therefore glad that we are having this debate here today, and hopefully we will also be able to find broad solutions politically. That is why we in the Left are also very prepared to discuss with the government and with the parties of the Danish Parliament how we deal with the rising groundwater and the rising portivau and, above all, the large and rapidly increasing rainfall that we are experiencing. I think we need to get a wide variety of tools with targeted clean-ups and porridge cuts in creeks and ditches as one of the tools so that the water can pass more freely in critical places. In other words, we need to get the corks out of the holes, and this can easily be done with respect for the environment and the aquatic environment in general. In fact, I do not believe that water dissipation and the aquatic environment are always the opposite of each other, as some put it up. I guess it's bad for the environment too, with stagnant water. Watercourses must, of course, have water that runs away from this name. There may also be another instrument that can be established, namely what you call double profile watercourses, where you make a slightly wider channel on one of the wells, so that there is simply room for more water in the canals. Stone reefs can be established in the sea at the waterfalls, for a stone reef can help to make the creeks become sandy, because if the sand is washed back and up into the rivers, you are equal. A stone reef can help to remedy that. We already have good experience of this. Work should be done on the area of storage of the water masses on low-level soils and, in general, use all possible means to ensure that the effect is as high as possible. The list of tools is long, and we don't have one. We just want this urgent request to give more impetus to the political process, which I am also listening to several other parties asking for so that we can do something. That's why we called it in. The solutions need to be found locally. Nature is diverse. I shall therefore come to the conclusion and say that I am very pleased that on behalf of the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the Alternative I think I can still make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that climate change results in massive rainfall, as well as an increase in sea levels and groundwater levels. The Danish Parliament therefore urges the government to start work on an overall climate adjustment plan as soon as possible, ensuring better coordination of efforts in relation to all municipalities' management of rising sea levels, groundwater and rainfall. • V 62).
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133150	Thank you for that and it will then be part of the further debate. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133153	Thank you. A little north of Silkeborg there is a tavern.It is not called Svo strup Kro.It is called Svostrup Kro. And one of the reasons why it is so slow to find a solution is that different mayors along Gudenåen cannot get together to talk. I think it must be a task for the government and the previous government to ensure that such cooperation works better than it does today. That is the one thing I would like to ask: why has this not actually happened? The previous government knew it was wrong too. The second is that by the cross-section measurements made by e.g. It has been shown that cross section measurements have been made year after year before Svostrup Kro and year after year after year after Svostrup Kro, but the cross section between the two cross sections has not been seen. There it turns out that large amounts of sand have accumulated, and that means that when the water gets there, there is such a small stopper where a little water can come through, and the rest of course runs up into the garden and down into the basement of the inn owner. Why does one not have a more effective system to keep an eye on the creeks than that which has worked there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133303	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133304	So, in relation to the cooperation between the municipalities along Gudenåen, I am aware that I have just got together and have made a proposal on how to deal with it in that area, and as regards Svostrup Kro, I should like to say that this is also something that I am reminded of at times, not least by Mr Svostrup Kro. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who for good reasons is very concerned about the area. That's right, sir. Christian Juhl says that precisely in this field there is accumulation of sand or other material, but that is something that applies to a lot of other places, and that is why I am also trying to say that the tools that we would like to use are not, as some might say, just to start the excavator from one end of the stream, pull through and then get out to the other end of the stream. It could probably be effective such a clean water dissipation, but we would like to make a targeted effort, for example in these critical places where there is precisely that accumulation. And as to how to keep an eye on it, I think it's something you're quite locally watching and so you can give reports about. But we just want to make the bets as targeted and as specific and thus as effective as possible. And that could be one of the examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133410	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133411	Well, the last thing you have technicians for, but it appears that you want to do the same incision over and over again, and now when the water comes, you can see: Hey, we have just measured two deep places, and the place where the sand piles up, we have not measured. Something else is that it's only when the toilet burns that the municipalities meet, and that's bad. Well, when you've known for so many years that there's a risk, you'd have to go somewhere if we'd ignore Svostrup Kro... look at the other places where there are long runs. There are quite a lot of places in Denmark, fortunately, because it is wonderful. There, too, they must work together so that it will be a combination of state and local efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133454	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133455	I fully agree that this is a combination of what the state must be involved in. It may be some legislation, it may be other things, for example. financial and so on. That is also why I say that we do not come and propose such a one-size-fits-all, that is to say that you take one model and put it down all over the country, because that is not how it works. There are races and there is nature of course different around, but that is also why we have to make the stakes targeted and thus effective according to our assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133526	Thank you. I have a service information. It's like we have some speaking time up here, and that means you can figure out exactly how this can happen. And that means that if the rapporteurs spend their time largely, there is room for 16 questions if we are to reach it within the two hours, including questions finally to the Minister for the Environment. I'm just mentioning it as a service information. Next is Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133549	All right, well, then, I understand from the President that you'd better be a little quick. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Left for being included in a broad proposal for adoption in this area. Broad solutions are important, so I would like to thank you for that. But one of the things on which I did not quite hear an exact message from the Left was the whole question we are discussing right now, when the government is proposing to say: OK, out locally you really need to get some solutions to get rid of the water, that is. and sewers to get the water out of the water at all. After all, some of the options are to allow the utilities to make solutions above ground, not the expensive solutions underground, and secondly, to do so without the municipalities necessarily having to contribute. Does the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133655	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133657	At any rate, we agree that the water must be gone. We also agree that it is good to look at how to make the solutions economically most sensible. It is true, as Mrs Mette Gjerskov says, that there are places where it makes sense to do it above ground and not underground. And who's gonna pay for it? We will just be worried about this, and we have also said so in the negotiations that are properly referred to if the municipalities do not have a co-financing, because it can happen so quickly that the supply companies pass the bill on to the citizens. We will be sorry because it is precisely a social responsibility and is not something that can be imposed on individuals in individual local areas to have to lift. That is our concern, but we agree that we must, of course, look at what tools there can be, so that we can deal with these things locally in the best possible way and, of course, also as financially responsible as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133744	Mette Gjerskov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133745	But is it not precisely the kind of tool that is being asked for out there, and is it not precisely for that reason that there is a brake, that is, the fact that the utilities or water companies themselves cannot just get started and solve the problem? Plenty of places you have plans; you just have to have a green light. That is what I hear the government suggest, but I hear the Left also say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133816	The rapporteur does not hear us saying no to discuss what tools are to be used, including in relation to the municipalities and the utilities. But we are not enthusiastic about the prospect that the supply companies will then be required to raise the bill alone. Because that will mean that you only have one place to put that bill alone, and that is for the consumer in the local area. We therefore believe that there are too many bills for a few people to shoulder such a high level of social responsibility. That is certainly our concern, and that is why we have said that we are a little reluctant to do precisely that part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133848	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133849	When I listened to the rapporteur's speech, there was a word I was listening to, because I thought that I could sense it between the lines, namely the word "grape cutting'. And that was also mentioned at some point. This also opens up a slightly wider debate on the aquatic environment, and there are many considerations here. There is both watering down, so that the fields are not flooded, but there is also a water environment in these streams that we already have problems with the whole talk about the biodiversity crisis, etc. So I am just a little interested in knowing whether there is also an attitude here in relation to increased crop cutting and some reflections on what that means in terms of biodiversity and our rural life, i.e. insect life etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311133938	At any rate, there is an attitude towards ^ and that was also what tried to express that it is part of the tools we would like to take up from the toolbox. It is already a tool that we know today, and one can say that is at least what I hear in several places from ■ that if you did what is actually already in the regulations, then the problem was not as great as it might otherwise be. So porridge cutting, yes, it is part of it, but as I was also trying to say and very much want to repeat, we are interested in making the efforts, including cleaning up, porridge cutting, you can call it many things, those places where there is actually a need for it and where we can have the greatest possible effect by doing so and thus, you can say, make the least possible intervention in what must of course be the second part, namely the aquatic environment, and what it is then for an aquatic environment we have. I am just of the opinion that the environment also benefits from the fact that the water then runs. It's not always good that it's just still. So there are several dimensions to this, even when we talk about biodiversity, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134029	Then we move on to Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134033	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the Left for the presentation here. In 2011, we faced the same challenges. There was a cloud breach. So it can be said that it always rains, a red government comes to a Social Democratic government had just joined, also in autumn 2011. But joke aside. We've been there before, nine years ago, we're back here. We need to start a dialogue, the mayors need to talk. It was exactly the same record that was played nine years ago. And I would not say that anyone has a special responsibility, because the Danish People's Party also has a responsibility for this. That is why I would like to ask the Left whether the Left is ready to say, so to speak, that this requires action. It is not enough to say that we must now have a plan and now we must have more dialogue. This simply requires us here in the Folketing to have the legislation put in place and put in place, so we are quite clear on who is responsible for ensuring that such great values are not lost because we are getting these climate change that we are getting. We all agree on that. How do we solve the problem? We stood here in 2011, now we stand here in 2020 and have the same debate again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134137	I fully agree with Mr. René Christensen. That is also why, as I started by saying, we have done it as a matter of urgency. Of course, you can think a lot about that, but it is also to say that this is not something we can talk about in this way over the next 8-9 years, i.e. perhaps make other measures that may also be necessary in relation to climate adjustments and the handling of it over the 15-20 year term. So it is now that we need more work clothes as we see it. And it is probably a complicated issue, as the Minister also mentioned in his reply. It is many different tools that need to be used, but it is no more complicated than that. Water's running down. So, if we have it as a starting point, that is, water running down, how do we ensure that the water can actually run down and not run off in the wrong places, seen with social spectacles? That is what we are concerned with, and then using the tools that I mentioned in, among other things. My answer to Mrs Zenia Stampe before. It can produce an effect, but it can also produce a targeted effect. It's kind of our agenda with this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134226	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134229	Well, I'm glad to have the floor established from Parliament's platform that water runs down, but that's not why I asked for the floor. It was simply to make a comment, namely that we also support the proposal for adoption. It is only my fault because I have too many rapporteurs, but now the matter has been corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134252	I would like to thank you for that and it may also be that it is my fault that I have not asked Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl exactly enough. I think it is fine that we can also signal that we are a broad group of parliamentary parties. And I believe that everyone, including those who may not be in the proposal for adoption here, agrees that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. Maybe we look at it so marginally differently. But thank you to LA for that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134313	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134325	Thank you for the floor. Rain in strife... that's what we've seen. Now there are storm warnings. It rushes out there; you can even hear on Christiansborg's old windows how it rushes. We have coasts that are under threat. We've got streams running over. In short, climate change is upon us. After all, the government has made this very clear when it stepped in: we need a climate bill and then a climate action plan as part of the whole work. There has been no doubt about that. Now much such history has been spoken today, and I could hear that the Danish People's Party and also the Left were impatient because we have talked about this before. Yes, we do. I have been talking about this from Parliament's platform since I was elected in 2005, and there was the Left's answer to hire Bjørn Lomborg to make a mess in the discussion, in relation to whether there was any climate change at that time. And that's how we can keep pointing fingers at each other. What I think is important to say is that I am glad that today all of us suddenly want to do something about and for the climate and for the Danes and the Liberal Alliance are also jumping with the "Well, that's fantastic, because it's now that we see the results. That is also why we have just set aside 2 billion. kr. over the next 10 years to e.g. to take out low-level soils, to make sure that some of the water is sucked up and kept on the water, and to be flooded instead of the cities. We've dropped money to the west coast. We've set an extra 80 million. kr. for dike and coastal protection. So it's not like the government hasn't acted. But it is also important in this situation to be fully aware that the municipalities are authority. The government needs to help. The state also needs to help coordinate, get an overview and overview and in terms of cooperation. However, we are concerned to have a comprehensive climate adjustment plan based on good advice from municipalities, yes, from the digelagenes and from organisations and experts. An additional challenge is that we must also take care of nature. We have a nature that is in decline in diversity. We have a natural crisis at the same time, so we cannot just plow deep ditches across the country to get rid of the water. We must act wisely so that we do not destroy nature. I believe we can. And I see a job going on. And I am quite sure that, with the goodwill that has come today, we do not need to drink many cups of coffee over with the Minister for the Environment until everyone agrees on a climate adjustment plan. I only hope that we will then all agree on the financing of such a plan, if necessary. For now we are in a situation where, as politicians, we all have a hinterland that sends us e-mails that are calling, that are worried and that are standing with our knees in water and sometimes what is worse. So it's an outstretched hand to get good discussions on this, to get the factual basis for our decisions, to do it together, and to do it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134723	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134725	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I noticed that the rapporteur said from time to time: I think we can. I think it will do that very well, because I believe we can do that too. As the debate has also been marked by, it has been over several years and so on. etc. and there is only a short time for it now. I believe that we have just come to the point where it is not just a question of whether we can and will, because now we have come to the point where we shall try to ask the rapporteur something. We have seen many times that it has ended in trench warfare and water war, where interests are very much against each other and where a picture has been created that either it should be dug up, what I do not think should be the case, or that we should do nothing. Somewhere we can try to meet in the middle. In different situations, different solutions are needed so that we can strike a balance in it. We need to get the water out of the fields to be cultivated while taking into account watercourses, fish and fauna and recreational fisheries. Does the rapporteur agree with that aim?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134833	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134834	Yes, of course I agree that there are many different interests to be considered, and that is why I was talking about nature. I also think that we should come to a realization, because much of the low-level soil we are talking about is agricultural land, which was previously not agricultural land, which has been drained after drainage and which has been cultivated for decades, and then the humus gradually disappears, the soil settles down, and some of it even goes out with the drain, and ergo the fields get lower, the water level gets higher and the water goes out on the fields. It is a natural consequence of operation. It didn't have to rain another millimeter, yet they would be under water. We also have to deal with this, i.e. soil is changing too. We need to find a comprehensive plan, and we would very much like to do so together, too, with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134933	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311134934	Thank you for that; nice to be endorsed for it, which also applies to the last, namely the removal of land. Already a year ago, well and well, we had what is called the multifunctional land distribution plan set up as a pilot project, precisely as a basis for those who formed government after the elections to move forward. So it is in fact very well linked, and it is also proof that we can do it when it really matters. I fully agree with the analysis that the rapporteur has just referred to, namely that some of the low bottom soils should be taken out, because that counts well on that side. And then there are some other fields left, which must also be watered down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135010	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135011	In relation to land distribution, I would say that I am very pleased that land distribution has become so popular an instrument. I had it introduced myself when I was a minister, but it just takes a long time, and it was to ensure nature in Tøndermarsken, i.e. that there could be water in some places and less water elsewhere, depending on whether you should cultivate or whether you should have some nature. It is an instrument that can solve many things, but not everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135040	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135041	It is true that there may be many tools which it has also been brought forward. However, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that the aim of what we are doing must be to avoid accidental flooding and resulting social losses. Then it is true that there can be plenty of reasons for flora and fauna, etc. and so on, and we're gonna have to fucking take that too. However, the aim of the tools we use must be to avoid accidental flooding. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135112	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135113	I very much agree with that. It's about avoiding water coming in from the coasts. It's also about delaying water. In other words, the rapporteur was now very concerned that water runs down. But part of this is also to keep water upstream, so that it is not the cities downstream that are being flooded, but that you may have meadows, football fields, parking lots, what do I know, which you use to delay water. For some of it is also about water coming in very large quantities at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135146	I don't quite know how strong a word of power is, but it's right on the line, isn't it? Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135152	Well, I'm sorry if so. I would just like to ask you about the many different tools that the rapporteur is prepared to use. Now Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned earlier that in the course of Gudenåen there are places where, if I may say so, it is true. Would it not also be sensible to bring in such a tool, that is to say to clean out the places where there are some plugging in the holes, if that is to say? Understandably, a relatively targeted and, it can be said, specific effort can have a relatively large increase in drainage capacity just at that point, as an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135225	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135226	I believe that we will certainly be using all the different tools. What we just need to be sure of is that we do it wisely in the right places, so that we are sure that nature does not suffer, that it does not harm great values, because that is also what it is about people's safety, all the different things we have to take into account. But I do not believe that there is any tool that I am not prepared to look at and that the Minister for the Environment is not prepared to look at. Now she's gonna have to speak for herself later, and now I'm gonna have to be careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135259	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135305	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am glad that the Social Democratic Party too would like to act on this situation. These are huge amounts of water, groundwater is high, and I think it is clear to all of us that we have to do something and that there are great expectations around the country that we are taking action. And there are two important considerations here. There is concern for a more efficient discharge of water towards the sea, especially in the light of climate change and large amounts of water, and there is concern for nature and the environment. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Gjerskov whether she agrees that the two considerations can actually go hand in hand and that it is not the case that we need to wage a trench war about it, but that we can find some balanced solutions where, with a wide range of instruments, we can actually reconcile the two very important considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135358	I'm sure we can. We can divert water, we can delay water, and at the same time we can take care of our nature and our people and values, because it is people's houses that are also under water. So all these things I think we can do, but we're just gonna have to make plans; we're gonna have to finance those plans, so we're gonna keep things together, because there can be some of this that's gonna be expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135430	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135431	Thank you for that answer. Actually, I'm glad. And, of course, I agree with you that this must be financed, because up to now there has been perhaps a lack of maintenance of certain watercourses, and we must have brought this up to a necessary level because we have these increased amounts of water. And now we can all see that it doesn't go any further. As far as funding is concerned, I think we are all ready to put our backs on it, but as the Danish People's Party also pointed out, it is, as a starting point, the municipalities that have it, and then we have to see what the state is going to support with, for example. in the case of planned wetlands and other actions. But I think we're all prepared to put our backs to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135507	Thank you. So the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135508	I am wondering whether all the rapporteurs of the Left have perhaps been practicing not to say the word 'grape' today. Jacob Jensen said so. But that is very funny, because that is what we read in all the newspapers, and today it has hardly been said. But I heard it said this indirectly here, in other words, that the watercourses must be maintained. And yes, the watercourses must be maintained, also taking into account the nature of the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135537	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135539	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I really like the rapporteur's style. It's like that in your shoes and tell me what it's all about. So I would like to ask the rapporteur a little the same way: can the rapporteur not then press the government to get a little out of hand? I mean, this whole thing about what these tools are we gonna need: stop it. We also talked about those tools when the rapporteur was a minister. We know what tools to use. What this is about here is funding and who should press the button. Who should decide that now there should be a wetland? Who's gonna decide that now we're gonna maintain these watercourses? Who's going to finance it? That's where the challenge is. I am sure that if the rapporteur pushes the government a little, and the rapporteur will be able to do so, we will be able to reach an agreement quickly on what kind of tools we need. And then we have to find funding, and I agree with the rapporteur on that, there is a challenge. But should we not stop now saying that we need someone to look at what these are tools that need to be in the toolbox? We know them well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135632	But I really don't think we're talking about inventing the deep plate. What we are talking about is how we can ensure that we have tools that are available to those who need them when they need them. Regardless of the fact that we may think that we have been talking about this for a very long time, at least I can see at home in Jyllinge, where I come from, that there is time and time again legislation that slows down a dike that is designed to protect the homes of ordinary people and has not been able to do so until now. Now we're again making a parliamentary decision about it and making a new law. So there are still places where it's a problem. But we must also bear in mind that this is the task of the municipalities, and so many problems can be solved by the municipalities at this time. Then we come and have to make a climate adjustment plan where we help and where we get the whole system covered and get the measures done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135733	Then we thank Mrs Mette Gjerskov. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen. It's just information like that. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311135750	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Left for putting this urgent question. This is relatively important. And then I would say: why is this relatively important? It is because this means something to all of us. It does not matter whether you are a homeowner or you are a farmer in an area and are experiencing flooding. Then it affects all of us. And why does it do that? After all, it does when agricultural land is flooded. Then you can't grow them. What does Denmark live on? We make a living by taxing what we produce, and when we destroy our production areas, we actually become poorer, and welfare also suffers. That is why this point is extremely important, also seen with social glasses. When we look at the landowners, what happens? Well, then I can, who lives on Lolland-Falster, sit and watch some people flooded over in Herning, and say, "Good thing it doesn't hit me." But it probably does anyway, because when I get my house insurance in no time, it probably says that it has now increased by 2-3 per cent, because there have been a lot of floods in relation to rainfall in 2019 and 2020. That is why we have a rather great obligation here in the Folketing to ensure that the legislation is in place so that the municipalities can carry out the role they have, and the municipalities are authority in relation to the challenges we face. Then we in the Danish People's Party fully agree that the costs will be great, and that is why we also need to look at how we can share it. But it is not the case that the municipalities can be allowed to avoid being part of this. It is a municipal obligation to ensure that, among other things: watercourses are also maintained. Then there is, of course, the discussion about nature and the environment and the fact that the water must be able to flow freely. We clearly believe that there and I am glad that I have previously asked the Minister in a consultation that if you stand in a municipality and say that the way to solve it here, for example, is to make a profile watercourse, that is to review how you look at it, dig it completely free and start over again, you have the opportunity to do so. In other words, nature disappears completely. Yes, it will do so for a short period of time, but then nature will come back. This is possible if it is the tool that is needed. I am very pleased that the Minister has answered that question. That's why you can go hard-handed. Of course, this is not about us going out every year and ruining watercourses and digging them down completely every year. Of course, there must also be wildlife, there must be biodiversity. It must also be a natural area when we have water floating in our streams. But we must recognise that the challenge we face has such major economic consequences for Denmark. It does so for the individual citizen, and indeed it does so for the welfare society. That is why we really hope in the Danish People's Party, when it is such a broad crowd of parties that now require the government to resolve this as soon as possible, that is not in 1 or 2 years' time, but that as soon as possible is as soon as possible. We also hope that the government will take the initiative that in this calendar year we will be early in the year getting finished too, what are some tools that need to be in the toolbox. Then it may take a little longer to figure out how to finance it. However, we have been talking about the tools for 10 years, so we know what the tools are for. How we then distribute the financial burden is always where it becomes difficult. But I really hope that the government will take the initiative to fill up that toolbox now, because then we have come a long way. The Social Democrat rapporteur, Mette Gjerskov, said it very clearly up here: there are also legislative challenges around which you want something in the municipalities, but you cannot be allowed. After all, it is important that we get this right as well. The example from Jyllinge is very good, where you have had some major challenges for many years, including financial consequences. We have corrected that, for which I would like to commend the government. But that's what we need more of, so that we don't get these huge financial losses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140144	Now it has happened that there are no brief remarks, so we thank Mr Seligman. René Christensen. And then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140157	Thank you. This is a very, very complicated area, not least when you look at the task, which in itself is overwhelming. I think that every year, at least over the last ten years, there have been new eye-openers for what climate change does to our country. A few years ago, there was a drought, and now there are these floods. It will be a gigantic task to solve, and it will not be easier right now for it to be a task that goes across so many different actors. This may continue to be the case because it is so extensive. The municipalities play a role, the regions want to play a role, and the state must also play a role and perhaps an even greater role in coordinating this huge task as it is. That's why, of course, we're really interested, and I'd almost say impatient to start this architecture talk. Well, how do we deal with this? Who's gonna do what? But we must also recognise that it is so complicated that we have not sat down and made a proposal for the future architecture of this area because it is very complex. That is why we are waiting for the government's bid, but now that we are relying on the government to come up with an idea of architecture, we are, of course, also a little impatient after it comes up with it. But I could at least recognize a lot of it if not everything, as the Minister said, so I can just say that we are impatient. Then I would like to say something about the means. 'Cause that's what Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party: We know the means of action, don't we just have to get started? I do not think it is that simple, because what is also clear to us is that we are faced with many crises at once. We are hit by the climate crisis, which challenges us with droughts and floods, and we are also affected by a biodiversity crisis, which means that there is a massive reduction in rural life in the case of insects and birds. For we must not, of course, create a climate solution that goes against biodiversity, where we also face a severe crisis. In fact, I believe that there has been a development in the field of instruments. In other words, we are talking more about wetlands, both mini-marine areas and large wetlands. This is something that has gone a little sluggish, but we know that these projects have now been given a little more impetus. There are many farmers who would like to do so and who would also like to help take out low-level soils. There are soils that will get too wet in the future to make it really make sense to grow them. There is, of course, the question: if we know that in 5-10 years it will not pay to grow them, should we go in and put a lot of money off to water them down right now? In this way, we can say yes to the fact that the instruments are there, but there is a balance that we must always reconcile with what we need to do with some instruments. There we are looking into a future where very great changes are going to take place, and that is why we must also regulate, not just from next year and next year again, but from the time horizon that we are looking into, that is. a ten-year period in which our country may already have become much weter and, therefore, there will be even greater discussions and reflections that we need to do in this regard. We look forward and look forward to taking part in these discussions with the government, but of course also with the broad popular rule, because this is such an important thing that it should of course be widely debated and adopted in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140549	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140554	Here too, thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for the comments. I also understand that Mrs Zenia Stampe shares the impatience of getting started, of course with respect for the fact that things have to be examined, assessed and so on. Now we are so united in a proposal for adoption that we call on the government, as it says, to get these negotiations under way as soon as possible. If Mrs. Zenia Stamp should have decided, what would she have said? Should it be written as soon as possible, or should it have been otherwise? It is more to know how impatient the Radicals really are about this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140628-2	There is no doubt that we are very impatient. I would say that something else is at the top of the agenda right now, and with all due respect for flooded fields, which is very, very serious, not least for those who own the fields and who can look forward to perhaps very great losses, we are now in a situation where it may well be that there is a small break in our people's government due to the corona virus we are facing. If it had not been there, I would probably have said that we must then have some discussions and negotiations before the summer recess; we must have some progress in these discussions. But in the situation we are in right now, I do not want to propose any fixed deadlines, because it is so serious and so acute, and that is something I do not dare to predict at all. I wish I could say that we would like to have those discussions before the summer and have gone further. That is also why I have asked the Minister and asked for a timetable, but I do not dare to do so right now in the light of the corona virus, which may also mean that one day we will be sent home from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140740	Full respect for it. We can't know that for good reasons, but as long as we're here, we're here, and we're gonna have to act. I hope that we do not get to the point where we have to shut down there will, after all, be someone to lead the country. Having said that, I would like to put a question on the substance. After all, we have talked a little about the various instruments and tools that we would like to use, but whatever tools we would like to use, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that the overall objective must be to ensure that the water that is now coming in ever-increasing amounts and in ever-greater rains can be handled, that is, that capacity in terms of how we handle it can be storage, it can be the capacity in watercourses, ditches, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140827	I fully agree that the purpose is to manage the larger masses of water, but this is not the same as drainage, because the solution is also in some areas that the water is allowed to lie down in some places. Because there will be more water, and I do not believe that the solution is simply to create a lot of canals and that everything will then go into the sea and that we will have some streams without any life, because they will turn into highways for water. I do not think that is the solution, especially because there will be fields that will be so wet within a very short time horizon that it does not make sense to grow them anymore. It is certainly not profitable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140908	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311140911	Thank you and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I'm glad we agree on the target. This has to be handled, and it has to happen quickly, and I actually think there are a lot of people out there waiting for my good friend, who owns Svostrup Kro. But I would like to know whether the Radicals do not agree that what is needed is a holistic effort by the municipalities across municipal boundaries, so that they do not export the problems.The minister was also a little interested in this, but that at the same time the municipalities need a clear message from the Folketing, and it does not have to take months, we can give them that they have a wide range of tools in the box. It can, for example, be done. be a planned wetland or water parking, and at the other end, where there is a stopper in the hole that stews up the water, you have to remove it like this every 20 years or when it is now needed. It can also be porridge cutting where it is needed. After all, there are a lot of anglers' organisations who are in favour of intelligent cutting, because fish like the idea that the water flows quickly instead of lying sleepy with a lot of porridge, so it is actually good for biodiversity. So do the Radicals agree that we should send the message to the municipalities that they have a wide range of tools in the toolbox in their holistic efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141025	I fully agree with that. We need action, and we would like to see the overall orientation that makes it necessary to think across the board. In fact, I would say that this is such a slightly different subject, but nevertheless related to the fact that some of the problems we have had in relation to the agricultural package and wetlands were also due to the fact that the agricultural package had not been included in the premise that the municipalities should also deliver on it here. For some of the wetlands on which we are so dependent must be coordinated by the municipalities. I fully agree that we need to push the municipalities into action, but we also need to push them into an action that does not just pass the problem on to the neighbour. That is why we need coordinated action and perhaps another architecture in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141114	Then there's the time perspective in this. Because we have a lot of knowledge about this; we have among other things. The Committee of Experts for Changed River Management with Chairman Henrik Høegh, who barred with a very thorough report on this, so we have knowledge. That is why I believe that we politicians should now have it translated into action, so that the municipalities, who have the main responsibility for this, have clear guidelines on what they must and what they must not do. Because out there in some town halls, there's a lot of doubt about what you can do. Can you beat porridge? No, I don't think that's gonna work. Can you remove the stopper in the hole? But it is clear that the water has to go and go to the sea, so something has to be done, but at the same time we have to take what is more important into account in nature. That is why I would like to know whether the Radicals agree that we must send out clear signals to the municipalities, which are currently in a position to find solutions, what they are allowed to do and what they are not allowed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141159	It was a rhetorical question, but I dare not say yes to it, because I have not heard of these ambiguities. I don't know what's in them. However, it is absolutely right that action should be taken. There are just some balances here, both to talk across municipalities, but also to take different considerations into account, and then to have a time horizon that goes further than next year and next year again. Of course we shouldn't leave anyone behind. It's not like we're supposed to say, your field is wet in 10 years, so don't be allowed to crop. This is not the cynicism we are going to have, but a longer and more planning, in which we will find out in good time whether it is there, we will have to make a large wetland project for which the municipality will be the initiator or coordinator, or that is where we will have to buy some low bottom soil. The larger plan with the long horizon and with all the different considerations, we would also very much like to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141252	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141255	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur mentions this with the removal of low bottom soil. It is precisely an example of some things that we have also been able to come together on. The rapporteur also mentioned that where these lands are then to be taken out, a lot should not be invested in drainage and drainage. We can also agree on this, because it may be other purposes for which it is intended. It is precisely for this reason that we are also entering into some discussions about the fact that there are some places where low bottom soil must be made and no longer drainage. Then there are other places where you still have to grow the fields, the farmland. Does the rapporteur also agree that where agriculture is to be cultivated, we must be able to water down the fields where it is needed, in order to get a whole of what is also up to what several other rapporteurs have asked us about? So where fish and fauna and nature and the environment are to be taken into account, we do so, but after all where farming is to be carried out, the fields must be watered down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141349	Yes, they must do so and, of course, with regard to the aquatic environment. And I think there has been an ongoing and also a professional discussion about porridge cutting. I mean, how effective is it really? It is particularly effective in the summer, but the big rains come at another time, and the soil also sits and gets lower and so on. etc. So there are all sorts of things in what I think is going to be a slightly more difficult professional discussion in reality. But we must involve experts in this. And it is clear that where you have good agricultural land, which is not constantly under water, you have to have the opportunity to deal with this type of weather phenomenon, which unfortunately we also have to get used to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141437	Well, thank you. If we listen to the debate in this way, we will hopefully be in a situation where we can get into the negotiating room with the minister and find solutions to that. So we think it sounds good that we can move on that way. And then it is precisely an emphasis that different places, different challenges require different solutions; but it is also a recognition that the places where farming is to be carried out in the fields must be able to get the water away. And then we must have the toolbox spread out precisely, but that is what I hear the Radicals are also taking part in a sensible discussion on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141517	Yeah, and that's what I think is a good bridge over some of the different positions that have been in this area. The more we take out of production, the more places the water can flow, the more places nature can actually unfold freely, and the more freely one may in fact be able to drive one's agricultural business where one has cultivated fields back. So in this way it can actually be a wonderful union for the sake of allowing the farmer to get the necessary tools that he or she needs so that the field can still give a return. On the other hand, we have got more habitats for nature and places where water can run, with the other things that we do at the same time and on which we fortunately find there is a very broad consensus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141606	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141609	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would say that I actually agreed very much with the rapporteur on what the rapporteur said, because it is absolutely right that biodiversity and other things should also be taken into account. But that's exactly what this can give: if we get more wetlands, we actually get more mosquitoes, and then the swallow comes back, because it wants to eat the mosquitoes, etc., etc. Well, we also get some values out of doing this, and that's why I get so a little frustrated about this, that it has to be as fast as possible and something like that. We can find all the pictures now, for example from 2011, and there we can see where the problems are on Zealand. Now we can see where the problems are in many places in Jutland. So it is not because we lack a great basis for making a decision. What we need a basis for is who's gonna pay to take the land out, and who's gonna pay to make these modifications and this clean-up that's gonna happen on some of the watercourses. That is the challenge now. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will help put this pressure on the government and say: we will now have to get that toolbox put in place so that this can be used. And then, of course, there are the individual places where you say: we cannot use it here, because it is too hard on nature. And then there are other places where you can use it. But the toolbox will have to be filled up now so that we can also start using it, because unfortunately we cannot do that everywhere today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141734	Well, we got one of those. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. There is also the possibility of financial compensation for the establishment of wetlands and mini-marine areas, etc. So it is not really the money box that is empty in those areas, but it has taken some time to get started. However, I think that it falls a little back on those who made the agricultural package if I have to round it again because there should have been a premise at that time that when they were given reliefs, there were also some expectations or demands that the municipalities delivered in relation to establishing those wetlands and gave those reductions. Now we are talking about nitrogen, but it is all connected in one way or another, that is to say, many of these instruments, and it is in some way very good that we can solve several problems at once. However, it is not my impression that money is really lacking in relation to wetlands and mini-marine areas and low bottom projects; there we also have both EU projects and we have the financial resources we have allocated. It is clear that in the long term I think there will be much more money in this area, but we have plenty of money to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141858	Indeed, we do, but that is why we must also have a drain on the funds that are there. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because once again, and I am very much in agreement with him, the challenge here is that the municipalities have a lot to look at what is happening within the municipality and what their citizens' money is going to be used for, and that is fair enough. That's why it could be that in here the municipalities are required to draw up these coherent plans, i.e. in these water catchments. For the creeks and streams we have do not care about municipal boundaries; when the rain comes, it does not care about municipal boundaries. But if you do not succeed with it in KKR and other community collaborations, it will not happen. And that is why it was perhaps also our job from in here to put pressure on the municipalities and impose on the municipalities that they should solve this task, otherwise some others will have to solve it for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311141948	Yeah, but that's what makes it a little difficult. Because if we just say that now you must get started, then it is they who lead the water to the neighboring municipality or do not think about all the considerations or only have thought about the next two years... but what about a 10-year horizon where the climate has changed even more? So that is also why I do not dare to say that we must have an overall plan before the summer break, because it is really complex; it is great dilemmas and organisational puzzles that need to be put in place. And that's why I don't think we should just go out and say, "Now get started." Yeah, they're gonna get started on those wetlands, because we've actually been saying that to them for quite some time. But I think we need to have a big overall plan, and it can't just be the puzzle with individual municipal plans. There has to be some overall coordination • whether it is the state or it is some dialogue forums or what it should be so that we do not just pass the problem on to the neighbor. And that's why we can't just go out and swing the whip and say, "Get on." We also need to play a role, and I actually understand that the rapporteur is of the opinion, so I really think we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142053	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe and warmly welcome to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142115	I think there is no doubt that climate change is not something we are just talking about more. It is not something that is in the future. This is something that lands in the backyard of all of us, including in my own and also in my garage. And it creates great frustration when, for example, on Fur, where I live, you can see both that the coast is disappearing because the water is being squeezed into the Limfjord, and see that our gardens and fields can't absorb any more water; groundwater is rising. At any rate, it was clear to us who live in Jutland that there is water coming from all sides. You could also go to Silkeborg and see along Gudenåen and along Storåen at Holstebro, where I was, where it is quite clear that we in Denmark are currently simply not geared to the violent rainfalls that are coming and the changed rain patterns. So there is no doubt that we need to address a long-term, comprehensive and coordinated approach to climate change adaptation. For us to see in SF it's all about us having a look at the legal complex that handles water in one way or another. After all, today's climate adjustment concerns both coasts that erode, floods from watercourses, rising groundwater and clouds. And there are many laws that deal with each of their fields of activity, but do not necessarily play together. We have, for example. both the river basin law, the coastal protection law and the planning law. So there is a need for an effective and well-thought-out global climate adjustment plan, and I acknowledge that the Minister is also concerned about getting it done. As far as we are concerned, we also need to expand our coastal analysis and supplement it with some of the low bottom areas along lakes and creeks, that we also go into the work of asking where there are some particularly threatened areas, and also, in general, getting a survey going for many years. We need long-term planning and, for us to see, it is also important that we plan on the basis of the scenarios we can expect in the future. We can see that what we previously knew as 20, 50 and 100 years of events is much more frequent. In addition, we also need to discuss funding, because climate protection is still the responsibility of the pilot, including financial responsibility. However, we also believe that society must take responsibility for national priority climate protection projects and, in the extreme, also if we are to dismantle settlements and infrastructure in particularly threatened areas. In addition, we also need to clarify where supply companies can contribute a greater share of the funding. In SF, we are very pleased that the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply is being set up to re-establish 100% funding from the utilities if it is surface projects. And in addition, we are also concerned that it will be easier for homeowners to see what the risk is for their house when they buy houses in relation to flooding and rising water masses. So on the whole, we hope that the Minister will soon take steps to come in and negotiate and have the preliminary discussions on how we could have a comprehensive national adaptation plan in relation to climate protection and climate adaptation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142513	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Signe Munk It's okay, I'll go back down). And I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten, the red-greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142524	Thank you. We have known for many years that climate change will mean more extreme weather and significantly more rain, but when we look around the country these days in these months, we really do understand what it means. February was the wetest month of February ever measured at home, and especially Jutland has been really hard hit. Cities, cellars, roads, football fields have been under water, including farmers' fields around the country. We may have to face up to the fact that this is just the beginning. We will experience more rain, and at the same time there will be more summers with intense droughts. That is why it is absolutely crucial that we in the Danish Parliament should actually set in motion the right measures which prepare us even better for the more extreme climate. And in our opinion, in the Enhedslisten, these must be initiatives that take account of the whole of society and not just individual citizens or pilots. After all, agriculture is enormously under pressure in this situation of significantly increased rainfall, and when farmers are to be helped, it is important that we make solutions that are not just short-term or easy. There are some people out there who are talking about just quickly digging watercourses deeper and wider, but we have to make sure that when we make solutions, it should not be someone who just pushes the problem to the neighbor or down into a city, but solutions that actually help the whole society. After all, it is good to hear in this debate that a great deal is also being thought about biodiversity and nature by all the rapporteurs who have been talking. Few more talk about the hated watercourses and only talk about watercourses as infrastructure, and therefore it is very important for me to stress that we need to see nature more as part of the solution rather than as our enemy on this issue, because there are a great many elements in nature and the natural hydrology we can use in the solutions here. In agriculture, nature is very much the solution, but we are also facing major problems in cities. There are citizens who experience flooded cellars, flooded garages and houses. We also experience it in gardens, on roads and on football fields. In the Enhedslisten we retabled a motion for a resolution in the autumn, which should make it easier for municipalities to create climate adaptation projects. We do not believe that the municipalities should pay 25%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. I am very pleased that the Minister responds to this in the Minister's speech and that tomorrow we will have to discuss it jointly with the Minister for Climate Affairs. We must also face up to the fact that many of these problems go beyond municipal boundaries and that if we are to solve them properly, we must solve them together. That is why I think we should also consider whether the regions cannot be used to actually make larger overall plans that span the municipalities. There is a need for a major climate change adaptation strategy and it is urgent. That is why we expect work to get under way very quickly, and we will also press for the Minister to put coffee in the cups. We need to make solutions that take account of the community, society and nature as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142929	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311142932	Thank you. Before mr. Christian Juhl walks out of the Chamber, I might just ask whether the Enhedslisten agrees with what I had a discussion with Mr Enhedslisten. Christian Juhl on where we actually agreed, where Mr. Christian Juhl pointed out that in Gudenåen, for example, there are places where things are true to the fact that I perceived it that way, Mr. Christian Juhl said that they too could help to clean it up so that the water will run more freely. That's one. Secondly, as Mrs Villadsen says, I agree that we should not just pull out the hole or make a hole somewhere to send the water down to the next municipality, but that it should of course be a holistic solution, for example for a river system such as the Guden River. But it's just to hear if Enhedslisten is involved that you can also use it as one of many tools from the toolbox, and where it can therefore be effectively targeted to clean something up simply to get the flow that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143023	I have to admit that, although I am also from Central Jutland, I am not an expert on Gudenå, but I also know that in the region a joint work has been done across municipalities, and I think that is very sensible. Because we must not push the problem from one area to another, but we must ensure that we make holistic solutions. There, in the Enhedslisten, we are concerned both with the protection of nature, but of course also with the citizens who live in the areas that are enormously pressured by the major challenges that, in particular, are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143056	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143058	I would really like to sign for that answer. For we may disagree on many things, but I really do think it is true from the Enhedslisten that things should be seen in this context and that it is not necessarily the opposite of each other to ensure that there are no accidental floods here, that there is a chance that the water can get away again and that it can be watered down, but that at the same time we also have the guilty regard for nature and fauna, etc. So it's just a receipt for it, and that's also the lead we're talking about. Then, of course, we can discuss how much and how and what tools to use, but the trail is that we have to deal with the drainage in order to avoid these accidental floods. We must then talk about how we do the best we can, but of course with due regard for the fact that there must be nature and the environment in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143140	I think the rapporteur is right in saying that it is a question of where the cut is to be made. However, we can all agree that there are challenges both for nature and for the people living in and around it, and that is where we must ensure that solutions that are long-lasting for both citizens and for nature are made. So I look forward to it too. Yes, I have recently held a meeting with the Central Denmark Region myself, and they are also very concerned about this problem, and it is very nice that they are working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143208	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143218	Thank you for that, and thank you for the very fine debate that has been going on so far today, as I think there is a great deal of goodwill across this Chamber to find some common solutions, and I think everyone is pleased that the Minister is warning us that we will soon be invited. I think there's a lot of interest in that. You just have to say that we've had a very, very wet six months. We've experienced that ourselves when we've been moving around out there. I am married to a man who, six months ago, decided to ride 16 km at work every day, and I should say that I have also heard hernias at home over the weather over the last six months and the amount of rainfall, but everything else just is very little to be exposed to compared to those who have had very, very large floods around. There is much of the Jutland that has been hit, Ribe, Silkeborg, Vejle and Horsens, and Odense in the Funen. I myself was a couple of weekends ago in Holstebro and saw Storåen, which at that time was 2.56 m above normal. It is clear that this is something that has very major consequences, and unfortunately it is something that we must get used to as a consequence of the climate change that hits. There are many different tools that we can use to address the challenges we face, and I think that today's debate has also testified to this. There is this element, which is then over with the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply about the funding of the above-ground projects, where this message has been made to remove the cofinancing of the 25 per cent. from the municipalities. Basically, I am and we in the Conservative People's Party are really positive about this, in recognition of the fact that it has gone so far as to get these projects started because they fall under the plant ceiling and have to be given equal priority to everything else. On the other hand, we also have a concern about simply removing this municipal cofinancing. The municipalities have no financial responsibility and the utilities do not have much incentive to keep costs down, and then it is the consumers with whom the bill ultimately ends. So there are two factors that need to be weighed and where we need to find a proper model, but I am also fully aware that in what has been put forward by the Minister, there are some stricter requirements in relation to this, with efficiency and the reorganization of the system that exists today. Another element is about our watercourses, and that is probably some of the things that have filled a lot in today's debate and rightly so. I asked the Minister a little earlier about this committee of experts that has been set up, and I think it is quite obvious that we will have a look at their recommendations again. After the Minister's reply, it really struck me that I remembered that at some point we had a presentation in relation to these overall plans, where I remember that I was annoyed that it was one of the things that had been tried to initiate, but where there was still a potential for it to become even more widespread and to function more effectively. But I think, in particular, as regards some of the recommendations on which they agreed in Denmark's Conservation Association and Agriculture & Food, and when they can agree and agree on a number of recommendations, that we then politically have an extra responsibility to listen to it, and I think that, when we are going to negotiate further, it will be relevant to look again at whether there is more of what can be implemented. One of the things I remember from then on was that a catalogue of measures was sought from the municipalities, and I think that would be appropriate if it had not already been drawn up. The municipalities also have an enormous responsibility in this matter to lift what they are obliged to comply with regulations and to ensure that the watercourses are maintained so that it does not end up having major consequences for the individual landowner or farmer. And then, from the state side, we have to make a comprehensive plan for this whole climate adjustment area, and I look forward to it very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143620	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143631	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the statement. In recent months, we have witnessed massive rainfall, which has had major consequences for many citizens. In Aalborg, Ribe, Silkeborg, Vejle, Horsens and many other places in the country, cellars have been flooded, fields destroyed, and even football fields where you could only see the top of a football destination. However, our infrastructure has also proved unsuitable to handle the volume of water. It was seen, among other things. in Aabenraa, where the volume of water became so large that it affected the sewage system. Here it was necessary to call in sludge cleaners to empty the sewers of water, otherwise it would start to run out of drains in people's homes. However, it is not only in the previous months that we have seen our sewage systems overloaded. In 2019 we saw in Næstved that twice as much rainfall fell into the sewers as they could handle. At the big rainfall in Næstved in 2019 there was so much rainfall in a single area of the city that according to TV 2 you could fill an Olympic swimming pool in less than 16 seconds, and that is our system not geared to handle. This means that we are faced with some challenges when rainfall becomes massive, and we must, of course, be able to deal with that, and in New Citizens we would very much like to support national plans to deal with future situations such as those we have seen in previous months. It must not be the case that a well-functioning and high-tech country such as Denmark is caught on the bed of rainwater, and it must not be the case that fluctuations in rainfall lead to significant risks for people's property, farmland and others. We therefore fully agree with the need for a national climate adjustment plan. New citizens do not support the proposal for adoption, as we believe that it is too bombastically formulated by the Danish Parliament that climate change results in massive rainfall, as well as an increase in sea levels and groundwater levels. But that does not mean that we do not support the intention to prevent situations such as those we have just seen from happening again. We are therefore looking forward to negotiations for the necessary steps to be taken. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143839	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311143850	Thank you. After all, very good has already been said about the derivation of water, not least that it runs down. So what can I contribute? I think it is important to recognise that Denmark's water infrastructure is undersized just now, Mrs Mai Villadsen said not to say water infrastructure, but now that is the word I wrote and I do not want to get into a long discussion about it, because I think we can quickly agree that this is the same phenomenon we are talking about. I can see it for myself almost every day when I come by Ribe Å, Kongeåen, Brede Å, Vidåen it is And when you see such streams, you can also see some of what I mentioned in my question to the Minister, so that these undersized streams are not just something that goes beyond agriculture, which is wrong enough, but it also has a huge impact on urban communities in many places, and of course you have to take that into account. As I said, we support the proposal for adoption and I must state quite clearly that it is my fault that I did not report back, and not anyone else's fault. I just have too many rapporteurs I'm working on getting a little less after the election, but now we have to see. But I just think it's important to make sure we don't make a regulatory straitjacket. I recently attended a very exciting lecture on water diversion with a German engineer named Matthias Reimers. He works with water dissipation in Ditmarsken, and there is really, really much water. He gave the good advice that if you want to know something about water dissipation, you have to go to Holland because they know more about water dissipation than anyone else. So it might have been a piece of advice worth following. But he also said that all water dissipation areas are different, and because all water dissipation areas are different, one must be careful not to create a regulatory straitjacket, which makes it impossible to provide the instruments that are relevant. Well, just to give an example, I can say that I live in a part of the country where 80%. Of all the water that falls all over the region I live in, it runs west because of the topography of the area. There is very little water that falls over southern Jutland, which runs into Lillebælt • it runs almost all through many, many municipalities and eventually into the Wadden Sea. And when it runs out into the Wadden Sea, it must pass through locks that are closed when there is a west wind. And there we should not make any regulation that is designed in some way, so that we cannot adapt to it. So I just want to end by saying that this is a very important problem, but we just have to be careful not to choose ideological solutions, and we should not choose desk solutions that do not fit into the reality where there are very many people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144207	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Now we are through the rapporteur's line, and the next person to speak is the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144222	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for a very good debate. I think that this testifies to the fact that, across parties and political approaches, we agree that we should have dealt with climate change in Denmark and that this is an important challenge that we as a society are facing now. So the problem is clear to most of us, also bearing in mind everything we have seen in the country with the floods that many have experienced, and that is why it is of course also important that we take action on it. I am pleased that we agree that we must start work as soon as possible on establishing this climate adjustment plan, which we, as a government, have also clearly said we are committed to, and which we are very concerned about. That does not alter the fact that we have already taken a number of steps, and some of them have been discussed today, in other words some of the instruments that we have already put into effect. This also applies to some of the tools that we may not have used so much in the past, but which I have expectations of, among other things. To take out low-level soils. It can be part of the solution to look a little more holistic looking at it. If we really want to ensure that we have a more robust way of dealing with large amounts of water, then it is no use turning just a little bit on something, because we also need to look at other instruments. Therefore, it has been good that we have come around a little in relation to what tools are needed, and I think it is clear to everyone who has followed that it is also a very, very complex task. There are many of us who are on the boat, including on the authority side, and the municipalities are the ones who are responsible, but that does not change the fact that, in this Chamber, of course, we also have shares in ensuring that people talk well across the board, and that is perhaps some of the things that have been very lacking. We may have some means in place, but there is still something we do not know where we need to exchange experiences and look at how we can ensure better coordination between authorities, between municipalities, in relation to getting some of these overall plans, among others. for the larger river basins, so that the municipality, which in reality is the very last in the line and where the water runs down, does not face the problem entirely alone. So thank you for all the good suggestions that have been made. I am sure that the parties have even more, and I look forward to listening to them as well. Basically, these are complex, coherent issues which cannot be solved by simple, rapid measures, but we can do something now in the short term, and we must do so, and we must also prepare Denmark for the challenges of the future. We will then discuss that much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144522	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144526	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. And actually thank you for the whole debate today, because it shows that all the parties in the Folketing take this very seriously. I also think that the Minister will have a very good mandate with regard to the proposal for adoption, for which there is a broad majority. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister about this as soon as possible. I think I will put it in my calendar, and then I will remember it when we arrive in the autumn... call on the Minister to give priority to this, so that we also have some decisions taken. Then, of course, we fully agree in the Danish People's Party that yes, it may sound easy, but of course it is difficult. But because it is difficult, we also have to make some political decisions. And then the last question: does the Minister not agree that this is, of course, about climate, but that it is actually also about the economy? Because there are huge losses in relation to the industry, that is to say agriculture, and then there are a lot of huge losses in relation to the landowners, i.e. when we look at real estate and other things. Therefore, even here in the Danish Parliament, even though we are not river authorities, there is a very, very great responsibility for ensuring that this is carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144630	I agree that it is a good mandate to say that there are a great many parties ready to get into work. I myself also believe that when we say that we want to be part of the process of getting the work started as soon as possible, it is about getting started here and now. One of the first things that we have addressed is that of course. this climate co-financing in relation to getting some of the cheaper solutions on the surface where we can see that we get four times as much for the money. I think that's actually a pretty good offer. When you look at what goes further down there, I have already announced that we must meet with KL and the municipalities to collect their proposals. So that's what we're gonna do first. I also agree that it is not just about climate. That is why I would also like to sign for the broad agreement that we made to cut back on some of the major projects where there is an acute risk, i.e. where there are repeated floods and challenges that are precisely about the underlying economy. People's homes are really great social values, and we must, of course, protect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144741	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144742	I'm really glad the Minister says that. Because if we look at it, one of the biggest export goods we have at home is actually agricultural products. I guess it's about 70 billion. kr. a year or so, we get from there, as I recall. So it is incredibly important that we ensure that our agricultural land, our production areas, can also produce out there. Then, of course, it must be done in harmony with nature and the environment. That is why I hope that the Minister will go into this in person, and I actually feel that the Minister is doing the same. But we just experience so often in here that we stand down here in the Assembly Hall and we all agree that this is important, and then we find that it runs a little into the sand. This case is too important for it to run into the sand. Can't we get the Minister's word that it doesn't?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144822	That's right. I have experienced that myself in my time. It may be when government forces change that you think things are going a little faster, depending on the glasses you wear. But, of course, I agree that we are committed to this agenda. I also think that all the parties that have been on the platform clearly show that we are. We ourselves have also committed ourselves, as a follow-up to the Climate Act, to making a climate action plan. We have just started it, and we have said that we must also have a climate adjustment plan. So there's gonna be. And I have also invited agriculture to have a discussion with, because they are, of course, an active player in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144900	Thank you. The question must be closed by 1 p.m. I would like to make a few brief comments, and the rapporteur for the questioners would also like to conclude. So brief questions and short answers, please. The next one is sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311144915	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for being accommodating in this matter. I think that these are good signals coming from the government that we need to show holistic views across municipal boundaries. This is extremely important, and we need that wide range of tools that I think we now agree on across virtually all parties. We can, for example. Take the Gudenå, where I know the minister has been out with the rubber boots, among other things. at Svostrup Kro. There is no doubt that out at Randers we have a plug in the hole where the E45 motorway crosses the Guden River. This is an example of the fact that there is no point in doing a whole lot in Favrskov and Viborg and Silkeborg if there is a plug in the hole at Randers. So this alone is an example of the need for holistic action. I know that the Minister has asked the mayors, among others. about the River of Guden, about getting started on a coordinated plan, and I think that's wise. But what if the mayors cannot agree completely? It can be a little difficult to agree. Is the Minister prepared to give any birth aid so that we cut the Gordian knot so that it doesn't drag on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145017-2	Now I'm very optimistic of mind. I have to say that I have not actually been out to visit Svostrup Kro, but I have met with the mayors and talked to them about the Gudenåen. However, I think it is possible, and the fact that we are all agreed here that there must be a climate adjustment plan, says something about the fact that it may well be that we have been discussing it for a long time, but that we are moving closer to the goal, and I think that is also the case with the municipalities, so that in the past, where you may have had your eyes fixed on your own municipal boundaries, you have become more aware that things are connected. At least I experienced that it was a very, very good meeting with the mayors, and that there's an interest in making this overall plan. But, of course, if one municipality has to make initiatives that are good for another municipality, there can be a challenge in terms of who will pay. After all, these are some of the barriers that we are going to face quite specifically, and I think that we should be open to looking at whether we have the right tools to solve such problems. I think that before I have to be a birth helper in relation to the municipalities, when they come up with that plan, we should try to listen to whether there are any barriers or whether they can actually solve it with the tools that are available today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145124	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145126	Thank you for your answer. I fully agree with that, let the mayors have a chance to do so. However, I fear that there will be a situation in which either we do not agree entirely, and things are dragging on, or that we will send things to committee, so that we may reach 2022 or 2023. And so there are a lot of pilots, for example. by the River of Guden, who has a fear of what can happen in autumn of this year. If we get such a rainy fall, we'll have the same problem again. That is why I think it is important that we move quickly on this issue. It is not to push the government; that is not what is the purpose and gets beyond the steppes, on the longer-term level, with a climate action plan, but also with regard to the government pushing for us to get some solutions for those places in the country where there are some concrete problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145207	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145207-2	I find that the municipalities in those places are very concerned about it, because they themselves experience that their own citizens either get water into the house or beyond the fields, and therefore, of course, in the day-to-day meeting the challenge it is. Having said that, I would also like to say that if the mayors come back to me and say that this is a huge challenge and that there are some barriers on the road and if we cannot talk about it politically, then I think we should be open to it, because basically I believe that these are the sort of plans that need to be done. And, of course, I have also called for the municipalities to look at the instruments we have at national level and see if there are any of them that they can use in order to make the concrete efforts that need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145248	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Anders G. Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145251	Thank you. The mayors around Gudenåen have made the plan, and it says that sometime in 2022 they will come up with a common plan for what will happen around Gudenåen. Now, of course, the Minister has mentioned the meeting with the mayors sometimes. Does the Minister think that it is fast enough to wait until 2022 in relation to making an effort for Gudenåen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145320-2	I haven't gotten the mayors' plan into my desk, so it might be a little early for me to deal with it in concrete terms. But what I can say is that there are already means of action now... that's what I was just talking about before... in terms of trying out some of the things around miniådale,ådale and other of the means of action in such comprehensive plans, which can be the way forward, and which can of course be started immediately. So some of the things that lie in such a plan, you can just start with; but it may well be that some of it requires a little more work, and I think I have to see the plan myself before I can assess that part. However, I think it is good and positive if we have come so far that we are, after all, agreed on what it is necessary to do in order to safeguard all the many citizens, all the many interests and the socio-economic aspects associated with the River Guden.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145413	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145416	It is not long ago that we had the opposite situation in which we had to make a drought package because of a historic drought which led to huge loss of society, not least, of course, in food production. Now we have the opposite, where we have water all over the place. So my question is whether the Minister and the government have an overview or whether it is perhaps too early to get an overview of the community staff we have actually experienced with this. Why do I ask that? Well, of course, it is not necessarily to say that you have to make a water package, as it is called if it is the opposite of a drought package, but that you can at least take it into account among the instruments and the efforts that we from the Folketing, from the municipalities and from the community should put into this. After all, it is an investment in avoiding similar, or perhaps even greater, social losses in future floods. So do you have an overview of it, or will you try to get an overview of it at some point, so we have it in the assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145510-2	I don't have a figure on the total financial bill that's been due to this wet fall and the wet winter. This is something of which I hope the municipalities will report if they can see that there has been a great deal of damage in some residential areas, or that when I meet with the farmers, they will report in and tell us where the challenges have been for them. I think that, after all, the situation has been a little different with this autumn and this winter than it was with the drought package mentioned, which was due to the fact that agriculture was really hard pressed on the economy. That is why we must always take stock of the concrete. The same is true in relation to some of the compensation schemes that are possible, for example, if there are storms and other things, where you go in concretely and assess whether there should be a compensation for the damage that exists. But I am very open to looking at whether we have the right tools at all. I also hope that these are some of the reports that we get when we gather for piles.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145611	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Then the rapporteur for the questioners has asked to round off the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145620	I would like to thank both the Minister and all the rapporteurs and others who took part in the debate. In fact, I think it has been a very good debate and a very objective one, not that we do not always have it here in Parliament, but that I understand it: in fact I think this has been a debate where we have been able to get around and maybe also actually meet with the direction we would like to take, namely to avoid the accidental floods that we have unfortunately experienced and expect to experience if we do not make an effort. This applies not only to such an effort in the very long term with climate adjustments, but also to the fact that we are coming, it can be said, both in the rubber boots and in the work clothes here and now, to use some of the tools that are needed to get action and therefore also an effect that is faster than that. We in the Left are very pleased, and that is also why we have asked this question, that there is the attention and willingness of both the government and, above all, the parties of the Folketing to have a focus on having the water run where the water should run, and it should not be out in those areas in fields and in cellars and in summerhouse areas and on roads and all sorts of other places where the water should not be. So it's about looking at how we ensure the capacity of our drainage, the capacity in terms of handling the water... it can be parking, it can be all sorts of other tools that have been brought into the debate here. It is just important for us that we do not make it more complicated than it necessarily is. Because I admit that it is, of course, very diverse places. We've talked a lot about Gudenåen, but it could also be Odense Å, and it could be a lot of other places across the country where there are these challenges. But from our side it is very, very important that we then also target the inserts and tools for exactly the effect that we want, that is to say to get some water dissipation, get some targeted effects without having to paint with the wide brush. Then it is also important, and that is why I just had the exchange with the minister before, that we also have a look at what it is for a community staff that we have experienced and experienced in order to have it with when we talk about funding and thus what it is for a size investment that we as a community • regardless of whether it is in the Folketing, the state or the municipalities or somewhere else • have to make, i.e. the investment that has to be put into dealing with these amounts of water forward-looking. Because that's what this is all about. After all, we could have spent much better on financing some of the many other things we would also like to do in both the environment and climate and all sorts of other areas. Society is a loss, and if we can avoid it, we must, of course, do so. That is why we have said that one thing is that we are now looking into a climate adjustment plan with a somewhat longer aim, but another thing is that it has also been a wish from the Left that we also look at it with a slightly shorter aim, that is to say look at the challenges that many, many Danes are struggling with, apart from, unfortunately, the Corona virus is also being fought with the water masses around here and say: How can we deal with this here and now and also make a longer-term plan? So I very much look forward to it being said in the proposal for adoption here that we call on the government to convene negotiations as soon as possible, so that as soon as possible it will mean just as quickly as possible, and preferably as soon as possible. Because it's important that we deal with this, both for the sake of the effects we can get out of it, but also to send the signal to the people who are affected and have uncertainty about their homes, uncertainty about their business or production, that we in the Folketing are completely ahead in our shoes on this agenda, and that we take it seriously. So my thanks are due and I look forward to the continued debate and, above all, to the negotiations which should lead to some good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311145959	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 12 March 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150021	I have to inform you that Liselot Blixt under No. 8 questions raised, S 754, to the Minister for Health and the Elderly are deleted. The question shall be put to written answer. I have to inform you that I have a question to put to you. 15 and No 16, Morten Messerschmidt, is removed at the request of the co-author himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150049	The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150053	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150056	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for having the time. Can the government guarantee that no Danish children are in danger of life, seriously ill or malnourished in a health threatening manner in Al-Roj camp?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150109	Thank you to the questioner for that question. I think everyone agrees that cases involving children hurt. They have difficult dilemmas. And as the questioner may be aware, the government cannot issue guarantees of conditions in camps in conflict countries. This is a deeply tragic situation that parents have brought their children into. Parents have made an active choice to leave Denmark and join an extremely violent terrorist organisation. They have turned their backs on Denmark and they have given their children the worst possible start to life. It hurts to think about. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is trying to follow up through humanitarian organisations if current and urgent medical needs become known. But let me make it clear that it is the parents who have chosen to turn their backs on Denmark. It is the parents who are responsible for the situation in which their children now find themselves. There is no doubt that these are difficult conditions in a camp like Al-Roj camp. The humanitarian organisations are undertaking a major task. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in continuous dialogue with the humanitarian organisations in the camps on, for example: the health conditions. Denmark is also actively contributing to the assistance of the humanitarian organisations involved. Overall, Denmark is the eighth largest donor in Syria. We are making an active effort to address the extremely complex and difficult situation in Syria. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs learns about urgent medical needs through relatives, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tries to facilitate the care of the child by people with relevant expertise and receive the treatment that is possible and necessary in the given conditions. This is done through contact with the humanitarian organisations in the camps, and this presupposes that the family wants the child examined and gives permission to do so. In cases of four particularly vulnerable children, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched humanitarian or medical evacuations in 2019. This has been done in close cooperation with other Danish authorities. These are three orphans, young children and a seriously wounded 13-year-old boy. In a single case of two orphans with a French-Danish background, this has also been done in close cooperation with France. So let me conclude by saying that the government's approach is fully in line with that of most other EU countries. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150336	Thank you. There are 2 minutes' reply and there are 2 minutes' question to the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150340	I understand that the government and the Social Democrats use the wording, that parents have turned their backs on Denmark. What I just think is unfortunate is that Denmark has turned its back on the children, especially in the light of what the Minister starts by saying, namely that one cannot guarantee that the conditions in these camps are such that these children are not harmed. I would like to stress that I fully agree that it is by no means right to go down and fight for the Islamic State. That goes without saying. I just think it is very, very wrong to punish those children for the work they have not chosen. For the time being, it is certainly the case that children cannot choose their parents. For many, they have been born in Syria and are now in this camp, and the government cannot guarantee their health. This comes at the back of both Denmark's Radios P1's Slotsholmen and also Politiken this weekend, who can prove that there are at least two children, where the Ministry has obtained a medical certificate saying that the two children will have a lasting mental but by being in that camp. The Minister said back in September last year, in consultation, that it may be that children should be taken out if they can be exposed to a situation that makes them have lasting mental and physical but, and there are at least two children who, according to the Ministry itself or at least the report ordered from a specialist will receive. My question to the Minister will then be: what is it necessary for the Danish Government to go in and save some children from a situation which is obviously unsustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150547	Thank you. Firstly, it is important to emphasise that the humanitarian situation, among other things. in the camps, but also generally in Syria, of course, the government, as I also mentioned, is among the largest donors, in fact the eighth largest donor, of humanitarian aid to the hard-tried civilian population in Syria. It is very important to emphasise that. As I am sure the questioner understands, I cannot go into individual cases that are pending. The matter referred to by the honourable Member is still under discussion, which is why I cannot, of course, give any further information. Secondly, I would also like to emphasise that the government's line was withdrawn at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 6 September 2019. That's why it's going to be too comprehensive to go into all aspects here, but we've put a line in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150637	There should of course be no doubt that in the Radical Left we think that all these Danish children should be brought home because the conditions are such that you per. definition must be in danger of life, as we see it, by being in that camp at all, and we should take responsibility for that. I understand that the Minister will not comment on specific cases. But I think the Minister should be able to explain to a curious population why it is not enough to order a report which says that there is a risk of lasting psychicism but, and it has been said that this is precisely what determines whether to bring the children home. Well, if there's a specialist report that says what the government wants it to do, why isn't that good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150716	I am grateful to the honourable Member for understanding that I cannot go into pending cases which are still under discussion. I'm not gonna do that either. I would say in general terms that the government's line is quite clear in relation to people who have had citizenship or residence in this country: if they go out, Denmark turns its back, join the Islamic State's kingdom of death and commit the worst atrocities one can imagine, those people must take responsibility for their actions, and we do not want them back to Denmark. That is our clear line and we stand firm on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150750	It's so fine, but it's just not the kids who chose it. So the kids are being punished for something their parents have done... maybe done. That is what we have a vertical disagreement with the Social Democratic Party about. It has to be said that we cannot get an answer. There are relatives here in Denmark who would like to know what it takes for their children, grandchildren in Syria to come home, but we cannot be told what to document, and I think the government should consider whether they could not present what it takes for a child or more children to be brought home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150828-2	That is why I referred to the consultation on 6 September 2019, but I would like to go into some detail with the questioner. It cannot be excluded that there is a health situation for the individual child, which in some cases could develop in a way that could exceptionally give rise to action by the Danish side. However, a child will, as a rule, only be evacuated if the child is in a serious health situation which cannot be treated locally and which, if untreated, can either develop life-threatening or can cause serious permanent but permanent damage. This requires, in each case, a thorough analysis of a wide range of aspects, including, for example: residence in Denmark, if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150913	Thank you. The question is closed. 775.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150922	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150923	Thank you. Does the Minister still agree with the Council of Europe's Torture Committee's criticism of the situation at the Aliens Centre Ellebæk since the Minister intends to respond to various criticisms as requested by the delegation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150936	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311150938	The report of the Council of Europe's Torture Committee contains a wide range of recommendations which the government is looking at critically. The Torture Committee recommends, among other things, that the government closes the Aliens Centre Ellebæk. The government doesn't plan on doing that. The Torture Committee also recommends that foreigners are not detained under what they consider to be prison-like conditions. The government has no plans to change that either. It comes, for example. not to talk about breaking down all fences and ring walls and opening all locked doors. The purpose of detention foreigners is that we know where they are if there is an opportunity to send them out of the country. As the Government's response to the Torture Committee shows, the aim is also to motivate foreigners to cooperate in their deployment. That's why Ellebæk shouldn't be a nice place to be in detention. I stand by that. Detectives have been planning to refurbish the men's accommodation department at the center since 2017. In the opinion of the Department of Justice, such renovation is necessary if Ellebæk is to be able to continue to operate for many years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151106	I do not think the Minister answered my question and that is why I am standing here today. I would like some answers to what I am asking. I am told that you will now begin to renovate. These are not the answers that the Minister has given me in the past, and that is why I ask specifically whether the criticism is now being met. There are certain parts that you do not meet, but there is indeed something that you are responding to. And what surprises me is that the government, in a clear answer to the United Nations Committee on Torture, says that it is the residents themselves who are vandalising the place. The two times I have visited the place, it has also been my opinion, and that is also what I heard. Oddly enough, women were much nicer than men, and that is also what I hear from the Minister's reply. I think that is actually what the government should have replied to the United Nations Committee on Torture, and then we should either have left the place as it is, or asked the residents themselves to clean up and put it in order instead of engaging craftsmen, which must be an expensive thing we are about to do. Do you have any price on how much this is going to cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151208	I agree with the questioner that it is the residents themselves who are vandalising the place. I agree with that, and I myself have found that the women's department is much better maintained, if I may say so, or at least not in default as the men's department. But I also have to say that the decision on the possible rehabilitation of the men's department at Ellebæk was decided by the previous government, in other words that it should be put in place. So it's not a new decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151249	But area manager Anne Erlandsen also says that you have been up and looking at the conditions, and you only feel that it is natural when there is such a report and that the renovation is related to the report. There is no doubt about that at all. And that is just something else we have heard, partly because the Minister, having been a little forward and back, i.e. whether it was the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Justice who had to answer this perhaps a little unpleasant question, replied that what the Minister says should not be a nice place to be. Now I do not remember the choice of words, but at least you got the impression that it was something that was quite right. I am not satisfied with the answer and I will just ask again next Wednesday if the Minister does not reply properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151332-2	I am happy to reply next Wednesday, but I wonder if the answer will be the same. The fact is that we wanted to have it here in invitations to tender, by the way, a new facility, and that we had to make a call for tenders, and it was said back at the turn of the year to this year that we were now beginning a phase-by-stage renovation. It is true, as the questioner says, that then, following the CPT report Ellebæk, the management will visit the Department of Criminal Welfare and approve this plan for multi-stage rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151413	How long does the minister think that the place appears in such a repaired state after the renovation and purchase of new furniture that the UN Torture Committee is satisfied? Unfortunately, I am afraid that in some time we will see exactly the same thing again with the attitude that is still missing to things up there. I don't think you change the approach to the furniture and expression of the place just because it's being shredded up. And I asked the Minister for a price. Do you have an estimate of how much this is going to cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151446	As far as furniture and new furniture are concerned, it has been purchased back in 2017-2018, just as back in 2018 it was decided to expand the number of seats to be up in Ellebæk. In this way, we should have an invitation to tender which will have to reflect the price of building these extra seats, as long as we have the situation with these mainly rejected asylum seekers, which, unfortunately, we cannot get out of the country immediately. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151519	Thank you to the Minister for Justice and thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 774, and it is tabled by Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151533	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151539	Does the Minister agree that it is reprehensible if the return of children from Syria is placed in an Islamist environment, and can the Minister guarantee that a brought child will in no case end up in a radicalised environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151559	Of course, brought home children of foreign fighters and other radicalised persons should not grow up in homes here in Denmark, where there is a risk of their safety and development and hence the risk of children being radicalised. We should not accept that. It is therefore crucial that the authorities have the right tools and are equipped to deal with the child and to make a concrete assessment of whether there is cause for concern about radicalisation or extremism. Of course, the individual caseworker in the municipality should not be left alone in the task, but should be able to obtain relevant advice and sparring. This is among other things. Therefore, so-called infohouses have been established, which is a cooperation between the municipalities of the country and the 12 police circles on the radicalisation prevention work. The purpose of the local infohucollaboration is to uncover, assess and deal with inquiries about concerns about extremism. Municipalities can also receive advice from VISO, the National Knowledge and Special Advisory Organisation. VISO can provide advice in relation to radicalised children and young people who are in different ways in a vulnerable and problematic social situation. However, the authorities must also have the necessary tools to be able to intervene when necessary. Here the government believes that there is a need to strengthen efforts. That is why the government has decided to set up a committee which, until May of this year, will highlight the possibility of changing the rules on the placement of children and young people outside the home in order to protect them from growing up in a radicalised environment, because we must go a long way to ensure that as a society we protect and take the best possible care of children of foreign warriors so that they do not risk being radicalised. Finally, the government will soon come forward with a proposal to amend the parental responsibility law so that foreign fighters are cut off as far as possible from contact with their children, if the other parent so wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151750	Thank you for your answer. I do not think the Minister's answer is quite clear. It doesn't surprise me that much. For just under four months, we've been waiting for a written answer to this question. It's been sent around a little from one ministry to another. No one really has given us an answer. I would therefore like to give the Minister an opportunity to answer this question orally. I have even been kind enough not to ask the Minister whether Danish legislation even provides the legal basis for bringing back children from Syria in no case is placed in an Islamist environment. After all, we are waiting for that question to be answered in writing. Now I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the question again: can the Minister guarantee that a child brought back will in no case end up in a radicalised environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151848-2	Firstly, I understand the impatience of the questioner, because there is a need to step up efforts so that children do not grow up at the risk of being radicalised. Children should not grow up in radicalised and violent environments here in Denmark. That is why we must work quickly, but we must also ensure that we work properly and thoroughly. That is why we are setting up the committee to uncover how we can change the rules on forced housing for children and young people outside the home so that we can protect children and young people from growing up in radicalised environments. The committee will be preparing possible solutions this spring, and so we are also looking towards being able to table a legislative proposal in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151931	So, there are more children who have already been brought home from Syria to Denmark, and one of them is located with the grandparents and an aunt • grandparents whose child went to Syria to fight against Danish values. Does the Minister really think it is a good idea that they should now take care of another child? Does the Minister honestly not consider this to be reprehensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311151955-2	Frankly, I do not think that the questioner expects me, as a minister, to be able or have to stand here and deal with a specific matter. What the government has reported clearly is that we believe more needs to be done in terms of protecting children from growing up in radicalised, violent environments. It is, on the one hand, a new presumption in our parental responsibility legislation and, on the other hand, a committee of experts to see how far we can go in relation to the discussion on forced housing of children outside the home on this basis. But that doesn't mean that no concrete assessments are already being made today in cases where there are concerns, and in my answer time is going fast. I was about this Infohu Collaboration, which makes it possible for municipalities to get better dressed for this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152039	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152040	Again: I would have hoped a little that the Minister had actually had an opinion on and thought something about whether it is optimal or not optimal that this child should be placed in a family that has already fostered one IS terrorist. But the Minister will not answer that question. But then the Minister can be allowed here to give the Folketing and the Danes the promise that a brought home child will not be placed in an Islamist radicalised environment. Can the Minister promise the Danes and the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152114	The government has already set in motion work to better protect children from growing up in radicalised, violent environments. I agree with the questioner that it is a problem if that happens. I do not think the questioner quite honestly expected us to be able to deal with a specific individual matter here in the Chamber; it is not my role as minister, nor, incidentally, is it something we are doing in this Chamber. Now we have to act, and I would like to make it very clear here that I do not think we should accept that children and young people grow up in environments where there is a risk of their well-being, of their development, of their safety, and I believe that there is a great deal of that if they grow up in radicalised environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152154	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 783, and that is what Mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152205	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152206	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the great difference between how long disabled citizens have to wait for aids like this? a wheelchair, depending on where they live in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152220	I assume that the question arises from the case of a young man who has had to wait 40 weeks to get a new wheelchair because he has grown out of his old one, a matter which I was at least also debating in this Chamber last Wednesday, albeit with a different member of parliament from the questioner, but which I am glad we will now have the opportunity to have a dialogue on again in this Chamber. It is simply not acceptable to wait so long for an indispensable aid in cases where it has to be said that the municipality already knows the needs of the citizen, the level of function, nor can it surprise a municipality that a 15-year-old boy is bigger than he was when he was 12 years old and that he is growing out of his wheelchair at some point. That is why I would also like to thank you for raising the issue from a slightly different angle to that we had when we discussed it here last week, because it is not only important that we should not wait long for a necessary remedy, but it is also important that the difference in the help given to people with disabilities does not become too large across municipal boundaries. I think that's what Danske Handicap organisations call postcode bingo or postcode lottery, and we don't want that. Wherever you live in the country, you need help when you need it, and the allocation of help must never depend on what zip code you have. The local politicians will also know that, within the legal framework, the questioner can give different priority to different municipalities. This offers opportunities for municipal budgets to be adapted to local needs and wishes, but citizens' needs must always be at the centre and differences must not be too great across the country. This requires, among other things, that the municipalities assume their responsibility for handling cases and making decisions as soon as possible. We are already in the process of giving the municipalities a better opportunity to give priority to the area of disability by giving the whole welfare area a much-needed economic boost. We did so with last year's economic agreements, the biggest boost for many years, and this was followed by a financial law that also raised the citizens' welfare. That doesn't mean we're in the finish line. I recognise that, in addition to local government politicians having to give priority to the area, we also need to do something more on a national political level. Therefore, as part of the government's work to strengthen legal certainty, I would also like to look at the possibilities of both reducing and standardising processing times in the field of disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152431-2	Thank you. First of all, on the economic agreement and the Finance Act, I would like to say that these are two things that we, as Radicals, have also been involved in and which we would very much like to see translated into better conditions for disabled people. The challenge is, of course, that today there is no limitation on how long a municipality may spend on processing aids. As the Minister points out, this gives rise to very large differences in time between municipalities, and at the same time it has increased the duration of the proceedings if compared from 2011 to now. For example: there is almost a year's processing time on support for a disabled car, but also on other conditions. My question is this: does the Minister intend to take action on concrete measures to solve the problem of the long processing times in the social field?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152519	Thank you. We also discussed this last week, i.e. the fascinating thing about saying that we will then draw up some key guidelines. In itself, there can be a whole lot more low-practical challenges about which citizen has what need, what aid? The situation will be individual and therefore the municipalities must also be able to make an individual assessment. At any rate, there are obvious risks by trying to centralise this and thinking that it can be solved with key guidelines. First of all, we can risk that a legal deadline for the duration of proceedings will end up being the deadline for all cases to be settled, i.e. those cases which should be settled much faster. Secondly, however, legal time limits in one area may mean that the duration of proceedings will then be longer in other areas. And I would like to warn you at all that we believe that we can solve everything from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152612	Time is running way too fast, the Minister mentions. But that is hardly the case when you have to wait for a tool to help you. Can it really be true that a disabled boy with cerebral palsy is exactly what is happening here, in other words spastic paralysis can only get help in six months because his parents go to the press? That is also the case. I think that is quite unreasonable, even if the boy has now received help. That is why my question is this: what is the Minister's position on the proposal from Danske Handicaporganisations to introduce national guidelines for processing times and decision deadlines, which is one of the specific proposals of the disability movement in their social policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152651-2	Well, it was a good thing that I used to spend my speaking time actually getting ahead of that question a little. I'd say this isn't very simple. A significant part of the pressure that we are experiencing in the field of disability in the municipalities, I believe, is due to the pressure on budgets that have been held and that the welfare out there has been underfunded under the bourgeois government. We're not gonna fix that with a fingertips, but we're on it and we're gonna keep going. This also means, of course, that there is a responsibility for the municipalities when we lift the budgets for municipal welfare, so that you also look at the area of disability. The second part of the discussion is, of course, how best to ensure that the processing times do not become too long. And we're probably gonna get another round on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152730	Exactly. There may be very long overall processing times in municipalities and the Ankestyrelsen, in some places the total processing time is over a year. That is why, following on from what the Minister also mentioned just now, I would like to ask when the Minister will look at the overall processing times and times for complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152749	I will do so when we have to look at the subject of proceedings at all and at the crisis of confidence that I do not hesitate to say that there is in this area; a crisis of confidence between the municipalities and the citizens who experience that it is too hard a struggle to get the help they are entitled to. I kind of have a pretty open mind. I have some concerns about legal guidelines, what I have said, but there are also other proposals from Danske Handicap organisations that I think may be interesting and relevant to take further in this discussion, for example. the proposal on aid centres working across municipalities. Can it be part of the solution for the municipalities where you have very long processing time and lack the professional expertise to do so quickly enough? I will take that into account in these considerations, and this is a work that the government takes seriously and gives priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152834	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg, and thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. It's a few short rounds, but that's the whole point of it. That's what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, and enquirer is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152851	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152854	The question is: Does the Minister believe that the level of corporate tax is an expression of a healthy balance between the state's financing needs and the economy as a whole, when Denmark can be made 3.3 billion? kr. richer if the state spends 1.3 billion. kr. to reduce corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311152916	The answer is yes. I think that the third time is a success with these questions and therefore the answer cannot surprise the questioner. Fortunately, the Danish economy is basically healthy, but there are uncertainties, not least now that we are witnessing an outbreak of the corona virus. Brexit, trade wars and other things also increase the risk of a slowdown in the Danish economy, and it is therefore clear that we must think very seriously about what we are spending the money on. In the parliamentary elections last year, the voters clearly said no to unfair tax cuts financed by, among other things, the United Kingdom. cuts in education for our young people and care for our children, the sick and the elderly. That is why there has been a change of direction, and the reality is that if you had to reduce corporate tax by one percentage point, it would mean that you had a bill of 2.7 billion. kr. In short, that money would have to be found somewhere else. If an estimate is included for so-called dynamic effects, then you end up with that 1.3 billion. kr. to which the author refers. But the question is where the money is to be found, and this is, of course, a central discussion, because if we want to do what the questioner says, we will need to double the green harvest that the previous government rolled over the area of youth education, namely the so-called re-priority contribution in the field of education. The government is opposed to this and therefore, as I said, the answer is quite brief. We believe that the balance is right and there is no need to finance this type of action with, for example, large savings on children and young people's education again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153059	I'm sure I can find better places to finance a relief from corporate tax. This is quite interesting, because it is the Minister's own officials who say that if you reduce corporate tax by 1 percentage point from 22 per cent. At 21%, society will be 3.3 billion. kr. richer, and it costs only the Treasury 1.3 billion. kr. The Minister considers this to be an expression of a healthy balance between two reasonable considerations. One is that the state needs to scratch in some money, and the other is that we also need to ensure prosperity and development in society and companies that can thrive in Denmark. And just to make it quite clear: that is like saying to the Danes that in order to get 1.3 billion. kr., then society must avoid and refrain from becoming 3.3 billion. kr. richer. That would be like buying 1 litre of milk, then paying for 3 litres of milk, and then it is obviously a healthy balance between two different reasonable considerations. Can the Minister of Taxation explain what factual reasons there are for the Danes indirectly to pay for 3 litres of milk when they receive only 1 litre of milk? they have to pay 3.3 billion. kr. for the welfare of 1.3 billion. kr.? What are the real reasons for this? Can the Minister of Taxation elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153218	Yeah, it's like I told you. Before you can do that exercise, there has to be funding of 1.3 billion. kr., and you can find it if you want. I agree with that, but the question is whether it is true. The question is whether it is right, for example, to return to what the Liberal Alliance, when they were in government, really hit hard, in other words the need for the re-priority contribution in the public sector, for example. Some of what we have had to remove has been savings in the field of education for approx. 700 million kr. You can then double that if you want to finance that exercise, and that is the factual reason why the government thinks it is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153254-2	Should the tax minister's answer generally be understood so that Danish society and the overall welfare of the Danes are improved by the fact that the Treasury has 1.3 billion. kr., compared to the fact that society and Danes as a whole receive 3.3 billion. kr.? Is it such a general view of society that the tax minister has, that is to say, to get money in the treasury creates more value than much money out there in society does?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153321-2	No, it certainly isn't. This is basically about priorities: what are we going to spend the money on? The money has to be found, and I am well aware that theoretical calculations can be made about this. I have been in the same discussion with former finance ministers; there have been lengthy discussions in the past about what the money would be used for. I just want to say that the government disagrees with the fact that this is a priority that is necessary, firstly and secondly, good for the Danish economy. We believe that the priorities we have set are some that help to ensure that the Danish economy is sustainable in the long term and can be in progress, by investing in education instead of spending a lot of effort on finding savings in education, as the previous government did.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153408	Thank you. Then there is one minute where the co-questioner can ask a question. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153413	Thank you. After all, you choose where you want to save money, and there is total public expenditure of 1 100 billion. kr. in Denmark, so you don't have to save on education if you want to lower corporate tax. One could, for example: Don't raise the cash benefits like the government does. You could also take from the 20 billion. kr. provided in business support from the State to the companies. We only have to find 1.3 billion. kr. to lower corporate tax in this situation, on the other hand, society will be 3.3 billion. kr. richer. I think the tax minister should go into this discussion openly and try to see the possibilities for us to make society 3.3 billion. kr. richer by reducing corporate tax by 1 percentage point, which costs the Treasury only 1.3 billion. kr. Instead of just saying that something that the Minister has dearly loved is going to suffer, so he will not be involved, so let us try to find the money somewhere else. If it is not education that the tax minister wants to save, it may be business support or not to raise cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153523	Thank you. Then it's one minute for the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153524	Fortunately, it is not my job to find funding proposals for the political point of view of the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance itself must be the target of this. Well, I disagree with this proposal, which is why, of course, I think it is a bad idea. If you want to put it forward, you are welcome to it, and then you have to find funding for it yourself; that cannot be my problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153542	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153543	We have plenty of funding proposals. But the tax minister just said that it would necessarily mean saving on education and it shouldn't. We do not have any proposals to make significant savings on training, but we have proposals to make savings on business support and we do not like raising cash aid as the government does. So there were some options. But now I understand from the tax minister that he doesn't really care where the money is found; he's simply opposed to lowering the corporation tax rate. No matter how you find the money, corporation tax must not be reduced, despite the fact that if the state spends 1.3 billion. kr. On that, society will be 3.3 billion. kr. richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153622	I think it is clear to everyone, not least when you listen a little to what the Liberal Alliance stood for when they were in government and what they stand for now, that there are major differences between the Social Democratic Government and the Liberal Alliance. And that is quite fair; we agree with that priority. Danish corporation tax is about the same as the EU average, and the Danish economy is basically healthy. There are major challenges for the Danish economy, not least right now. Yesterday, together with two colleagues, I presented a helping hand to the Danish business community, which ensures liquidity of 125 billion. I therefore think that we should think seriously about what we are proposing to spend the money on. And this is the wrong priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153706	And then it's sir. Alex Vanopslagh in the final round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153709	Just to spell it out completely, so even some dull types like Ole Birk Olesen and I can be involved, I would like to ask: if the Liberal Alliance put forward a proposal that corporation tax should be reduced by 1 percentage point in order to make society 3.3 billion. kr. richer and you only have to find 1.3 billion. kr. to make the big profit, and it was said that this funding is to be found by looking at whether there is anything in the business aid scheme for 20 billion. kr., you can save, and perhaps something in foreign aid, which is also up there about 20 billion. kr., the government will then think that it is more important that we provide pools and subsidies for business and pools and grants for projects abroad than that we do the Danish society 3.3 billion. kr. richer? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153753	After all, this is a hypothetical discussion, because the Liberal Alliance itself must propose funding for the proposal that is being made here. Well, that's not the government's problem. If the Liberal Alliance wants to do this, so make a proposal in the Folketing, then that is quite fine; you are free to do so. You're gonna have to find out where the money's gonna be. I disagree with the need to reduce our corporate tax. It is about an average level in relation to what it is in the European Union. Danish economy is basically healthy, but there are quite serious challenges currently, also on the horizon. I think that is much better to use our powers to stem this, so that the uncertainties do not become permanent in the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153838	Thank you. The question is over. 770.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153846	Here you go, sir. Alex Vanopslagh reading aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153848	Does the Minister agree that all Danes are burdened by corporation tax, as both employees and people on transfer income will gain income gains by lowering corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311153900	As the questioner also knows, company tax is an important part of the Danish tax system and therefore also contributes significantly to the financing of the welfare society and public service and, of course, public investment, which we also briefly touched on. In 2018, revenues from corporate tax amounted to approx. 61 billion kr. This corresponds to approx. 6% of total revenue from taxes and duties. The company tax is paid initially by companies that have generated profits and thus profits in Denmark. So that ensures, among other things, that. also that value created in Denmark is taxed in this country, even if the companies should be wholly or partly owned from abroad. At the same time, corporate tax also guarantees companies whose profits include: builds on our infrastructure; and, of course, a well-functioning and well-trained workforce also contributes to the financing of our welfare society by corporate taxation. Finally, corporate tax is also a tax on the extraordinary returns that some companies obtain from using the common social resource, if they want, as we all contribute to, for example. in the form of hydrocarbon recovery in the North Sea and fishing in Danish waters. So all in all, I think that the way in which corporate taxation is organised is both fair and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154023-2	That was an excellent answer, just not to the question I asked. The question was whether the Minister agreed that corporation tax was a burden on ordinary employees. When I ask that question, it is because the tax minister's own officials write that, when you lower corporate tax, it will increase the level of investment and productivity of private companies and that in the long term it will be reflected in higher salaries for private individuals. This will also be reflected in higher salaries in the public sector and, for that matter, also in transfer recipients. This means that the inequality, even if you completely removed the corporation tax, we do not want that in the Liberal Alliance, but even if you hypothetically did it would change by zero and that the Gini coefficient would not move by as much as a decimal. So there is an opportunity for the government to pursue a working policy that reduces corporation tax slightly, which increases wages without increasing inequality, and the tax minister's own officials say that a high corporation tax is something that is directly burdened and paid by employees and by the rest of society, so to speak. That is, of course, the answer to the question, and I think that maybe it was also one of the reasons why, when he was last in government, the tax minister helped to reduce corporation tax himself. Seven years ago it was a healthy social democratic labour policy to reduce corporation tax, so it benefited employees. What has changed over the last seven years since it is no longer a healthy social democratic labour policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154152	Basically, Danish economy is good and healthy, but there are great uncertainties on the horizon. However, I am pleased with the praises of the former Socialist-led government, and I understand that a company tax of 0 per cent. It is almost complete socialism. However, the point is simply that it is basically about priorities, and we believe that this is the right way to use Community resources. We think so. Danish economy is basically healthy. Many reforms and many real priorities have ensured that the hand can be held under healthy and sustainable development for the Danish economy. We are now quite currently challenged, and this is very serious. We have tried to give a helping hand to this yesterday with a very, very large aid package, and that is why I think again that what it is all about is to find out whether you really think this is a proper priority. The government doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154254	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154255	We have a corporation tax which is one of the most distorting taxes we have in this country at all. This is clearly exemplified by the fact that society, if you lower corporation tax by one percentage point, will then be 3.3 billion. kr. richer, and it costs only 1.3 billion. kr. It will increase wages. It will not increase inequality, and it will also benefit employees. Can the Minister of Taxation explain why corporation tax, compared with other taxes, is an optimal way of recovering taxes when it is so expensive for society and that, by lowering it, it would benefit employees without increasing inequality? Should it not be almost a socialist priority to look at a reform of the tax system, so as to lower taxes on companies and perhaps increase taxes elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154339	I think I can say that I am incredibly grateful for the great interest in the government's tax policy, including that of the questioner, in relation to the many good ideas that are being put forward here, and that is quite fair. Basically, as I said, this is about priorities and we do not think that this is the right priority. If it was the case that corporate taxation at the present level was so terrible, then it is still strange that in the Danish economy, in the years when it has been maintained at that level, even under the previous government, there has been the progress that has been made. It must give food for thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154417	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154418	That's a very interesting answer from the tax minister. For we have received in writing a reply from the tax minister, where the tax minister black and white writes that if you lower corporate tax, both private employees and public employees will be richer by it, and so do people who receive transfer income from the public sector. Everyone gets richer by it. Then the tax minister answers here today: yes, yes, but this is about priorities. So that means that the tax minister, knowing that he can make all Danes richer by lowering corporation tax, is giving priority to something else he simply will not. That's where he'd rather do something else. He prefers to withdraw cash aid, he prefers to spend a lot of money on business support, he prefers to throw money out for foreign aid, which does not help in developing countries, than to make Danish employees and private employees • and also transfer income recipients richer, for this is the priority given to the tax minister. It is about priorities, he says, and he does not prioritise Danish employees and people on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154530	It's just so weird that the Danish economy, under this government's relatively short course of action, has, at least until now, continued its very good progress. But we are in a serious situation where I think it is important for us to think carefully, and that is why we do not want to hear the government say that we are almost wasting money throwing money, I understand, into development aid, which is of no use to any world. I have to say that are points of view which I do not, of course, support. Well, this costs money, and we still need to hear: where is the money to be found? If you want to make this proposal, I think you should make it. I'd be happy to discuss that with you. But I think that is the wrong priority, and there we just disagree, that is politics. What is politics about? After all, this is about the distribution of the benefits of society, and thus also the priority of society's benefits, and we disagree with that priority. For example, we will not be helping to restore the savings in education that were in force when Ole Birk Olesen among others. sat in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154636	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154637	The priorities of the Minister for Taxation are in line with the policy pursued by the government over the six months it has been in existence, because the government's draft budget also made all social groups poorer. That does not have to be believed in when I say it, but it is black and white in a reply from the Minister for Finance that all income groups in Denmark are becoming poorer as a result of the government's Finance Act. And now we have the tax minister's word that he will not give priority to making the Danes richer by lowering corporation tax, so that investment will increase in Denmark, so that you get more out of the work that you do, so that you can get a higher salary. It is the tax minister's priorities that the Danes should not be richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154721	In other words, where the previous government lacked priorities, for example. investment in our tax administration, and if you were going to implement this proposal, I guess it was in the vicinity of what this government is putting into such direct investment in our tax administration as you would find, just by 2020. It is just to say that it is not without cost in more than one sense to have these views. So I think the proposal should be put forward. Then we are debating it, and then the Liberal Alliance must also try to come forward with: where is the saving to be found? Is it on the educations? Is it with primary school teachers, with nurses, under the conditions of children and young people? Or is it the case that the Liberal Alliance will not help to bring about the recovery of the tax administration that the government has set in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh for the last round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154810	That's an incredibly unbelievable tax minister we have. We are talking about reducing corporate tax by one percentage point, and that costs 1.3 billion. kr., i.e. what equals 0.1%. of all State expenditure of more than 1000 billion. kr., and then the tax minister thinks that the only place that can apparently be saved is at school teachers and educators, in other words the usual social democratic controversy that it is apparently the only place that can be saved in the public sector. However, since the Minister of Taxation believes that this is a good way of recovering money in society, it is a good priority that public spending can be increased at the expense of wage increases by employees and at the expense of the prosperity of society, what really is the reason why the government will not increase corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154855	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154855-2	Because we believe that it is at a sound level and, in recent years, it has helped to ensure that the Danish economy has been able to maintain its progress. I think this is both factual and sound and also politically justifiable. So there should not be a difference of opinion between us there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154918	Thank you. Now this question is over. We move on to the next question, Question 771, which is also addressed to the tax minister with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen who asks and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154931	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154932	Does the Minister see an advantage in being at the forefront of the developments that we, for example, see? Does Sweden see a reduction in corporate tax in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154943	No, I have to say, and I don't think this is a road we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311154950-2	Now it is the case that in 2021 the Swedish Government will reduce corporate tax in Sweden to a level of 20.6%, where we in Denmark are 22 per cent, i.e. 20%. almost one and a half percentage points under Denmark. This means that every time a company in Denmark pays DKK 100. in corporation tax, the same company in Sweden, if it lived over there, would be able to pay only DKK 94. in corporation tax, therefore, not DKK 100, but DKK 94. Would it be completely incomprehensible in the eyes of the tax minister if there were some who thought: Now I must start business; I don't want to start business in Denmark, where you have the tax minister as tax minister, because he is quite unbearable to want to lighten the tax burden on the company I have to start; then I start it right over on the other side of the Øresund link, in Malmö, instead, because there I only have to pay DKK 94. in corporation tax every time I in Denmark pay 100 DKK. in corporation tax? Would it be an unnatural idea for someone who wants to set up a company and who wants it to do the best and hopes that it will manage in competition with foreign companies, to think: let us do it in Sweden; they have a better business climate than Denmark, where you have a government that won't go that way at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155113	After all, it must contribute to just a little reflection on the part of the questioner that the situation is that in recent years, when corporate tax has been in place, even when the author's party was in government, it has, after all, managed to maintain a very clear progress in the Danish economy with a steadily increasing employment and a business climate that is praised very many places. The questioner should be impressed. I don't think we should start a race to the bottom, so to speak. I do not think that Denmark should take the lead there. We are about the EU average, and I think that is the right level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155200	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155201	But it is now the next year that Sweden will further reduce corporate tax, so corporate tax in Sweden will be almost 11⁄2 percentage points below Danish corporate tax. So what has happened in the past, we can theorize about, but now it's about the future. It is about Sweden having a lower corporation tax than Denmark. Then it is just that I ask the tax minister if he can imagine that there will be some companies thinking: it seems that Sweden would rather have us than Denmark, because in Denmark we have a tax minister who is not inclined at all to think about tax conditions for companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155240-2	I believe that the companies that are in Denmark, if you want, will, what is the overall framework for establishing themselves in Denmark, what is the framework for developing your business in Denmark. What many different analyses show each time is that Denmark ranks very, very high when it comes to running a business. We have a well-trained workforce and we have a stable political environment. Then the question is, what are we going to spend our money on in addition? Should we support it? We think we should. Should we take part in such a race to the bottom and just lower taxes on corporation tax, which the Liberal Alliance supports? I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155327	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, who can ask questions for one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155331	However, it is not a question of a race to the bottom corporate tax. It is a question of Denmark being able to preserve the companies that are in Denmark today, of being able to attract companies in the future, and of being able to attract society and not just the box that Mr. Morten Bødskov sits on, is rich. It's not just the one who's supposed to be bulging. The boxes in the community can also fill a little more. I just need to make this clear, because I am in favour of the Minister not wanting to lower corporate tax. However, the Minister acknowledges that if our neighbouring countries have significantly lower corporate tax rates, this will give them a competitive advantage, and in the long term this may mean that even Mr. Morten Bødskov is missing income in the treasury, and more importantly, is society becoming relatively poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155427	Thank you, and I would like to remind you that the Minister is mentioned only by his title and not by his name. But here you go, the treasure minister. I apologise to the Minister for Taxation).
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155433	It's okay. I think it is important that we take stock of this debate, and that is also why the government, supported by parts of the previous government, has at least been actively involved with the European Union in order to ensure that exactly corporate taxation does not become one, if you like, a competitive parameter and a downward spiral in relation to the possibilities of securing the tax base for financing the welfare society in the future, in other words in the European Union. That is why, of course, the government has entered into these discussions, and I think that is important, because otherwise we will end up where the Liberal Alliance wants us to end up, in other words, it is everyone's war against everyone when it comes to corporate taxation. And the government does not agree with that; we believe that the money should be spent differently. In other words, if money and funding were to be found now, I would think that, in relation to the policy pursued by the Liberal Alliance when one was last in government, it would be natural for money to be found, in other words the Liberal Alliance, on savings, for example. the field of education. It's the government 100 percent. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155542	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155543	The Minister of Taxation says that if the countries around Denmark lower their corporation tax, Denmark may have to do the same, and thus, fortunately, the tax minister also answers the question: Yes, it would be an advantage for Denmark also to lower corporation tax, otherwise companies would lose to other countries. That's the logical conclusion to the concern of a race to the bottom corporate tax I'd almost rather call it a race to the top. Now we have been discussing corporation tax for a few minutes, and the impression that you get is that what matters to the tax minister is not the concern for society's growth, but that you have to pick companies for as much money as possible, but just not pick them so much that they move out of the country because it would, of course, go out of the state treasury. Is it true that it is the tax minister's view of how to conduct tax policy, that is to say that it is about maximising tax payments and not doing what is best in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155631	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155632	No, that's not correct. And now I could sit down, but I'll try to justify it. Because what this is all about is ensuring that tax policy also helps to promote that we have a healthy, viable, competitive Danish economy which can help create the many jobs we need in the future. That is why responsibility must be taken. And yesterday, together with the Minister for Finance and Industry, I presented a helping hand in the current critical situation for Danish economy and Danish business of as much as 125 billion. kr. increased cash flow. I do not think that this is the case, on the contrary, by taking responsibility for a very serious situation, and that has always been the policy of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155716	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155725	Now we have been talking for a few minutes about corporation tax, so let us end with a completely open question: why is it really so important to take a lot of money from corporate profits that they could have used to invest in greater production in the future, greater efficiency, research on their territory, when one could actually just settle for that when companies pay out profits to the owners, which the owners can use on private goods cars, houses, travels, all sorts of things they pay taxes, but when companies keep the money, it is good that they have them so that they can invest in a better future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155802	So, with these views one must understand at the Liberal Alliance, I think they have really been tied on their hands and feet in the previous government, because there has certainly been no room for all this. So it must be a pleasure to come into opposition. And I think you should keep doing that, I would say, because these debates are fantastic; they help to draw clear differences in Danish politics. So please keep that up, because if there is something that the voters said no to in the parliamentary elections, that was exactly what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen stands and says here: biased tax cuts financed by savings on our basic welfare. There has just been a change of direction from the time you were in government to now with the government that sits there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155842	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Taxation, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 768, which is addressed to the Minister of Transport by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155856	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155857	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the traffic situation on the heavily trafficed Thistedvej in Nørresundby • who drives 13,000 motorists a day • after starting the train to Aalborg Airport and the resulting roadblocks 24 minutes per hour?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311155918	First of all, thank you for the question. First of all, I think it is worth making it clear that the premise in the question is partly a bit wrong, because as I am informed, there are no plans for a closing time of 24 minutes per hour. hours in the respective crossing. Historically, Thistedvej has had 6-8 passing trains per hour. This corresponds to a closing time of 8-10 minutes every hour. The volume of trains and the closing time in the override have been lower than usual in recent years. This is because DSB, for commercial reasons already at Aalborg Station, has turned regional traffic over at Lindholm as before. As a result, train traffic has been reduced during the crossing. The new runway for Aalborg Airport is expected to be completed by the end of 2020, and in this respect DSB will go back to turning their trains north of Limfjorden and no longer at Lindholm, but at Aalborg Airport. It is therefore planned to return to the traffic conditions which have been the norm for many years on this route, i.e. eight trains per hour or the equivalent of up to 10 minutes of closing time during the crossing at Thistedvej. Since rail traffic is not expected to change and moreover Thistedvej is a municipal road, I do not think I can comment further on the traffic situation there, but I am glad that it is not possible for it to be 24 minutes per hour. I have also heard that point of view in other contexts, I should just like to say, on the 24 minutes per hour, but that is not what we are looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160102-2	Well, that's a happy answer. It comes as a bit of a surprise to me, because I can at least say that in the North Jutland press and that's TV Nord's rendering, it is stated that the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority, as the Minister knows, has estimated that the doubling of trains will mean that thistedvej will be closed to car traffic for 24 minutes every hour during the daytime. I have to ask if what the Transport, Construction and Housing Board says is not correct. In this context, I think that, if that is correct, and I am looking forward to it being clarified, it is essential to point out that, as I have said, 13 000 cars are driving on this road every day. It is one of the most important approaches in the Nørresundby area. If you're going out of Aalborg, it's that way, and if you're going to Aabybro, Blokhus, Løkken, Fjerritslev, Thisted etc. etc., it's that way. And I have to say that if this were to stand up to believers, i.e. what the Transport, Building and Housing Board apparently says, namely that the booms are down 24 minutes every hour, it will be a completely chaotic traffic situation in Nørresundby. I understand that the Minister has some other figures than those provided to the press by the Transport, Building and Housing Board, but if the Minister's figures do not last, if it really does happen, that one will hold in front of these booms for up to 24 minutes every hour, what will the Minister do if necessary? I can only see a solution to that problem, and it is an underpass to the cars, a viaduct or something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160251	As I said, the expectation is that, from the outset, there will be eight trains per hour. It has been possible to settle in the past within these 10 minutes of closing time. Of course, it is also expected that it will be possible to do so in the future, i.e. 10 minutes per hour. But it is not actually certain that the line should be operated by eight trains, I would say. I have written to Region Nordjylland to coordinate the operation of Aalborg Airport and await the feedback from the Region Nordjylland at the time. In fact, it is possible that consideration will be given to the possibility of having a less intensive train service by Aalborg Airport with regional trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160333	So I ask specifically: how many minutes every hour does the Minister expect traffic to be stopped at Thistedvej because of the new train times?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160346	So, as I said, provided that the North Jutland Region does not choose to have a reduced number of train departures, it will be these eight trains per hour, and that will give a closing time of 10 minutes. If it is the case that the North Jutland Region had to decide to reduce the number of train departures, then it will be a shorter time than that. To that must of course be said that one can never guard against a single situation where there may be a delay or something else • a boom that does not go up on time, and that sort of thing • but on the basis of that it is the 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160429	I think that is a quite reassuring answer, let me say it, and I certainly hope it will hold. However, the Minister may owe an explanation as to how it might be that the Minister's own administration is going out with a message that in future it will be 24 minutes every hour. It is clear that it makes it run cold down the back of every North Jutland that goes that way around. That was one thing. The other thing is, if these numbers don't hold up, and I have a strange feeling that they don't... I've been living there in all modesty for 30 years, right next to the Minister, is he willing to look at another solution for traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160503	So, I'm basing my answer on a note from Banedanmark which has previously prepared this note in order to answer a press call from TV2 Nord where you refute this claim for the 24-minute closing time. We should be happy to make the note available to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160526	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. S 777, which is also addressed to the Minister for Transport, but put forward by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160539	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160542	I'm gonna read the question. It is this: does the Minister agree that forward-looking investment in the road network is in line with the transition to green transport on the premise that future passenger cars, buses and lorries are running on green propellants?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160604	First of all, thank you for the question. The government and now also a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament have set the ambitious goal that Denmark's total greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 70%. in 2030. In this context, let me acknowledge the support of the Left for the ambitious objective. In order to achieve that objective, it is essential that the transport sector also contributes. Traffic accounts for most of the transport sector's emissions, which is why it is a bottom-up task for the government to get more green cars on the roads and, as I know, the questioner has also indicated that more green trucks, for example. When we invest in our infrastructure, we invest not only for the next 10 years, but from a very long-term perspective. I therefore agree with the questioner that investment in the road network, which helps to secure a modern and well-developed infrastructure for the green car park of the future, can go hand in hand with the ambitions for the green transition of the transport sector. That is why, of course, investment in the road network will also be among the priorities we will be discussing together in the forthcoming negotiations on a new and broad infrastructure plan. However, it is also important for me to emphasise that we obviously need an infrastructure agreement that not only focuses on roads but also focuses on public transport and cycling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160736	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160737	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am actually pleased that the Minister confirms that roads are also green when what is going to run on them is green, although asphalt is usually black. When I ask the question on behalf of the Left, it is, of course, because in the debate on transport infrastructure there is often the false assertion that roads are coal-black and that only rails are green, it is a widespread view of certain political parties and organisations. In addition, there is an erroneous similarity between rail and public transport. The truth is that the cars, buses and trucks of the future will run on green propellants such as green electricity, hydrogen, biogas or electrofuel made on wind power. And the truth is that half of the public transport, namely the buses, actually runs on asphalt. Then I have also noted that the Social Democratic Party is pleased with road investment, and that is also what the Minister is suggesting here. At least we saw this in connection with the 2019 parliamentary elections, where many Social Democrats argued well for good road projects; we saw it when we made the blue traffic agreement in March last year, when the Social Democrats also expressed some enthusiasm for it; and we saw it when the Social Democratic Party in January last year came up with their traffic issues, where roads were also an important element. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees that the claim that roads are black and bad for the climate is deeply manipulative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160913	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311160914	It is true that a very large part of the CO2 2 so it can be said that a large part of CO2 would have been able to point out in the past that a larger part of CO2 because of the fact that diesel locomotives have been used to a greater extent in the past than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161020	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161021	I am also pleased with that answer, because the truth is that it is not a either-or, it is both-and-so, and that is what we need to achieve. But there are also those who are trying to conjure up a false picture that we have spent all the money on the roads in recent years. That is why, through the Transport Committee, I have asked the Minister how many government crowns we actually spent in the period 2009-2019 on the construction and operation of the railway, and the Minister has indeed replied to me that 124 billion have actually been spent. kr. on the railroad. Can the Minister confirm that this means that we have spent the vast majority of the transport appropriations on the railways and not on the roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161105	I don't know the exact numbers in my head, but I don't want to question Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's inventory here. It must also be said that the railways have received a much needed and necessary boost with the investments that have been made in the Folketing, because the railways have been in need, not least with the three major projects we are currently undertaking, that is to say a comprehensive electrification of the railway, a new signalling system and the fact that we are getting new modern trains, which are electric. This is absolutely essential if we are to achieve the green transition, on the one hand, and a railway that can deliver what the citizens expect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161148	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161148-2	We are beginning to talk closer and closer to each other, and we will meet very early tomorrow to talk about the conversion of heavy transport to green transport. Now we have established that roads are not black, but really green. And we have made it clear that at least half of public transport is actually on roads; so I would like to ask: does the Minister see anything against the fact that the negotiations on transport investments up to 2030 can actually be run in parallel with the climate negotiations? The second question is this: does the Minister agree that we need to ensure a better balance between the use of money on the road and the way so that the many road hanging parties that have arisen across the country can be picked up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161229	At any rate, there is no doubt that we need to have a clear picture of what it is for traffic running on the roads of the future, so that we can make a concrete calculation of what effect it will have if we build new roads and expand existing roads. So there is at least the link between the negotiations on a climate action plan and infrastructure that we need to have a basis for calculation in relation to what expectations are for vehicles of the future. That is why I am most inclined to conclude the climate action plan negotiations first and then dive into the discussion on infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161309	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161318	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161320	Thank you. Will the Minister please state what considerations the Minister is making to strengthen public transport across the Danish-German border?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161331	First of all, I would like to say that it is important that the framework for public bus transport across the Danish-German border is good. And I think they are, in that South traffic is allowed to operate the border region and the fact that German buses are currently driving to Denmark. The fact that border controls can sometimes cause delays for bus traffic is inevitable, because of course buses are taken in the random checks. Anything else would open up an obvious possibility of circumventing border controls. Decisions on border controls are not a matter of mine, and therefore I cannot answer questions about it. As far as the proposal is concerned, which is contained in the author's written explanation of the question of establishing a bus line from Wassersleben to Kruså, it is not quite clear to me exactly what is in mind. Possibly a priority bus lane is envisaged in the context of border controls so that buses can bypass any car queues at the border. It is not my impression that the problem of delays at the border is so great that it justifies costly measures. And I also understand that South traffic, which has an operator crossing the border, has not been contacted by their operator running cross-border traffic in relation to a problem in this respect. With regard to the proposal, which is also contained in the questioner's clarification of the question, that is, with regard to the proposal to establish double-tracks between Tinglev and Padborg, I have answered this several times in the past, but of course I would like to repeat that, according to Banedanmark, capacity is sufficient for the time being, but I would also like to ensure that there is a basis for decision in relation to a future infrastructure debate in relation to that part of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161526	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161527	Thank you. The specific question is, of course, that Linie 1 from Flensburg to Kruså has some very important challenges in that they very often have to wait for border controls, and that therefore presents some quite significant challenges that make one consider whether Line 1 should close. That is why I also have to say that this does not seem to be an area on which the Minister has intended to act immediately, even though the bus is one of the few collective means of transport in the border area and therefore now seems to be closing. With over 13,000 Danes and Germans commuting across the border every day, this means that it will only lead to more congestion on the roads and on the track link between Denmark and Germany. I would therefore like to hear what the government will do in concrete terms to strengthen public transport in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161616	First of all, I have to repeat that the operator of South traffic has not raised any objections or raised any problems with regard to the bus they are crossing the border. What is the reason for this, I cannot answer, but at least there should be no problems in this respect. When it comes to strengthening traffic in the border area, there are a number of things that can be done that I cannot mention in the time available, but that is one of them. strengthened cooperation with Schleswig-Holstein.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161651	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161652	Thank you. The challenge lies also in the transport that is from Germany to Denmark, because a very large proportion of the commuters who come are actually from Germany, and that is the transport that, among other things, is. That's the problem. So I understand that the Minister will not do anything to strengthen let alone preserve the bus across the border, even if the government is doing much to do much for the environment. So the railway between Flensburg and Padborg becomes the only collective link between Denmark and Germany in this area. I would therefore like to ask: when does the Minister plan to launch the double track between Tinglev and Padborg so that we can get the frequency of trains up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161726	Well, the questioner is standing here making things up out of thin air, that's what it sounds like. There's a bus. South traffic runs a bus; their operator has not been able to see any challenges. Then we are currently working with the Schleswig-Holstein Government, among others. on increasing the possibility of driving, for example, battery trains across the Danish-German border. We have previously issued a press release on this, and I assume the questioner is aware of this. In addition, we are currently examining whether the operation of trains can be strengthened in the Danish-German border country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161803	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161804	Thank you. I understand that the Minister and I have some different information, so I can almost also imagine that the Minister will do nothing to save line 1 from Flensburg to Kruså, which seems to close as a result of this border control, it seems to me to be hopeless border controls. I understand that the Minister is simply saying that the transport, the bus traffic will continue there are no obstacles and there are no problems in this regard. If that is the case, it will only be nice to be able to walk from here and say thank you very much. There are no problems; we will continue, and we may even develop our public transport in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161840	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161841	As I said, there are two players running. South traffic runs from Denmark to Flensburg. They have not experienced any problems. And then the German Active Bus drives across the border to Kruså the other way. I can relate to what Danish players have had of challenges, and as I said, there have been no complications in relation to it, and therefore I also assume that South traffic will continue to operate their route. In addition, as I said, we are seeking to strengthen cross-border traffic, among other things. in cooperation with the Schleswig-Holstein Government. It is a very good and close cooperation that we have there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161921	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Nils Sjøberg, and thank you to the Minister for Transport. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311161934	Will the Minister provide the background for not inviting free primary and post-secondary schools to this year's Sorø meeting on inclusion when barely 20 per cent. of Danish children attend a free primary school, while more than half of the 10th grade pupils attend secondary school, including whether the Minister believes that the inclusion task is best solved by excluding the free primary schools and the post-schools from contributing to the overall discussion and solution in the field of inclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162011	Somehow it is indicated in the question that if the Danish Free School Association and the Danish Private Schools Association do not participate in all meetings held by the Minister, they will be excluded, and I therefore think that we can deal with that paragraph first. I would say that I have a very good and indeed ongoing dialogue with the free and private schools, but just as they do not participate in all the meetings, it is also the case that, for example, I have to say that I have a very good dialogue with the private schools. The Danish Teacher's Association and the School Leader's Association also do not participate in all the meetings where free and private schools participate. Sometimes they're in a meeting with each other, sometimes it's separate from each other. I want to say this just so we have a fair overview that the Ministry of Children and Education together with KL, Denmark's Private Schools, the Danish Free School Association and the Association of Kristne Free Schools have just produced a guidance and inspirational material in collaboration with each other on how best to collaborate with free and private schools and municipal administrations. In fact, it focuses primarily on the cooperation between municipalities on the one hand and private and free schools on precisely vulnerable children and young people on the other. Then, as a minister, I had a meeting with Denmark's Private Schools, Free Schools and the Afterschool Association on 3 July 2019, just as on 24 September 2019 I attended the Board of Directors of the Fødskolen association and on 27 January I took part in a joint meeting with Denmark's Private Schools and Dansk Friskoleforening, the German Minority Schools and the Association of Christian Free Schools. At the meetings the Danish Teachers' Association did not participate, nor did the School Leader's Association participate, nor did KL participate, nor did the disabled organisations participate. That is to say, I meet with different people across the board who, in different ways, care for one, the other and the third of our school world; it pays for itself. Can it be relevant at intervals to bring all parties together? It can in its nature, and when the Sorø meeting looked like it did this time, it was because I had chosen to bring a very large number of primary school teachers and a very large number of educators in relation to what normally attends at Sorø meetings. In other words, I provided an extraordinary amount of room for school teachers and educators to come on board. It is simply after I have been around schools all over the country, where I have been able to hear that there was a very large discrepancy between what was said by those who worked on the floor and what was perceived at leadership level, and not least at management level and political level. That's why I made a lot of room available for both parents of children with disabilities and also teachers and educators to attend this year's Sorømødet and when you make room for some, there are others who are not fit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162239	Thank you. Then we'll make room for mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162240	Thank you. When I ask the question, it is simply because I am not just standing in the Chamber. I am also listening to what is happening out there, and I am also sure that the Minister will do so; so that is not at all that. But what I hear is that if you are now a free primary school, you can sometimes feel a little trampled on your toes by the Minister by not being invited to attend, and I would just say that. By the way, I would also like to praise the theme of inclusion and say that it is a very important subject, and I am pleased that we agree on that. I remember from my mayor's time that it was one of the most important things to work with, so I can just recommend that you go ahead with that. But my second question is: when inclusion is now so important for all children, regardless of the name of the school, it may be wondering why the minister failed to include all relevant schools for this year's Sorø meeting. So will the Minister not tell us whether it is because she believes inclusion is less important for free primary schools and post-schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162401	I believe that these are three completely different tasks. If you're in post-school, it's one kind of assignment, if you're in free school, it's another kind of assignment, and if you're in primary school, it's a third kind of assignment. Everyone has the task; it is just in three different ways, and therefore I think it is appropriate to meet with one party, the other party and the third party. For example, I think it would have been strange on the part that was about making a piece of paper on the cooperation between free and private schools and municipalities, to invite the Danish Teachers' Association and the School Leader Association in, because in this context I thought it might be more relevant to listen to free schools and private schools. Somehow it is going to sound like if you are not invited to all meetings, it means that you never attend meetings that are about this, and I just don't think that makes any sense. We had chosen that the theme of this year's Sorø meeting, which, moreover, was shaved down in time, was inclusion in the primary school, and in this respect I thought it was relevant that we took a large number of teachers and a large number of educators and, incidentally, disability organisations on board. This meant that there were some others who were less room for whose seats were taken, but as I sketched out, I have met with free and private schools and have, moreover, prepared a material on exactly vulnerable children and young people in free and private schools. Of course it is an important task.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162513	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162514	It is not because I do not understand the Minister's answer, but I have to say that when we talk to the free primary schools and the post-schools, they have exactly the same challenges as the primary school has in terms of inclusion. I do not quite understand why we could not just include, if I may say so, primary and secondary schools at the Sorø meeting when they have the same problems. What is the idea of excluding them from the Sorø meeting this year when they actually have the same problem of inclusion that all the primary schools have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162559	And I'm gonna let the minister answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162600	I guess we agree that just because your own party chairman and my own party chairman aren't attending the meeting we're in right now, none of them are excluded. They are simply not involved because they do something else, and at other times they participate because it is relevant to be here, and then we are all together. I have not excluded anything or excluded anyone from a debate on inclusion. For example, I have. also attended the Board of Directors' meeting of the Afterschool Association. That means I've met with their entire board of directors. The Danish Association of Teachers did not participate, and the disabled organisations did not participate, and there was plenty of opportunity to discuss various problems around the post-schools. So was it an exclusion of the others? No, I do not think so, and that is why I actually think that the premise for the question is a little odd, because it is not an exclusion, after all, just because we are not all attending all the meetings. So if it were a question of me not wanting to discuss these issues with different associations, then I would think there was a problem and nothing could be further from me. I have been a social rapporteur for many years, and I am extremely concerned that we should resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162701	It's 1⁄2 minutes to answer in the second round, I just have to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162705	I am grateful for the thorough answer, but I would just like to say that one might feel excluded. The last of my questions must then be whether the Minister has thought about these things. Next year, there's a Sorø meeting. Is the Minister going to invite the free primary and post-school schools to the meeting next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162727	Only if applicable. In other words, the list of participants is composed on the basis of what it is on. So I don't want to get involved in that, just as I don't want to be determined whether the disability organisations or the Danish Teachers' Association or anyone else are invited to next year's Sorø meeting. I have not yet decided what the theme is, and the thing about just having some kind of list and then doing what you usually do, I don't give much too much. I think we should be there, and we should give room to teachers and educators. There has been too little room for these in the years that have passed. I think it is important that we get involved with those who are actually working on things on a daily basis, rather than just giving room to the heads of organisations to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162805	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left. Then we move on to the Minister for Education and Research, and there is the questioner, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162812	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162820	Thank you. What action plans does the Minister intend to launch to open up the possibilities of the National robotic strategy? Good training, research and innovation policy framework for robotics in Denmark from February 2020, and when does the Minister intend to implement the action plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311162842	I would like to thank Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti for the great commitment that has contributed enormously to the fact that we now have a new national robotic strategy that focuses on a number of areas where education, research and innovation should contribute to creating a good framework for the development and use of robotic technologies in Denmark. With the strategy, we have launched several concrete initiatives. It is the Government's ambition that research should support the green transition. That is why, with the broad political agreement on the allocation of the research reserve, we have lifted public investment in green research and set aside 1.5 billion. kr. in 2020. This includes, among other things: robotic and drone technology research. In addition, we have prioritised approx. 160 million kr. for research into new technological possibilities, which can also go to robotic and drone technology projects. Furthermore, we have just published a notice of new performance contract funds for approved technological services for the period 2021-2024. Here it is a positive assessment criterion that applications support strategic agendas such as: the national robotic strategy. In the space sector, a public-private partnership for global space exploration was established in January. Among other things, it has to be done. work to bridge the gap between Danish interests and competences in robotics and space travel. In adult, continuing training, we are examining the need for new initiatives to support the development of skills and the conversion of employees in companies using robotics. Cooperation between research and industry is important to create development and innovation in our companies, not least in the field of robotics, where knowledge collaboration has been one of the keys to creating a leading robotic industry. I believe that we can improve the framework for cooperation between universities and professions, and I will look at this with the Minister for Industry. It will also benefit the robotic area. Finally, I would like to say that, in general, I have received positive reactions from the players in the field of robotics. My impression is that they are pleased that we have had a comprehensive national strategy that sets the direction for action. So thank you once again for the great contribution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163053	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163054	Thank you for the answer, which unfortunately did not make me so terribly much wiser. Because now that we see the national robotic strategy, I know very well that in the autumn we implemented the research reserve and allocated a lot of funds that could potentially benefit some of these areas, and that there are various kinds of actions that could also be sought in this context. But what I think is the challenge is that we have a strategy here that very, very well describes all the possibilities that are, all the potentials that are, but I cannot find anywhere in it where there are some concrete measures that describe what you really want. I am surprised, for example, that it is not possible to do so. in the area of welfare, says that there is potential and that we need to develop the welfare area and the use of robotics in, for example. the context. There is nothing about how to give concrete support. In agriculture there are really great perspectives in using robots and drones much more. I have also heard the Minister say so in several contexts. Why is there no plan for how we will do it; how we will ensure that we go that way? So that is really what I am calling for with my question here. That is: where is the action plan? Is it the case that we have to say that now, quite by chance, what is going to happen is going to happen because some people have to seek it? Isn't it the case that the government had to have a vision, a plan for what it is we're going to get out of this and where we're going? We had a meeting of the Committee yesterday with the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council. They had one overall advice for us and for the Minister and for all of us in here, namely that we are creating an overall strategy that sets a goal that we are pursuing. In their terminology, for example, it was when it was decided to put a man on the moon. It started a whole lot. If we decided here that we would use robots and drones, for example. in agriculture, e.g. in welfare technology, and so massively went for it, then something happened. Where's that action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163258	The parallel to putting a man on the moon could also be that we should be in line with the green transition, and below we could say that robots and drones play a very crucial role in some of the contexts, for example. in agriculture, on which both the rapporteur and I have had and will continue to focus. I believe this is a tool for achieving the political objectives. We need that tool in all the contexts where it makes sense at all. It is whether we are talking about approved technological services to our companies or whether we are talking about breaking down the knowledge that lies in this and that we need to get to the companies in order to create more business adventures, such as what we are doing here. Both visited Funen recently when we launched the strategy. But this is also true in relation to the very big blade when we make the climate action plans, because then, of course, this has to be thought about. I see it as a tool for achieving political objectives rather than an end in itself, but that is also where I think it will be very strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163353	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163354	What is lacking, after all, is to say what we are going to do in concrete terms, because we could easily take the green transition and say that that is what it is all about; but where is it actually done in relation to the drones? When I take it up, it is also because one of the examples we have recently seen was the robot that can sterilize operating rooms and other things in a hospital and which is now being bought on a huge scale in China. They have a really, really hard time getting them tested in the Danish hospitals because there was no strategy that said that we will and that we want this in. That's when I miss a government saying we want this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163430	That is also a very good point: we need to create a framework that makes sense. We also have ongoing discussions about working on it and getting better at it. I think we can. I think that, based on the huge business adventures that flourish in Denmark in this field, we can be even better at creating a proper framework. However, in relation to what the honourable Member referred to earlier, namely to put an overall strategic direction of our counterpart to the moon landing, the government has stated very clearly that there is the green transition. At the same time, we have also said very clearly that robots and drones play an important role, and I believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163510	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163512	Thank you. If you say that robots and drones have to play a role, how do we get them to do it? Because I still lack such a strategy, a plan, an action plan that says what we are doing. When is something going on? The industry is doing very well now, and a lot of things are happening, but if we don't push, and if we don't make sure we're ahead, we're gonna lose that race. We have some options, and if we do not actively go in and use them, they will disappear for us. So when do we get the concrete action plan for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163552-2	I believe more in thinking it into the contexts we have, for example. in the climate action plans that are coming, for example. when we see the supply of education and when we look at our distribution of research funds. There we have to think about it and, of course, we also have to have some basic framework conditions so that those who are already in a hurry and those who want to start up will have the opportunity to do so on Danish soil. Because it's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163616	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party and to the Minister for Education and Research. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163631	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the government's decision that, for foreign policy reasons, no forced broadcasts of rejected asylum seekers to the Damascus region of Syria are being carried out so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163644	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the Refugee Board now considers that conditions have improved so much in Damascus. That's good news. We also have the clear position in the government that refugees should, as a starting point, return home when conditions in the country allow. This applies to everyone, including Syrian citizens. As far as forced repatriation is concerned, there are now very special circumstances with regard to Syria. We have decided that, for foreign policy reasons, no forced repatriations are being carried out to Syria so far. The resolution is based on an analysis and a political line that we share with our closest allies in Europe, among others. Germany, France and Great Britain and the United States. The EU has a policy of maintaining pressure on the Assad regime through, among other things: targeted sanctions, and Denmark and our allies maintain that actions that can be interpreted as normalising relations with the Assad regime should be renounced. The pressure exerted by the United States and the European Union on the regime must be maintained in order to force the regime into political compromises. Steps that are perceived as normalisation will ease the pressure and make the regime even less willing to negotiate in order to reach a political solution to the conflict. And Danish only in respect of forced broadcasts here and now can be interpreted as a legitimation of Assad. The Syrian regime is largely politically isolated today. Their closest allies are Iran and Russia. Conversely, European capitals and Washington continue to distance themselves from the regime because a politically negotiated solution is and remains the only viable solution to the conflict. We are, of course, in dialogue with our close allies, and we are working decisively on the basis of a dialogue with our allies to create as soon as possible opportunities for forced broadcasts to Syria. However, it is important for me to stress that the resolution does not alter the government's position that foreigners should, as a starting point, return home when conditions in the country allow. And that also applies to Syrians.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163842	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311163843	Thank you. The Minister also came to the conclusion that in December 2019 the Refugee Board assessed that the security situation in the region around the Syrian capital Damascus had now improved so much that an asylum seeker from that part of the war-torn country could no longer automatically obtain asylum. So I just have to ask something: now that the government is making a different decision, what can we use the Refugee Board for? I find it strange that the Refugee Board's position is that people should be able to return, but that is not what the government is doing. I cannot reconcile that, and I think we should have that discussion later, in other words about the importance of the Refugee Board. Three Syrians have been denied asylum and have to leave Denmark. They're not supposed to be here. They have to leave Denmark. However, the government will not forcefully reject asylum seekers to the area as they do not like the Bashar al-Assad regime in Damascus. The rejected asylum seekers can then stay in Denmark. That is not satisfactory, far from satisfactory. And I must admit that the attitude towards Syria is astonishing. No one can be in any doubt that it is a nasty regime and that we should have the attitude that the government is also expressing, namely that it is a regime that we cannot accept at all. However, Denmark cooperates with a great many other countries that have regimes and governments that we do not like, such as Saudi Arabia or Iran, which, in the same way as Syria, are sanctioned in many ways by the international community. However, Denmark works well with the regime and has an embassy in Tehran, just as they have an embassy here. I find it hard to tell the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164025	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164026	I would like to start by saying that there are currently no Syrians in charge of leaving either in any of the current cases dealt with in the Refugee Board. Once we have taken this decision, it is not about us thinking that the Assad regime is bad and a criminal regime, because, as the author says, there are other countries there. It is about the existence of a special foreign policy situation in which we need a political solution to a conflict that has lasted for many years in exactly Syria, and there we stand with our European and American allies, and we would very much not want to jump across the fence and be on the same side as Iran and Russia, which recognise the Assad regime and normalise diplomatic relations with that country. We don't want to. We have to stand with our Western allies. This means, in this particular case, that unfortunately we cannot repatriate to Syria. That does not change the fact that if someone changes their residence permit, they have to leave voluntarily. We'd like to help them find travel documents and things like that, but we don't want to help normalize our relationship with Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164128	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164129	Yes, but it is the case that at least three Syrians have been denied asylum and have to leave Denmark. What I hear the Minister say is that more people can come here, get refused, but then they will not be sent home, and that is what I am very, very puzzled about, because unfortunately, as it seems, Assad will be in power for many years to come. It does not look as if there is any possibility of having him removed, although it would probably be very, very good. I just have to ask the Minister about that, for example. Iran, which we are also talking about in this context, and which has been a country to which the forced expulsion of rejected asylum seekers has also been impossible: will the government also refrain from forcefully sending Iran on the grounds that it does not like the regime in Iran? Because we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164216	We always have broadcasts, even to countries that have regimes that we do not like, and every single person who will succeed in sending home to Iran is a huge victory. So the reason why we do not want to be forced to return to Syria now is not that it is a criminal regime. This is because we then go against all our Western allies in Denmark against putting pressure on the regime in Syria, and we do not want to do so. There are very few countries in the world that have a normalised relationship with the regime in Syria, and these are not countries that we usually compare with foreign policy. So I would really like to appeal to us in dialogue with our Western allies to try to do what we can to create a situation where we can force ourselves to do, but that Denmark does not go alone on this issue. We are sticking to this together with the United States and the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164304	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164306	Would the Minister not agree with me that more Syrians can now come, and so does Denmark, which is refused asylum ■ so, the Refugee Board says that they should not be granted asylum ■ but that they cannot be sent home? It is, of course, a completely impossible situation to stand in, and that is very, very surprising, I have to say, that the government has that position. In any case, I think that at a later stage we should have a discussion on what we can actually do with the Refugee Board. After all, these are two contradictory positions, regardless of what the Minister is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164340	The specific persons who have been refused asylum in the Refugee Board have a different basis for residence in Denmark in the specific cases, which is why they are not in an exit position. However, the questioner is right to say that we can end up in a situation where people are refused asylum or refused an extension of their residence base, where we withdraw their residence base and say that they must go to Syria and, if they do not want to do so voluntarily, we can say that they must stay at an exit centre and they can have a residence and reporting obligation. They are not granted a residence permit in Denmark. It is true, however, that we will not help to go alone and normalise relations with the regime in Damascus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164416	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and we are holding on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164427	Thank you. Does the Minister think that in these weeks, when we can very well face a new refugee situation as in 2015, it is timely care to consider again inviting quota refugees to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164443	Thank you for the question. The previous government decided in 2016 to push the remaining quota for quota refugees into later years, and the decision was to be seen in the light of the many asylum seekers that Denmark had received in previous years. The following year the Folketing adopted a new quota system, and with the new system it is up to the minister in office at all times to determine the number of quota refugees to be re-inhabited each year in Denmark. The decision is made on the basis of an overall balance between the social and economic capacity of society, as stated in the preparatory work. In this context, it has, among other things, been able to do so. the importance of how many foreigners have come to Denmark in recent years and how the foreigners who are already in Denmark are integrated. The decision on the number of quota refugees to be re-inhabited in Denmark is generally taken in the middle of the year, but this may give rise to the number of entry. We have not yet taken a decision on whether to receive quota refugees by 2020 and, if so, on how many, but when that decision is to be taken, we will look at what the influx into the country looks like. We will also look at how the foreigners who are already in the country are actually doing, because there must be the right balance between the number of newly arrived refugees that Denmark receives and the ability of the municipalities to integrate them. If that is not the case, it will of course be important. We will also look at how the situation with the many refugees on the border between Turkey and Greece has developed, and if we see a massive increase in the influx towards Denmark, it is clear that it will also have to be included in the decision on whether Denmark should receive quota refugees by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164614	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164615	Thank you for your answer. We in the Danish People's Party would recommend that we should not receive any quota refugees in advance as long as we do not have an asylum stop at the border where we simply say that no one will enter and get asylum in Denmark at all. In this situation, one might perhaps consider opening up quota refugees in such a way that they say that the quota refugees they want to take must be quota refugees, who are very close culturally to Danish culture. It could, for example, be done. be Christian families. In the current situation, we in the Danish People's Party consider it totally irresponsible not to set foot, and just to deposit money in the Finance Act, that is. to be willing to take quota refugees in this situation is totally, totally irresponsible. After all, the Socialists have come to the polls for a strict policy on foreigners. The Socialists have tried to take over very large parts of the Danish People's Party's immigration policy, but when it comes to the reality that you sit on government power, you just don't do what you have to do, and that would be to say in this case: we are not taking a single quota refugee until an asylum stop has been introduced in Denmark. For the Minister is just as well aware as I am that Denmark is neither economically nor culturally able to cope with more refugees coming from culturally alien areas. There we are simply filled up and more than that. What we need to concentrate on is primarily repatriations, and there we have just heard from my colleague, Pia Kjærsgaard, in the previous reply, that the Minister will not be hard-hearted about the return of refugees. In short, the situation today is not acceptable for quota refugees, and I would just like to ask the Minister to send a signal that you do not want to, instead of saying that it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164818-2	I would like to start by saying that the social democracy before the elections was quite clear about the fact that we believe that quota refugees are part of the solution in the asylum system of the future, and that we were also open in the election campaign to see the possibility that Denmark would again enter the international distribution of quota refugees through the UN. It is true that money has been allocated to the Finance Act to take a number of quota refugees by 2020, but we have not decided whether or not to take any. I see it that way myself... well, now run out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164853	But there will be a next opportunity. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164854	It is irresponsible right now to say yes to quota refugees and to be open to quota refugees. It is simply irresponsible because there is no room. There's no way. Denmark has taken sufficient action over the last few years and the borders have not been closed sufficiently. But as soon as you want to take them, the Minister will not make sure that, for example, you do not. only take Christians?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311164920-2	What I did not manage to say before, but as I will try to say now and which is somewhat related to the question that has been asked, is that I think we need to see quota refugees as one of the instruments needed to strengthen international cooperation in tackling migration. It should not be in itself, because we think it is more humanistic, because for the money we spend on quota refugees here, we can help even more people in the big world, but it can be a tool for example. to help people who, although they are actually under the protection of the UNHCR, are still persecuted, for example. because they are a religious minority in a large refugee camp or a sexual minority in a large refugee camp. It may also be in order to strengthen diplomatic relations with the governments of other countries with a view to this being what we in the government hope to be able to bring us into a position where we can have asylum applications processed outside the country's borders. There, I think, quota refugees can be an instrument that we can use in asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165012	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165013	But in that case it will only be necessary to use this at the moment when the people who come from a culture where integration into Denmark is hopeless. In this situation, it may perhaps make sense to start taking quota refugees if we are to ensure that the country is only opened up to quota refugees from cultures similar to us and give priority, for example. Christians.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165044	This could quickly turn into a chicken or egg discussion, but I think that if we have an ambition on the Danish side, and this is what the government has to do, to strengthen cooperation with countries outside Europe to deal with migratory flows, and we have this ambition to have dealt with asylum applications outside the borders of Europe, then we also need to show, as a European country far northwards, that we are not running out of responsibility. We just want control over the influx to Europe, and one way to show it quite concretely and practically is to tell a country that we want to relieve the burden, for example. specially vulnerable quota beneficiaries it could be women and children from their refugee camps. We're not running away from responsibility. We just think it should be people who are being re-inhabited through the UN, not people who have come here by means of human smugglers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165129	Thank you to the Minister. We will proceed straight to the next question. It is also addressed by Mrs Krarup to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165141	Does the Minister generally believe that it is a good idea for more refugees, including quota refugees, to come to Denmark instead of helping in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165152	The short answer is no. Because I really don't think so. But according to the Rules of Procedure, I have a few minutes' speaking time, and I would like to take this opportunity to say a few more words about why we believe that the current asylum system has failed: because it forces refugees into a dangerous journey towards Europe, on which an industry of traffickers earns billions. At the same time, we are spending huge resources on migrants who have paid large sums of money for these traffickers, but actually have no right to protection. And even if they are refused asylum, we also have great difficulties in sending many of them back to their home countries. They end up risking their lives over the Mediterranean and along migration routes just to end up in a vulnerable life without a future in Europe. And it's not durable. We want to pursue a foreign policy in which we can manage more ourselves, how many foreigners are coming to Denmark. The key word is control and our main focus should be to ensure adequate assistance for those refugees and displaced persons who are close to the conflicts. So when we send funds to the neighbourhood, we are also able to help more and better. As part of this policy, the government also supports controlled resettlement through the UN. In an optimal situation, this would be the only way for refugees to be re-inhabited in Denmark and Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165302	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165303	Thank you. All reasonableness says that it is better to help people, near where the conflicts and problems are, because you can get more money in those areas and because those areas are more like the places from which the refugees themselves come. In other words, getting Syrian refugees to Denmark has proved to be very, very problematic because they come with a completely different culture. So it will be much better and you will be able to help many, many more people to help in the neighborhoods. And that is one of the reasons why we believe that it is rational to close the borders of asylum seekers, so simply make an asylum stop in Denmark, but at the same time use more resources in the neighbourhood. And this asylum freeze, which is therefore part of the strategic shift that the government should make if it really wants to pursue a strict immigration policy, is also linked to the fact that there is this enormous pressure from migration not only from conflict areas but also from poor areas. Now I myself have just been on a study trip to Africa, where I met several immigrants, and it is absolutely shocking to see how people are going, not really from deep poverty, but precisely from a place where they have come out of deep poverty and have discovered that there is a world outside that they would rather be part of, and where they risk their lives to come over to us. And there I think it is simply immoral that we send the signal that it is possible to enter our countries in this way, in this criminal way. Because if you knew beforehand that there was an asylum stop in Denmark and hopefully other European countries too, you would not go on that trip. So we should rather help where the problems are, rather than being open to spontaneous asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165514	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165515	Whether we have an asylum stop or not, our challenge will be that if we are to send people back across the Mediterranean, someone will have to accept them. And that is why we have proposed that if people stand on European soil and say asylum, we should deal with that asylum application outside Europe. That is our ambition, because that would be the practical way to put a plug in the hole and prevent the industry of traffickers. I would also like to say that the movement from an asylum system based on spontaneous asylum applications and then to a system which is about helping more and more people in the neighbourhood, we are in the middle of, in other words, the restructuring of asylum policy. In 2019 there were record low asylum rates, so far it seems that by 2020 they are at least as low, actually slightly lower. And for every asylum seeker who does not apply for asylum in Denmark, we are able to help even more in the neighbourhood. For part of the money we spend on processing asylum applications in Denmark actually goes away from development money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165612	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165613	These are fine words that are being said about having to deal with asylum outside Europe. We have heard that for a very, very long time from the government. But nothing is happening at all. It is not possible to establish it. So at the same time as they say that you have all these birds on the roof with a fine asylum system where people need to be able to search outside Europe, you do not do anything. And at the same time, people are pouring in. It is true that fewer people are pouring in, but it is for other reasons; it is not because the government has done something sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165642	There's less coming in. My best guess is that 2020 may well be that year for many, many years in the history of Denmark, where we succeed with two things: record few asylum seekers and record a lot of help to record many people close to the conflicts. That is what we would like to see in the direction of. If we are to resolve the root of the problem, it is true that we need to move asylum applications outside Europe and have a reception centre set up. I don't think it's right to say that nothing happens. We are working hard on this, because that is what can solve the problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165717	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165718	It's no use for horsemother to die of hunger while the grass grows. So it is no use looking for an impossible solution and then postponing the solution to the current problems by saying that there will be a good solution the day after tomorrow or next year. So this search for asylum outside Europe is pretty hopeless. After all, the reason why there are not so many asylum seekers now is not government policy. It's a coincidence, or it's a very different attitude towards migrants, for example. Algeria, where I have just been and where they simply stop them completely. After all, we will see greater and greater pressure from both Africa and the Middle East in the future, and in that situation the government will have no instruments to stop an influx.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165813	In fact, I agree with the questioner that if you have a long-term plan, you should not give up taking short-term initiatives. That is also why we have just supported Greece in guarding the common external border; that is also why we have put money in the Finance Act to support third countries in building up the capacity to deal with migration. It could be border controls, it could be asylum procedures. It is, of course, because we believe that countries closer to the conflicts need to be able to deal with migratory flows in cooperation with us. Because if we don't help them with that, the challenges will end up with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165849	We thank Mrs Krarup. The next question is also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, this time asked by Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165858	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165900	What is the Minister's action plan for what tools will the Minister use to secure the Danish border against a new refugee pressure, and does the Minister believe that new tools are needed to maintain effective border controls at the Danish border so that we do not end up in a situation similar to 2015, again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311165922	Thank you. I would like to start by emphasising that, fortunately, we are in a very different place now than we did in 2015. Europe is clearly better prepared, the external borders are better protected, and we are nowhere near the large number of refugees and migrants we saw crossing the borders in 2015. When we look at Denmark, we are also better prepared here nationally. Since then, new tools have been continuously added to our policy toolbox, so Denmark is now in a better position to handle a massive influx. For example, the law on aliens provides: the possibility that the police may, in exceptional cases, impose a ban on bus, train and ferry operations across the Danish borders; we could have used this at the time. This may happen if the influx of foreigners becomes so violent that the police or immigration authorities cannot deal with the situation. The law also provides for the possibility of introducing so-called carrier liability at internal borders, if this is necessary to ensure effective temporary border controls. This would mean that companies would be penalised if they included passengers to Denmark across the internal Schengen border and those passengers did not have the necessary identification and visa. Similarly, we have the opportunity to raise the level of border controls, where we have the whole infrastructure for border controls, which we did not have at the time. And then the most far-reaching means of action is to activate the emergency braking system, which there has been a lot of public debate about. This will mean that asylum seekers are rejected at the border so that they cannot apply for asylum in Denmark; it is a very far-reaching option which means that Denmark does not comply with its obligations under the Dublin rules. The emergency brake can therefore only be used if there is a crisis situation in which Dublin cooperation has actually collapsed, and that is not the case at present. All in all, we have several different tools that can be used if the situation changes and as things stand now, there is really no indication that we will be in a similar situation as in 2015. I have just received new asylum figures today, and it does not look like there is an increase in the number of asylum seekers, but it is perhaps also a little premature to conclude after the developments that have taken place in Greece. We are, of course, keeping a close eye on the situation, and we are always willing to take the necessary measures so that we do not end up in a 2015 scenario.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170128	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170128-2	After all, it is no more than a few days ago that the Minister was in Brussels to discuss with other EU countries, in other words, discussing precisely the situation on the border between Turkey and Greece, where Turkey is trying to send tens of thousands of asylum seekers and migrants across the border, perhaps precisely in order to put Europe in the same situation. So this is not an unrealistic scenario we have here. And then it is nice of the Minister to outline the legal tools that we have in the toolbox. After all, these were the ones that we ourselves introduced as part of the Blue Government at that time and which, of course, the Social Democrats voted in favour of. But my question is: what is being done in a low-practical way so that we do not end up in a similar situation? Because if there's one thing we learned from 2015, it's how fast things can change. It came, I'd almost say like a lightning bolt from a clear sky. So you just sent one extra cop down to the border... one extra soldier? And if you have not done so, how quickly can you react? Will you only react when people walk up the highways again? or do you have a readiness, that is, a detailed action plan to deal with it, if there are several hundred asylum seekers at the Danish border tomorrow, so that you can react?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170243	We have a plan A and a plan B. Plan A is about keeping the common external border. That is the main task. We already have two patrol boats down there. They have been there since the summer and they help through Frontex the Greek Coast Guard to patrol. Now there's a plane coming, too. We're sending a generator. We'll send blankets. We're sending people from the immigration authorities, the defense and the police down there. This is all to help Greece deal with the current situation. If, contrary to expectations and hopes, Plan A collapses and Europe is once again beginning, we have the tools I have told you about before, and we will be able to decide on 24 hours' notice, for example. pulling an emergency brake. This would follow on from the intensification of border controls. But we are prepared for such a situation to arise. However, as I said, this is Plan B. What this is about is ensuring Europe's joint work in keeping the common external border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170340	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170341	But can the Minister see anything paradoxical about cooperating with us blue parties on the possible closure of the Danish border if there is again a sudden pressure on asylum, but at the same time working with the Red parties to open the door to up to 500 quota refugees? That, in my view, is the epitome of speaking with two tongues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170405	I don't really know if I agree with that. Our ambition on the part of the Social Democrats is not that there should be zero refugees in Denmark in the future. Our ambition is that it should be controlled through the UN and not through trafficking in human beings. That is also why we say that the pressure that is now on Europe's borders is exactly the way it should not be done. Our wish is that we should keep the external borders, that we should not be able to storm the common borders. There is no free immigration to Denmark. The way to get here is to search through one of the many schemes we have been issuing we 70,000 residence permits last year or by getting checked through the UN. That's why it's about doing both at the same time. It is about keeping the common external borders, reducing the spontaneous flow of asylum and showing that, of course, we are prepared to help the international community deal with the refugees that are there. This is primarily about helping in the neighbourhood, but if we can strengthen relations with third countries by dealing with migratory flows, and if part of the price for that is that we also have to resettle quota refugees, I do not think it should be rejected. We have not decided whether or not to take some this year. But it also has to be a tool in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170513	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170514	That is a very interesting consideration, because I agree with this either-or. We cannot both let spontaneous asylum seekers in through the front door, while at the same time letting quota refugees in through the back door. Should I understand the Minister that as long as spontaneous asylum seekers arrive at the Danish border, they will not also let quota refugees in through the back door? Now that the government is working in such detail on what to do if there is a great deal of pressure for asylum, I also think the Danes deserve to hear the government's plans for quota refugees, instead of the government just saying that this is something you decide later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170552	We intend to comply with the legislation, and the bill tabled by a Left Government states that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will decide in the middle of the year whether and how many quota refugees are to be taken. We stand firm on this point. Of course, I will also decide on this later this year. There, of course, we will deal with the general influx of asylum and how integration work is proceeding in general in Denmark. It is clear that what is currently happening on the Greek border may well affect it. It's too early to say anything about it, but I don't want to deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170630	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and Mr. Marcus Knuth. The next question is to the Minister for Housing of Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left, and she has Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, also Left, as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170645	Thank you. Does the Minister have the impression that a young couple, in response to the government's housing intervention, which can affect the values of the cooperative housing, may indicate that the social democratic housing intervention may mean that the couple's dream of having children and moving on to a house is postponed indefinitely and therefore says "and so are we really bound"?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170707-2	As a politician, I am always aware of how the initiatives we put into effect work in practice. However, as a minister, I cannot go into specific matters in detail and therefore not comment on the specific circumstances of the case in question. As I have said, I am aware that the article of 7 February, in order to justify a staff binding, refers primarily to the risk of a fall in value as a result of the speculative halt agreed with the Housing Agreement of 30 January. I should like to stress here that the five-year waiting period should not apply when converting from cooperative housing to rental housing. This means that the properties of the cooperative housing associations are exempted from value losses as a result of the waiting period. Nevertheless, several bank economists have argued that the exemption from the Karen period will not exempt the properties of the cooperative housing associations from value losses as provided for in the agreement of 30 January. However, it is clear from the draft draft law on the Karen period, which was sent to public consultation on 21 February, that derogations from the Karen period apply to conversion from cooperative housing associations and to all subsequent resales. In other words, it is exactly as provided for in the agreement: the cooperatives are being freed. In relation to the green energy requirement, it could affect the cooperative housing to a lesser extent, but it is countered by allowing nominal retention of value assessments. That is why I do not think there is any reason to fear the risk of stick binding, and I should like to conclude by emphasising that the parties to the agreement agree to discuss the situation of cooperative housing once again, should there be any unintended consequences later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170833	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170833-2	Thank you for your answer. I am curious when I hear the Minister say that the cooperatives are being freed, because is it not true that what you free is the cooperatives? With the answer that has come from the FSA, the FSA goes in and talks about the cooperative housing associations, but not about the individual co-operative housing. This means that a couple who owns a home and owns a single dwelling, a single co-habitation certificate, will not be released.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170904	No, that's not true. I have the FSA's note from 5 February 2020 here, and it is under way: • The overall conclusion is therefore that if one considers that the Karen period does not apply at any time to properties that have been cooperative housing associations, it is the FSA's assessment that the Karen period in isolation will not have an effect on the mortgageability of the cooperative bond and the property itself. So, that means that it is both for the cooperative movement and for the property. Of course, I am aware that there are two different lending situations, but that is the assessment from the FSA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170940	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311170940-2	But there it is also the case that, with that answer, there is, of course, the fact that the individual cohabitants are so, provided that they are then sold as a rental property. But let me move on to one more question. Does that impress the Minister when a citizen who bought his cohabitation in the spring of 2019 says that he is now afraid to be technically insolvent? What does the Minister say about that? After all, it is one citizen after another who is out to say that they are concerned about the measures taken by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171018	As I have said, I am not very much in favour of going down in the individual case, but overall it is of course clear that we are not interested in and have never been interested in the fact that the cooperatives would suffer losses as a result of this. That is why we have also said from the start that the Karen period will be done in a way that does not affect the values of the cooperative housing. Then there are some green requirements which, to a limited extent, affect loan possibilities in cooperative housing, but these are some requirements which the questioner's own party has also agreed to along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171048	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171052	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. I am actually a little confused, because I understand that what the Minister is saying is that there is no cause for concern, that one can take it quite calmly, but vice versa the Minister has replied here in the Folketing and in the public: yes, there will be a fall in prices, and the discussion will then be about how much. What I would like to ask the Minister for Housing is whether he cannot understand the uncertainty created by government intervention, that is, that there are some homeowners and cohabitants who are concerned and perhaps trust more in the assessments that are from their bank, of how much their cohabitation now falls into value than the assessment that the Minister for Housing reads that the FSA has. Can't the Minister understand that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171144	I shall correct that misunderstanding if the questioner thinks that there are homeowners who will be affected by this intervention. I'm not familiar with that. If the Left or the questioner thinks that this is the case, I would, of course, very much like to hear about how you feel about it. The only thing we have discussed along the way is the cooperative housing sector and the influence that is, of course, through rental. There I have to say that of course there are some, including banks, who have an interest in influencing this process, and that is, of course, part of the discussion that is going on. Some banks believed that on some assumptions, which later turned out to be wrong, there would be a relatively large loss, while other banks thought that they would continue as before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171225	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171227	Thank you for that answer, Minister. Is it to be understood that the homeowners and cohabitants who fear that this might cost them something on their cohabitation value and on the cooperative crown have completely misunderstood it and that the banks who have been out saying it have completely misunderstood it? You've just done a wrong calculation based on some wrong assumptions. Is that what the Minister is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171254-2	What I'm saying is that the bank economists who have been out predicting some very large losses I think that Jyske Bank's economist said 15-16 per cent, and Nordea's bank economist said 10-20 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171325	Then we have to get back to Mrs. Heidi Bank for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171331	I think the answer given by the Minister is very interesting, because the Ministry itself has come out to say that the calculations underlying this are very volatile. That's one thing of it. The second point is, of course, that some answers are constantly being referred to by the FSA, and I have asked several times, and I have asked for answers from the Ministry as to what the answer is based on. I mean, what exactly did the Minister ask the FSA about when they got these answers? I have not been able to get that answer from the Minister. Is this something that the Minister can guarantee is being sent to us, that is, what kind of question has been put to the FSA?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171409	Well, I haven't personally asked the FSA any questions, but there's an answer on the way to the questioner about the process. I would say that nobody is asked whether there are any underlying notes. I'm not aware of any underlying notes about these assessments. These are bell-clear assessments of how to perceive the Karen period specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171433	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, who asks the next question to the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171443	Thank you. The question is this: when the Minister of Berlingske says that he cannot live with the government's housing intervention means that the units lose 30-35 per cent. of their value, this then means that the Minister can live with losses on cooperative housing that are less than 30%, e.g. a loss of 29 per cent.? Reference is made to the article "The Minister of the Treasury's rescue suit to the shareholders: Of course, we cannot live with a loss of value of 35%, in Berlingske on 11 February 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171515	The article in Berlingske from 11 February 2020 acts among other things. on the claims concerning losses resulting from the Housing Agreement made by several bank economists immediately after the conclusion of the Housing Agreement from 30 January 2020. In the article I say that we cannot, of course, live with a situation in which PropertyDanmark believes we will find ourselves in where the cooperatives lose 30-35 per cent. of their value. But I do not think that will happen either. Thus, the government does not consider that the cooperatives will suffer a loss of this magnitude. As I said in my answer to question 779, the five-year waiting period is not to apply for conversion from cooperative housing to rental property. The draft draft law on the Karen period, which was submitted for consultation on 21 February 2020, makes it clear that the derogation from the Karen period applies to transformation from the cooperative housing association and to all subsequent resales. We have the FSA's word for that. On the other hand, the green energy requirement will be less likely to affect the cooperative housing sector, but this will be countered by allowing nominal value assessments to be maintained. It is therefore my opinion and that of the government that the cooperatives alone are affected very little if at all by the agreement. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the parties to the agreement agree to re-examine the situation of cooperative housing in the event of adverse consequences later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171629	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171630	Thank you for that answer, Minister. After all, I have been in the position of the Minister myself, and what worries me is that if I sat listening and was co-habitants, I would be equally concerned about the Minister's reply... is the word 'tror', because if you are co-habitants, you can't use it that the Minister believes anything. A co-habitant must expect that when a minister says something, it is a professional estimate one is aiming for. That is why I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to take a step further in this House today. I think that would be quite reasonable, and that would remove the criticism that my party has made of the Minister and the unreasonable agreement that has been reached, so I would give the Minister the opportunity to issue a guarantee here today and say that the intervention that has been made will not be put in the form of falling cohabitancy prices, that it will not have any significance. I think the Minister should issue that guarantee here today instead of arguing that the Minister thinks we need to know what the Minister knows. I think the government actually owes it when you put so many thousands of people in a situation where what they have saved up for throughout their lives is now suddenly falling into value. And I have to say that there are a number of large banks, there are a number of professional organisations that assess something completely different from what the Housing Minister and the Danish FSA are assessing, and therefore it is entirely justified that there are some cohabitation owners out there who are worried. So I think the Minister should take this opportunity today to provide the guarantee which the cooperative housing units deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171817-2	Well, I apologise to the questioner that the questioner has not been involved in this process in the past. We have discussed a wide range of different calculations of what the green energy requirements will mean for the co-operative housing and what the Karen period will mean for the co-operative housing. After all, all the different ratings have been on the table. The questioner's rapporteur will, of course, be able to explain this because they have been sent to the Left, like all the other documents, and that includes the various assessments and also an assessment by me of the green energy requirement. Depending on what an energy class property has, it will cost 3-8 per cent. in the loan facility available to you, in that you will be able to freeze your cooperative assessment. Those numbers have been on the table along the way in this process; they are freely advanced and available, and they can be taken as a starting point. But the issue of a guarantee that not a single cohabitation will lose a single crown, as the Left has also asked me to do in the past, is not going to happen, because there may be a risk that there will be a cohabitation that will lose 1 kr. or more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171928	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311171928-2	There the minister and the government are exposed, because down here in the hall you say that people shouldn't be worried like co-habitants, but when you are pressured a little and have to promise something not just believe anything, but promise something and know something the government doesn't dare promise anything to the co-habitants. I have to say again in a strong call to the government and to the Minister for Housing: help all the thousands of cohabitants out there who are worried about this intervention and what it means for them and give them the guarantee, given that that is what the Minister indirectly says in his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172004	No, I haven't given any guarantee that not one cohabitation will lose 1 kr. We've been discussing this on a case-by-case basis over three months. I think 114 written answers have been sent. One of the questions put by the author's party required 11,000 different calculations, including: of the cooperative housing sector on Læsø, where there is not a single co-habitation. So it is thoroughly uncovered what the consequences are. And I just have to say that it doesn't help to campaign on this rather than recognise what the Liberals know very well, namely that we ourselves were ready to introduce these green energy requirements, which is what matters to the cooperatives. I really think the Left would like to recognise that rather than polemicise about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172046	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172048	However, when we have followed the debate relatively closely, we are a little concerned, because when the Minister is asked to answer it is something of relevance. An article was referred to in Berlingske, where a 35-percent loss was not enough to live with, and I have to say that this does not, of course, show a great deal of understanding of what this means. Because with the statement and also with what the Minister is saying here today, there is no security, no security, no co-habitation for the fact that the Minister of Housing is serious about this. Well, it would be quite easy to say: listen, there's nothing in this that's supposed to create any uncertainty. But the Minister will not do that, and it is just a little too bad that the Minister cannot remove that uncertainty, because you sit back and say: okay, 35%. Is it too much, but is it so 20%, or is it 15%, that the minister believes that a cohabitation can lose on this deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172147	But I can also say to the new questioner that I would urge you to read out the papers that have been sent over the table in connection with these debates. The left has access to all of them; they are free. I even think the questioner's own wife was involved in the negotiations and got those papers. After all, it says what our assessments are based on the DCF method, that is, what we estimate will be losses in lending opportunities. At the same time, however, it is also a premise for the fact that you have the opportunity to maintain your cooperative assessment. What we disagreed about was the carnage period. We have the FSA's word for that because it doesn't affect the valuation. So I take it very seriously. But I also think that when you come down here in the Chamber and you want to ask questions about the technique of this, you must have read the papers on which it is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172228	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172229	But it is just amazing that the Minister is saying that we have to read papers when the Minister is unable to convince a large number of bank economists who have spoken out on this matter. If it were so straightforward, then all those who have spoken out about it here and said that it could have great consequences, could have gone to penance and said: we have unfortunately misunderstood it completely. So why is it that the Minister cannot see that there is a cause for concern? What are these bank economists that have been referred to completely wrong about? Why, then, does the Minister not get the bank economists to correct their mistakes if it is as obvious as the Minister says?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172306	What the questioner calls a large number of are two, one of which has also subsequently said that she is aware that the assumptions underlying her calculations are some other than those contained in the draft law. So, again, it will also suit the questioner to appear prepared here if you want to discuss this matter. And I just have to say: what is the premise is, as I said earlier, the question of how many times you are exempt from the waiting period after you have ceased to be a cooperative housing association. And that is clear from what has been said in consultation: that is what you do as many times as you like, not just for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172340	Then we have to get back to the main questioner. It's sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172344	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I have not become wiser. And the cohabitants who are sitting out there and who we had hoped could be reassured by the Minister's reply, I think, if not confused as worried. And what the Minister is saying is, we've done the math. But in the answer that has been sent over and that we know very well in the Left, it is also recognised that this is a very uncertain way. And what a guarantee is there that the one that solved the calculation that has been made in the Ministry turns out to be different in reality. And we see a drop of 10, 15, 20, 30%. in the cooperative housing market. And then the cohabitants can't use it that the minister wants to talk to those who voted for the bill for something. Then you've lost the money. Can't the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172434	I think that if I were a cohabitant, which I am, I would be more concerned that the Left is puffing up and making scaremongering down here about a 30% drop, for which there is no evidence. The method we have used is not a random method. DCF, discounted cash flow, is the method used to make value assessments, and that is the method we have used to calculate it. So for the point of saying and insinuating that it is a random method that we have used and that we have written on the back of a piece of paper, I would like to say that this is not the way it has happened. That's the official calculation method we've used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172510	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Housing, and this time the main questioner is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and the co-questioner is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172519	Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172521	The question is this: When the Minister hears about tenants in a property in the metropolitan area, who have a desire to use the obligation to offer in the lease law to form a cooperative housing association in order to avoid being sold to a capital manager, but who has been refused from the bank, among other things. with reference to the fact that, of course, there is at present. is a certain insecurity and uncertainty in general about the valuation of rental property caused by the political agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172548	I would like to stress that the agreement of 30 January does not generally contain elements which restrict the creation of cooperative housing associations. On the contrary, we have agreed that a committee should be set up to look at the financing rules for cooperative housing. In addition, I would like to stress that, according to the article, there is a case in which the tenants were offered, on 4 December 2019, to purchase a rental property on a cooperative basis according to the rules of the Rental Act. Under § 103 of the Lease Act, the obligation to tender is fulfilled by the owner offering to buy the property at the same price, cash payment and other terms as the owner can obtain by sale to the other side. In practice, this means that the property must be offered to the tenants at the same price that the investor is willing to pay for the property as rental property. The offer was made at a time when the housing contract had not yet been concluded. Regardless of whether the cooperative housing association was offered the property at a price higher than it would be after the entry into force of the new rules, this price after the agreement will only be affected by the increased energy requirements, as cohabitation properties are completely exempted from the Karen period. Of course, banks and mortgage banks are free to assess their future risk and whether they want to finance the purchase of a property. This will be particularly relevant at a stage in which the consideration of takeovers has taken place during the political debate. I do not believe that such a situation will recur as the agreement has clarified the scope of the intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172710	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172711	Thank you for your answer. I don't know if it made me much smarter. Now I have spent a lot of time on this, and one of the questions I have put to the Minister goes on loaning, which has filled a lot. The Minister has said that if you could freeze the value assessment, there would be no problem. In question 68 of the Housing Committee, I have asked about the valuation rules, and the Minister answers that a mortgage credit institution must not base a valuation valuation on the valuation of the institution. That is quite clear. It is the FSA which says that a frozen valuation valuation cannot be attributed any value in relation to the fact that a bank or a mortgage institution has to value a property it has to be assessed on the basis of the market price. Then it's just that I'm wondering why the minister says there's no problem. So, in reply to me, the Minister admits that the valuation, which the Minister constantly says you can put on the basis of the frozen value assessment, cannot be used when the property is to be mortgaged. Can the Minister try to explain to me how that difference should not have any bearing on pricing? Because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172834	What lies in the green energy requirements that have been made in this agreement, which the author's own party was also willing to go into, and an alternative agreement has been outlined in which they enter into, is that depending on the energy standard of the property there will be a loss of 3 to 8 per cent. That loss is offset by the fact that a value assessment can be frozen, but the loss will of course still be there in relation to the loan option there is. But to say that a loan loss of 3%. is the same as a loss of 3%, is not necessarily true. There are many variables that influence how much you can borrow when you get down to the bank, first and foremost what your own financial situation is. And then, of course, the bank must assess a property, not on market terms, but as a rental property. That is what is at the root, and that is what the FSA also makes clear over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172920	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172921	But then the Minister also admits that this is important, because if the mortgage lending which a mortgage institution has to take into account is lower as a result of this, then it is also in the price of the cooperative bond. I just think it would be liberating if the Minister said: yes, that is right. Because of the changes in the rules, it is important for lending opportunities and therefore also for the price, and it may also mean for the individual cohabitant or for the individual wishing to buy a cohabitation that it is cut off because the lending opportunities are weakened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172957	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311172958	Of course, what determines it is the market, and the market is in that way that if there is a buyer for a property, he buys at that price, whether a bank may think it is a maximum price which it cannot cover security of up to 100 per cent. And what we can see from the Copenhagen cooperative housing market is that there are more cohabitants than there are owner-occupied dwellings, yet there are not very many cohabitants for sale, and that is because the vast majority of cohabitants have a maximum price below market value. That is why it will still be the case that if you have a cohabitation which is set at 1 million. kr., and a similar condo costs 3 million. kr., then it will still be interesting for people to buy that apartment. And that's the market price. It is, of course, the one who really defines how much you buy or sell a cohabitation for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173044	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173050	Well, thank you for the answer. That is an interesting answer for the Minister, because what I hear the Minister say is that in this way one is willing to distort the cooperative housing market, so that those who can afford to afford those who have extra money in the bank and have a large savings fund can enter the cooperative housing market in Copenhagen, whereas those who need to borrow the money unfortunately have to give up entering the market. Is it social democratic policy in this way to distort the cooperative housing market? Because I have just heard the Minister talk about how addictive it is to have a cohabitation. Perhaps I thought that it was as many as possible that one wanted to have the opportunity to come in to buy a cohabitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173134-2	No, it is primarily those who want to buy a cohabitation that must do so. I do not necessarily believe that Copenhagen or Aarhus would be a better city if all the dwellings were cohabitants. I see it as an opportunity to make mixed forms of housing, where there are also common homes and owner-occupied homes and other types of housing. But as I see it, this is basically about the fact that the vast majority of cohabitants today are being sold outside the open market. There are very few real estate deals with cooperative housing, and that is because prices are below what they can be traded for typically. And that is why it will also be a form of housing which will be more accessible, in that the price is lower than what one would have paid if it had been a market price.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173210	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173210-2	The Minister must excuse me very much, but the Minister stood a moment ago and said that if someone could not borrow the money, there would be other buyers for it anyway. Is it not a distortion, understood in the sense that those who have large savings will be able to afford to buy cooperative housing, whereas for those who do not have that savings, it will be much harder to enter the market? Because they are simply not going to be able to borrow for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173236-2	I think that people who do not have a savings will still have a lot easier to borrow for a $1 million cohabitation. kr. than to a similar owner's apartment, which costs 3 million. kr. But the essence of this and what I answered to keep it on the path is, of course, the question of what determines the price. And what determines the price is how many people want to pay the price that a cohabitation has as maximum value. There we can just see at the moment that there are very few cooperatives, at least in the capital, where people are going to pay less than what is the maximum price.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173310	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173311	The last part is actually very interesting. In other words, in those areas where there is no trade at maximum prices, but where there are some other prices, on the basis of the assessments, yes, it will then put itself in the price. Maybe I think it's a little conspicuous. The Minister does not think that this is important in Copenhagen, because there are so many people who want to buy, but where there are fewer, it will obviously have an effect. I think that was a rather special statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173351	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173353	That's, of course, talk. My grandmother moved out of a cohabitation in Store Heddinge, and the cohabitation is part of those built for example in the 1990s. If it is they that the questioner will take care of, then I have to say that in the vast majority of small towns it is not at all profitable to make Section 5 paragraph 5. 2- renovations so that they are completely unaffected by what we have adopted in relation to that paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173417	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The next question is also to the Minister for Housing, and this time the questioner is Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173432	If the Minister understands the vexation that both the young seller and the young buyer may have after the sale of the seller's cooperative residence failed, because the bank chose to warn the buyer not to buy the apartment with the message that with the new change of law this association could well fall into value and if it were me, then I would not buy it at this time. Because of the great risk. Worst case in this association, the apartments of 56 m 2
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173517-2	As a politician, I am always aware of how the initiatives we put into effect work in practice. However, as a minister, I cannot go into specific matters in detail and therefore not comment on the specific circumstances of the case referred to in the article. Having said that, I am aware that the article of 10 February refers to the bank's announcement of a fall in value immediately after the conclusion of the housing agreement of 30 January. As I mentioned in answer to Question 779 the five-year waiting period is not to apply to the conversion of the cooperative housing association into rental property. The draft draft law on the Karen period, which was submitted for consultation on 21 February, makes it clear that the derogation from the Karen period applies only to conversion from the cooperative housing association and to all subsequent sales. On the other hand, the green energy requirement will be less likely to affect the cooperative housing sector. It is a premise that has been put forward during the negotiations that all the parties, including those who ended up not participating in the agreement, have accepted. However, this is countered by allowing nominal value assessments to be maintained. In this way, the shareholders will be assured of a reduction in the maximum price for which they can legally sell their share. However, the retention does not prevent some of the older cohabitation properties in the Copenhagen area and Aarhus from experiencing a slight fall in prices. This could have a limited impact on borrowing and the winding-up of the cooperative housing association at some point in time. It cannot be denied that these conditions will be included in the price a buyer will pay for the cooperative residence. Nor can it be denied that some potential buyers will find it more difficult to borrow at a cooperative residence, but it is estimated that the impact on the salesability and commercial price of the cooperative homes will be limited. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the parties to the agreement agree to have to re-examine the situation of the cooperative housing if there were to be any unintended consequences later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173652	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173652-2	Thank you, I must say to the Minister for Housing, but I am not sure that those who stand out in the market and hear that answer will have anything other than an annoyance that the Minister does not have the slightest sense of how sorry it is to be a buyer and a seller in something that the Minister has produced in this way. Well, I'll just have to take note of that. The next question I would like to ask is: can the Minister state what the Minister was thinking when he heard that the market was concerned that these rules were on the way, and does the Minister agree that the concerns of the market from the industry, mortgage credit, banks, pension funds are really present?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173756	First of all, I have to say that I should have no one, I think the wording was the least form of empathy in what it means to buy or sell a cohabitation, that I have it in the function of living in a cohabitation and selling it at some point. So I'd like to be disqualified from being lectured on how it feels. I think that is a rather strange approach to it. Then I would like to say that, of course, I am keeping an eye on what is happening on the market, especially in the case of cooperatives. Of course it's something I follow. I am not interested in the fact that there should be a loss of value for cooperative housing. I have been fighting for three months in these negotiations to do everything I can to ensure that they are kept as much as possible. So that's something I'm following very closely, no doubt about it. For example, the Karen period was just knitted together and made in a way that made an intervention that affected short-term speculators, but which did not at the same time hit co-operatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173849	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173850	I do not think I was given the answer to my question, but I also have another question, and I will see if I can get an answer to that question. After all, the FSA regulates the industry, and the values that are assumed by the industry must be assumed to be those that comply with those rules. Can I have the Minister confirm that that is also what the Minister is thinking about exactly this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311173921-2	I have some doubts as to exactly what the question was, but of course the FSA regulates financial companies and the industry at all. Now I have read some of their conclusions, so I must save the questioner some of it, but it says here as a follow-up that it is not believed that the waiting period has any effect, that it will also be the FSA's interpretation of the possibility in relation to the valuation notice. In other words, when it comes to making the announcement that banks can value a former cooperative housing association and thus loaning opportunities, it will be taken as a starting point that the Karen period does not have any significance. So they are the ones who make that announcement, and so they are also the ones who set out the guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174006	Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank who's the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174008	I hardly know what to call it when the minister says that he has fought to protect the cohabitants. If there is one thing that the Left has reported out quite clearly, and we did so very early, it is that we did not want this to cost anything for the cooperatives. We were willing to look at it all, but for us it was a requirement that this should not cost the cohabitants. I think it's thick that it's being said. This has to be seen in relation to the fact that we were in a situation where the Minister poured the parties out of the negotiating room, despite the fact that we had been sitting the night before, when an agreement was made that we should look further at it, that we should move on with the negotiations when some more questions had been answered. The minister wanted a narrow agreement, and that's what the minister got. Now, in fact, I have exceeded my speaking time, but I would like the Minister to reply: how has the Minister protected them? And where are these limits to what the cohabitants may lose in value? Because the Minister has been out to say both in the media and in the media, that on the one hand it must not cost anything, but on the other hand we cannot get a guarantee of how little it must cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174131	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174132	I think it would go too far to go into an analysis of the progress that was made, but I do not feel that I would have preferred to have made a narrow agreement. I don't think so either. It's an agreement that goes over the middle. But it may be too much to go into it, and I do not think it serves any purpose either. I would just like to say that the guarantee that the Left demanded of me in December is extremely difficult to comply with when it is in the way that the Left put it up, namely that it would have 11 000 different calculations on how much cohabitants lose and do not lose, among other things. in Læsø Municipality, where there are no cohabitants at all. It's really hard to live up to. I can't guarantee that there isn't a single cohabitation garden that won't lose a penny. That was the guarantee I was asked to give.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174218	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174219	Now it is the case that I know that there are several computers in the Ministry, so I am also sure that you can make some very extensive calculations, and I have an expectation that you will. The consequence of this is that it hits a lot of ordinary people who bought a cohabitation. I just think that the Minister, when he says that it should not cost the cohabitants anything, can give it a guarantee to the cohabitants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174244	Well, the Left can formulate their demand for a guarantee in one way or another, but I have not been out to give guarantees that no cohabitants will lose a penny, because I know that the fact that we introduce energy requirements, as in all other parts of our society, will of course have a meaning. It is of course a matter with which the questioner's own party has also agreed, in other words, that more stringent energy requirements must be made. It'll have a meaning. Of course, we in the Left will also have the opportunity to comment on this in the course of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174310	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174312	One has an experience that, when these questions are answered, there is no real desire to give a completely sincere answer and, in fact, no desire to go into this issue that we are discussing here. But I just have to take note of that. My final question is this: does the Minister really think that this is a proper way of dealing with the country's cohabitants? Think that there is plenty of risk in the market as it currently stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174358	Of course, I can't take sir. Kim Valentine's experience from him. It's got to be on his own account. But I have to say that all the way through this process I have struggled to ensure that we hit the cohabitants as little as possible, but there is a historical link between the cooperative housing sector and rental property, which means that when we go in and make energy demands, for example, it is difficult to avoid it altogether. However, I believe that this will be a discussion which will be repeated in all the contexts in which we are discussing increased energy requirements, namely that it may have consequences. I'm fighting to make sure they get as small as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174430	That concludes Question Time. Thank you to the Minister for Housing, and thank you to Mr. Kim Valentin and Mrs Heidi Bank as the last of the round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200311174440	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 March 2020, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda on the Danish Parliament's website.
