ParlaMint-DK_20200610100007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100028	The debate is open. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100042	Thank you, President. We are dealing today with motion for a resolution No. B 172 which obliges the government by 1 June 2020 to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to negotiations on the advance of investment in the transport infrastructure • investments that should be able to be launched as early as the second half of 2020, as part of the stimulation of the economy after the closure of the corona. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution instructs the government by autumn 2020 to invite the parties of the Folketing to negotiations on a comprehensive and coherent plan for transport investments up to 2030. I would like to warn in advance that a sense of déjà vu may arise in the discussion of this motion for a resolution, because the wording is unmistakably reminiscent of the text on which the question was based. F 36 in May a few weeks ago, and the proposal for adoption made at the time by the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. Last week, the theme was the same when we discussed B 96 on the launch of a number of road projects from the previous government and the Danish People's Party's Investment Plan. I can therefore also explain in advance that my messages today are the same as they were during the debate on the question No. F 36 and motion for a resolution (Doc. B 96 and this is because, despite the fact that a few weeks have passed, the situation is basically the same. Danish society and the Danish economy continue to be affected by the corona outbreak, and we still need to create an overview of the economy for investment when we know the consequences of the decided corona relief packages. We in the government see the way out of the crisis in two stages: right now and here we hold our hands under Danish economy and Danish jobs, and as we open society again, there will also be a need for a recovery of economic activity • a recovery that creates both activity and jobs while at the same time making Denmark greener and addressing the climate challenges. In this recovery, infrastructure investments play a key role. However, there must be a clear plan for ensuring that our infrastructure planning creates the basis for a coherent transport system, where modes of transport and mobility solutions play together and where we have the best basis for making informed decisions that can help support the green transition. This has not changed since the question debate in May, when a majority, namely the government together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, indicated that precisely because a broad majority of Parliament's parties have set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030, measured in relation to the 1990 base year, climate and environmental considerations must also be very much part of a future infrastructure plan. That is why the forthcoming negotiations on a long-term infrastructure plan towards 2030 must also be coordinated with the climate action plans, which is why I cannot today set a date when we can call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on a new infrastructure agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100408	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100413	My first brief remark is that the Minister of Transport just said that it was not possible to assess how much money could be spent on infrastructure in Denmark until it was clear what the Corona aid packages would cost. That is where I think the government should coordinate its views. So the Minister for Finance says something quite different. He says that the corona relief packages do not affect the structural sustainability of public finances in Denmark, and thus also not how much money can be spent on investments in Denmark. He said so at the press conference, and he said so in a recent conciliation in the Committee on Finance. Then there is no point in having a Minister for Transport running around thinking that the Minister for Transport is wiser to the economy than the Minister for Finance and that the Minister for Transport is saying something quite different. So can we just make it clear that it is the Minister of Finance who is right here and the Minister of Transport who is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100513	As I said in my speech, as we open society up again, we will also be looking at the need for a recovery of economic activity, a recovery that creates both activity and jobs, and here infrastructure investment plays a key role. But it is also clear that we need to have an overview of the Danish economy in a long-term perspective. That's what I said in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100536	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100539	It is fortunate that it is recorded on video, which is why you can see and hear again that the Minister of Transport spoke about corona aid packages in his speech, but he does not talk about that. I would like to know if it is the impression of the Minister of Transport that the Danes in the parliamentary elections in June 2019 took the view that if there were a social democratic government, there would be less investment in infrastructure than if there were a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100611	I said in my speech here in the Danish Parliament that there is still a need to create an overview of the economy for investment, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I don't mean to be polemical here, but that's what I said. It is true that, of course, the corona relief packages have consequences for society and that any recovery could also have consequences for society. But what the long-term economy looks like in Denmark is a prerequisite for entering and making long-term investments. And nobody has an overall view of that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100644	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100647	Thank you so much. I wonder a little what the Minister is saying. Because what we have heard so far, at least, has been that we should just negotiate some climate something home first, and then we could do it. Now it's a coronanique we need to get an overview of, and then we can do it. But this is basically about infrastructure, especially when we need to get society back on track. I have to ask the Minister to confirm that. But would the Minister not agree with me that infrastructure contributes precisely to growth and prosperity in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100724	That is also why, in order to repeat myself, I say that in this recovery, infrastructure investment plays a key role.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100729	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100732	Okay, so far, so good. The Hillerød motorway, just to take a concrete example, is one of the things that is really, really urgent. There are serious accidents going on over and over again, and it is therefore both awful, but actually a little strange, to witness this case being pickled over and over again because we are continuing to postpone these infrastructure negotiations. Can the Minister not soon give us a date when we are going to negotiate this? Because it's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100806	I think that the extension of the Hillerød motorway is an exciting and good project, which also has a good return, like a large number of other projects on Funen, in Jutland and on Sjælland. That is why I am also looking forward to negotiating this widely, preferably with as many parties as possible. And, as I said in my speech, I cannot set a date for the start of negotiations, but it is also clear that infrastructure investment plays a role, of course, whether it is road, rail or bicycle path.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100840	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100851	Thank you for that, President. I note that the Minister warned against possible repetitions, but the Minister does not need to warn against this, because repetition may indeed be good, especially if something wise is said, but I am still in favour of hearing that from the Minister on this matter. The only thing we are asking for is not a date, but an indication of when we are going to start these negotiations, and when we are going to raise it again, and I understand that the Minister suggested that it might be a little premature when we have just had a question debate, it is because a great many parties in this Chamber, among other things. The Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals, to mention some, indicated exactly the same thing: let us now get to work on these negotiations. That is why we do not agree with the view that we can get started. I am very surprised at what the argument is basically against going ahead. If this is the Corona argument, then we have heard the Minister of Finance say that the investment framework is intact. It has nothing to do with the corona aid packages. So is it the corona? No, it can't be. Does it have anything to do with the climate negotiations? There we know that there is a close link between investment and what needs to be done on the railways and the roads. There is no contradiction. On the contrary, it is an argument that the negotiations can take place at the same time. What is the argument that we cannot have a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610100959	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101002	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is as committed as he is, and so I would just like to say thank you for the extended hand from the Left, in relation to the possibility of a joint account of the considerations that exist. I do not believe that anyone here in the Folketing is in doubt about the importance of infrastructure investment and, for that matter, also investments in the green area, that is energy, and that it can help restore the Danish economy. That is why, of course, I also look constructively at the extended hand of the Left in relation to this. If we can find a formula in which we can all see ourselves, then we must look at the work of the committee. But I also understand that one can have a desire to get started, but vice versa we also need to have a comprehensive overview of the Danish economy and also be sure that the corona situation is well over.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101105	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101108	Yes, we are stretching out our hand, and we are doing so because it is important, and that is why we want a result instead of a dog fight. So I hope that we can land something after today's debate. But can't we just get a little closer? Now we have pointed out that it is absolutely crucial to get started in the autumn of this year. At least if not a date, can the Minister at least give us a date, so a year for when the Minister expects us to start negotiating?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101134	I hope, of course, that we can start negotiations as soon as there is an overall view and as soon as we have a certainty as to what the climate negotiations and the climate action plan will mean in relation to CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101156	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101200	Thank you, sir. President. I am optimistic, but I would also like to admit that I have probably not expected the Minister of Transport here today to come to the Chamber and say: I simply support this motion for a resolution; it is fantastically unique, so it is the government's cup of tea. The Minister probably wouldn't bite to fuck like that; I totally agree with that. But it is a great surprise to us in the Danish People's Party that at least the Minister of Transport does not open a door in relation to one of the two initiatives contained in this motion for a resolution, and that is precisely that in the short run, in relation to the very situation in which we find ourselves and to which the Minister refers, namely the Corona crisis, etc. With rising unemployment and all sorts of other things, it would make a great deal of sense to go in and look at some of the capital investment that can be advanced: traffic reduction measures, asphalt work on motorways, brother-restoration, road safety and also a number of small works that can be carried out because the vvm studies have been carried out. Then why doesn't the government at least open up in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101309	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101312	It is true that you always have to look into a resolution and see if there is anything that you can accommodate. I have, of course, also looked at whether there is a time machine on the shelves of the Ministry, so that we can live up to what is being proposed here, that is to say, where the government is required to do something in the past. It was not possible to find a time machine. However, when it comes to making investments in infrastructure, it is of course one of the things that can help restore the Danish economy. The government has not taken a position on whether this should be done in the form of creating a large overall infrastructure plan, or whether some initiatives should be made on the short track or a combination of both.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101400	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101403	The discussion on the speed of legislative work may seem to me to be going with the person who is quite close to the Minister at the moment, in relation to implementing things, because this motion for a resolution has, in fact, been sent in quite well in relation to the date of 1 June. Then there is, in fact, just the immediate consequence that time is running out. It will continue to do so. But that does not change the fact that the Minister could make a little more effort to explain it to the Folketing and the many parties who are actually proposing it and believe that it makes good sense to advance a number of the smaller investments and precisely to ensure that there can be more employment in the area now that we have a corona crisis. That is where we think it is a little too bad that the Minister of Transport has put it in reverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101445	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101449	In fact, I do not think we are so divided, because, as I said in my speech, investment in infrastructure is one of the things that can correct Danish economy after the corona, and that is perhaps some of the things that we, if we are to put on the constructive glasses, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, of the Left, has indicated that he could agree together when we proceed in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101513	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101518	The Minister will wait for such an overall overview of Danish economy. At the same time, the Minister of Transport here today says that investments in road projects could also play a central role in the recovery of Denmark. I certainly agree with the latter. I understand that there is an opening to make investments, including in the short term. And then it is just an invitation to call for negotiations on investments that can be rolled out on the short track, because it does not have to wait for everything else. Well, I understand that everything has to wait for a climate and environmental action plan to be put in place, but the cycle path will remain green, regardless of whether it is agreed on this side of a climate action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101614	Yes, it is also the case that the aid packages are constantly being looked at. There are also, I can also understand, negotiations on that in the coming period, as indicated by the Prime Minister here in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday. So this is, of course, something in which there is an ongoing process, and where I know it is the case that all the parties of the Folketing are also invited to these discussions. So to have to do something independent in a single ministerial area would probably be to take things out of context, but I can agree with the indications that have been here broadly for the time being in the debate that infrastructure investment obviously plays a key role and is one of several instruments that is good to resort to if you want to rectify the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101708	Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101711	There is also a road project: the motorway all the way to Frederikssund. There's a construction law. In other words, it is also a project that can be launched at relatively short notice. A civil engineering law has been passed. The vvm has been made. It's being updated this year. So it can actually also run if you wanted to promote it. The Left has suggested that we set infrastructure projects in motion, and not only in bicycle paths, but in something that actually also provides jobs, and that is what we have created an expectation of. I also hope that the Minister will be involved in this, so that we can create some road investment, including in North Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101747	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101751	Yeah, it would be weird if you didn't, sir. Hans Andersen mentioned a project. You have to do that when you're elected in an area. So I'd like to sign for that. It is also an excellent project, just as there are excellent projects on Funen and in Jutland and various places on Zealand. It is a project which also has a good return and which will indeed create jobs. So it is not the case that, as a minister and representative of the government, I have something against that project, but whether it should be implemented will, of course, be part of the concrete negotiations on an investment plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101826	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101828	Thank you. Well, it must be a shame to be Minister of Transport and then to be on the brakes rather than to be allowed to make some of these good infrastructure investments, which, as such, lies in a great many plans that were in the Social Democratic Party and which we also had in the Left and in the Blue Government. That is also why we want to help with this. I am glad that the Minister for Transport has now mentioned twice in his replies that Funen is also very high in terms of attention; fortunately we can understand that. When, at some point, we arrive at what we expect to be the start of these negotiations, will the Minister confirm that the projects which are fully ready for preparation are either ready or in fact in progress? And that is precisely where we can point to precisely the Funen, where, fortunately, with a left-wing government in the lead, work was started on the third motorway track, which we can see when we are going over there now. Then we just need to push the button to get the piece south of Odense too. Everything is folded and ready; just the button needs to be pressed. Does the Minister intend to press the button for that stage immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101938	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610101944	As I said, there are many good projects across the country. I have mentioned both Funen, Jutland and Sjælland several times, and I should also like to point out that in relation to Lolland-Falster, we have together, many parties in the Danish Parliament, also set in motion a very important project where the spade goes into the ground on 1 January 2021, namely in relation to the Fehmarn tunnel. And that's why it's never quite boring to be Minister of Transport. Nor should it be concealed that the efforts that I have also experienced that the Danish Parliament's parties have made in relation to the Corona management have been very proactive. That is why I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for having been able to deal with it as well. And it is clear that when we come to discuss transport investments, there are also some projects that are ready to go and that are really exciting. - Sir, you can. Erling Bonnesen is completely reassured, and this also applies to the project on Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102046	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102048	Thank you. Now we're still gone this year one, you can say, after the latest parliamentary election, and usually • Whether the Minister of Transport is red, blue or any color, you're usually happy that there's such a good time in the spade and cord clipping, right? And that is why I thought it must be very unfortunate as Minister for Transport now for a whole year to have only been able to look up the old scrapbooks and have not really been able to contribute to it. Well, then I'm glad the Minister of Transport has that focus on the Funen. And normally we like to get as much money as possible, so is it not quite natural to continue the work that has been started and thus get as much money as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102129	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102132	However, it is true that in transport policy decisions should preferably be taken as widely as possible. I have been chairman of the Committee on Transport in the past, and in this work I have also been involved in some of the preparatory work for the decisions which have led to some of the initiations which I myself have actually been involved in in the past year, and I am, of course, pleased about that. That is why we should also just remember that what is best is that we make broad political It is my lot to ensure that there will be a broad political agreement on infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102206	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102212	Thank you very much. Yes, now I could also stand here and talk about South Jutland projects, but I will refrain from doing so, because we spent most of the evening on that yesterday. I would like to ask the Minister once again to confirm that we are at least talking about the fact that we sit around a table together and have some good, broad, long-term negotiations so that we do not again find ourselves in a situation where very many people lose their jobs because there is nothing in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102241	Well, there should be no doubt that I find great inspiration in the conciliation which was reached in 2009 and which was broadly based, moreover, under a Conservative Transport Minister. This is a conciliation which has reached the end of this year and which has created stability. I also think that we should ensure this stability towards 2030 and, in fact, also gladly after that time, because we should like to build a mechanism so that we do not again find ourselves in a situation where things expire, so that we have, you might say, an automatic, a roll in the way we work. I think that will suit us all that we will find a framework for • not least because it also provides a planning horizon and security, including for those contractors, municipalities, transport providers and others who depend on the investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102335	Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102339	I am very pleased to hear that the Minister does not just have the idea of making a social democratic reform in this area, and then the rest of us can be invited in and then say 'yes' or 'no', and otherwise it can be sprinkled beyond the mayors of the Socialist Party. I am very pleased that the Minister recognises that we need good and broad conciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102402	However, I must state that there are so many social democratic mayors in the country that it is inevitable that some of them will be happy with some of the investments that will be made by a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102414	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102425	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. For the Social Democratic Party, it is crucial that Denmark gets out safely and safely on the other side of the corona crisis. We must ensure this by addressing the challenges of the crisis in the right order. It is clear that, when we look at the scale of the crisis, there will be a need for the economy to be stimulated and that the economy will be relaunched. This must be done in a sound way through secure investment, where particularly green investment must play a role. With this motion for a resolution, I can say, like the Minister, that this is not the first time we have had this debate in Parliament, but it certainly does not make it any less important. As I have also said in previous readings on this subject, it was during the question debate that we in the Social Democratic Party are always happy to discuss future investments in infrastructure, but that the proposers are now making the same wish as they did during the discussion of F 36 on transport investment, perhaps a little evidence of a lack of creativity or a very, very great determination to get started, one will probably put it out as on the part of the proposers. With this proposal, the proposers want to put the process ahead of content, but the truth is that we in the Social Democratic Party want to have an overview of the Danish economy in the light of corona and at the same time want future investment in infrastructure to be green and efficient. This requires a close couple of climate action and the climate partnerships that recently presented their recommendations. Does this mean that investments in the infrastructure of the future are not important or should not be prioritised? No, certainly not. The recovery of the Danish economy depends on a large number of significant and important investments, and investment in the infrastructure must also play a role here. It is essential that a future investment plan, among other things: Priority is given to public transport and investment in the railways and in cycling. In addition, many people experience congestion on the roads, and this is a problem for the individual citizen and for growth. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also believe that a future infrastructure plan should address the congestion on the Danish roads. It is all areas that are important to improve the infrastructure in Denmark and ensure the green transition, and at the same time such an investment will boost the economy. Social democracy wants a broad and well-worked agreement for future transport investments, and here the consequences of the Corona crisis and the need for green investment are particularly heavy. Many of my colleagues from the parliamentary parties have good ideas, and we have already heard that in the Chamber today. Often this is linked to the individual member's composition. And these are some important inputs that we must all take to the negotiations on a future infrastructure plan. So I look forward to discussing this at that negotiating table, and I look forward to discussing these investments when we know the precise economic and employment consequences of the corona crisis. I am also pleased that, across the Folketing, we continue to agree that investment in infrastructure is important. Finally, on the basis of the importance of future investment in infrastructure being green and playing together with climate action plans and economic considerations in the light of the corona crisis, the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102741	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102747	Thank you for that, President. I share the Social Democrats' desire for a long-term, coherent agreement with broad support. And I also share the wish that we can move into rolling planning so that we keep thinking about four years ahead and adding four more years. So there's a lot we can meet about. However, the rapporteur said that there are many proposals for good projects, and we have heard some of them today, and that is true. But if you really want to seek inspiration for good projects, you have to look at the social democracy traffic issue from the beginning of 2019. For there they are all listed up; all possible road projects in Denmark. But I would like to quote the following: "We will take the lead in giving Denmark a new long-term infrastructure plan and we are ready to reserve at least 70 billion. kr. for new key infrastructure investments. Now it is time for Denmark to have a new long-term plan for our infrastructure. • Who does the rapporteur think has said that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102846	Now we're not gonna stand here and play guessing games, so I'm sure that's true. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen can reveal in the follow-up question here. But I attached myself to one of the first things, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said, and I really appreciate it. This shows something about what good committee work can lead to. We visited Norway in the autumn, and it is quite true that we were presented with the Norwegian model, where you have no such thing as making a plan from 29 January 2009, and then it reaches 10-11 years. No, there they simply take it up every three or four years, and then they look back ten years ahead. The rolling planning will, of course, prevent us from facing a situation which we are facing today where there is no new agreement yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102927	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610102930	But then I have to give the answer to the guessing game. This is in the Social Democratic traffic issue from the beginning of 2019, and it is a demand that something should be done now. That is why it stands in stark contrast to the fact that we cannot even get the government to say whether we are going to get started this year. Is it in 2021? Is it in 2022? And that is why we continue to do so, and it may be that we are a little tired of a resolution being tabled in the wake of the debate on the question. But it is because there were many parties that last time indicated that they are eager to get the negotiations started. So why is Social Democracy not listening?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103005	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103008	I believe that the citizens who are listening to a debate like this have felt that something has happened in the world in recent months. That we've been hit by a corona crisis, nobody could predict. Even the Social Democrats, although we can do much, could not predict it when we made our catalogue for the traffic negotiations back in 2019. And just to make this point, I would like to say that it was a catalogue which showed that we were willing to negotiate. We said that these were some of those that were considered for projects. And it was because we wanted to make sure that they weren't poured out of the door just because the individual project had been forgotten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103044	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103048	I was aware that the rapporteur said that the Socialists would very much like to discuss the premises for a debate on an infrastructure plan. You could say that about what you want. The rest of us may just think it would be better to say that we would like to negotiate. Because discussion doesn't come out of much but bullshit. It is, of course, negotiations that will produce effective results, and it is for this reason that we in the Danish People's Party are annoyed that the government and the Socialists are apparently only going to discuss, but are not negotiating. This is in stark contrast to the fact that in May 2019 it was no more than a year ago the rapporteur's party was out with a gigantic message with everything good from the sea. There wasn't what you didn't want into an infrastructure plan. Now the elections have been won, and then there is nothing wrong with the opposition asking the elementary and precise question: why not use the power that has been won, for example. to set these negotiations in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103155	Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103159	Well, as both the Minister and myself have clearly explained in my rapporteur's speech, the Corona crisis is taking place in the short run, and then there is the important thing, and that is in relation to the huge mandate given to us by the people in last year's elections, namely that we have to take better care of our planet, take better care of our climate. That is why, fortunately, in broad agreement in this House, we have reached an agreement on a 70-percent reduction in CO2 that is also something we need to think about when we need to make an infrastructure agreement. We all know that there is a great deal of CO2 emissions in the transport sector, so that is also one of the factors that has to do with the fact that we have not yet started. Then I would also just like to say again that we came up with our proposal on 29 January 2019, exactly on the 10th anniversary of the 2009 Green Transport Reconciliation, and we did so in order to show our willingness to negotiate. Unfortunately, it became a blue deal where we weren't there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103302	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103306	The rapporteur had just to mention that it was because no one would give up any of the foolishness that still lies in the Train Fund DK. But it is the case that you always mention what you want to mention, and then you skilfully forget everything that is not so fine on the edge. It just does not change the fact that the Socialists have therefore gone to the polls to make some investments in the Danish infrastructure. The rapporteur says it has something to do with having CO2 That is right, but that does not change the fact that there is a maintenance delay both on the rail network, on our motorways and on our roads. In all possible places there is a maintenance delay and it has nothing with CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103345	Thank you! The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103349	After all, there are many things that need to be dealt with in such a future infrastructure agreement. We are fully aware that there is much tribulation in many places. We also know that there is a maintenance delay. We also know that there is not yet a clear overview of how we ensure that the transport sector contributes better to a 70-percent reduction in CO2 These are the balls we have to keep going, and not least this is holding hands under Danish economy. Then I took note of the fact that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party spoke about the Train Foundation DK. After all, it was a settlement that Dansk Folkeparti helped to enter into both the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Transport. If DF thinks there's foolishness in it, is it Billundbane that you think is a foolishness?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103426	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103430	Sir. Thomas Jensen refers to the transport investment project of the Social Democratic Party from January 2019, and when the Social Democratic Party published it, Social Democratic MPs all over the country went out and said: There you see, we Social Democrats want to build this road in our area. Or, we're going to expand this way in our area. Right next to sir. Thomas Jensen sits the chairman of the Danish Parliament, who used the initiative to go to the local press in Horsens and says: There you can see, the Social Democracy will expand the E45 in East Jutland. He said so on the basis of the Social Democracy initiative in January 2019. It was a promise from the President of the Danish Parliament, who was not then President of the Danish Parliament, but who was Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, stating that the Social Democracy, with its proposal, guaranteed that motorways would be built in East Jutland. Now we haven't even gone to the negotiation of building motorways in East Jutland we're going to write soon 2021, and we can't even know when we're going to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103535	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103537	Last week, or last week, I think that was the case, after all, we were discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen around E45. And what I think we're all preoccupied with in here is that there's incredibly great tribulation on the E45. So I will not promise anything, but I have very, very difficult to imagine that we are going to conclude an infrastructure agreement without there being any significant steps at E45, because it is simply one of the very pressed places in Denmark. That is why I also believe that the current President of the Folketing will of course also have a good dialogue on what kind of projects should be given priority in such negotiations. So we cannot equate ourselves with the fact that we have cancelled a whole lot; we can say that we are preparing to hold a debate, and there I can also hear that the Liberal Alliance will bring in the E45. And it's just gratifying that I think all the parties in the Folketing should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103628	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103629	If there were a blue majority here in the Danish Parliament, it would already have been planned to expand, among other things. E45 in 2021, i.e. in 1⁄2 years when we enter the new year, together with seven other projects for a total of 800 million. kr., which was to be used in 2021. For then there was also money for the projects in 2022, 2023 and 2024 etc. Anyway, 800 million. kr. new projects would have been allocated in 2021 according to the Blue Plan, and there would be a majority for that in the Folketing today if the Blues had a majority. How much money will the Social Democracy and Government devote to infrastructure projects in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103709	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103712	I think it is very important that we look back on the parliamentary election that was a year ago; there is far from a blue majority in Denmark. And if it were the case that the former transport minister Ole Birk Olesen was interested in projects that had gone further in planning today than they have come now, then one should have thought of that when infrastructure was negotiated a year and a half ago; then we should have made sure that a broad agreement was reached, where, for example, we would have been able to reach agreement. Social democracy and other parties from our wing had been involved. For then, despite the speech of the electorate, we could have accomplished things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103744	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103748	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur mentioned earlier that it was quite natural that, as a member of parliament, some projects from one's area were of course brought forward locally or regionally and that is why I am glad that the rapporteur managed to say that Fyn has been mentioned several times in the debate here. And I am sure that the rapporteur knows the Funen motorway well. And now it is known that, compared to the Funen motorway project, it is not just a Funen bottleneck, because it is actually also a national bottleneck. And I am sure that the rapporteur is fully aware of this. So my question must be that if we had had a blue majority, the piece south of Odense was also started on the third track. Now the second has been set in motion, so does the rapporteur not agree in principle that when the machines are now in operation, it is quite natural, in principle, that those machines should move on from the stage that is being built now and so on into the next phase and that we should then get as much money as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103846	I am not going to support all kinds of projects here from Parliament's platform. I just want to say that my own experience with the E20 is a lot of rocks and 80-mile drive when something is done. There's a big stretch going on right now, and it's really, really good. And we must take at the negotiating table what we can agree on together. We have also started the West Funen railway in a train fund project in this assembly. So we've definitely been focusing on Funen, including under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103919	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103922	Now we are only gone this year one, you might say, during this parliamentary term, so there is hope still in this parliamentary term. But would it not be a great pity if we reached the next election campaign and the Socialists were to hear from us that we still want to meet for negotiations or something like that? So would it not be good to have such a project, which is as ready as it is now, realized instead of having to face the debate that can then be expected at least in the Funen electoral debate if that does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610103955	I'm very fond of Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen's speech, because it was found that only in the first year, much of what the right has been able to do was to push the government on timing so why we haven't got started on that and that yet. We cannot do everything at once, but, as I have heard from the Minister's speech, and as I have also said in my own speech, we are focused on the need to do something here and we hope that we will have good, broad negotiations where I also hope that the rapporteur of the Left will then bring in some of the things that are presented here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610104029	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610104051	As the Minister for Transport has said, this might perhaps produce some kind of recognizability in relation to today's debate here in the Danish Parliament, because it is true, as the Minister said, that this is not the first time we have had the opportunity to debate the situation of the Danish infrastructure, the situation of investment in maintaining our road networks and also the expansion of our infrastructure both on rail and on asphalt, etc. Nevertheless, in our view it has been imperative for us to take up the debate again in the Folketing, because we have a government which apparently had a policy on which they went to the polls, which was diametrically opposed to what would then be taken as a political line after the elections. We in the Danish People's Party think that the government should be the target of this, and I know that they are making an honest attempt, but that is not good enough, Mr. Minister of Transport. It is not good enough for us to have a large number of municipalities that are waiting, we have regions that are also waiting to be clarified, we have a number of companies that are waiting in relation to the commuting situation of their employees and in relation to regional development, and we have, above all, a lot of citizens who have an expected demand that road investment in Denmark is still being taken care of. This is something on which the government went to the polls. The Social Democrats made a very, very fine and broad presentation for it in early 2019, where you sort of sketched out what elements you would be focusing on if you were given power, as the Social Democrats have observed. Now the elections have been won and, as I said before, congratulations! But that does not change the fact that we must then be able to expect to try to pursue some of the aims that have been set out in connection with the pre-election period. The government hasn't done that. On the contrary, you have crept into flight hiding and have put the entire Danish infrastructure development into hibernation. It is possible that we have been heard saying things earlier here from the parliamentary platform, but that does not change the fact that it is the core of the matter; that is the situation that people are experiencing: there is no capital invested in motorways and bridges and asphalt and rail networks and everything else. That is why the Danish People's Party believes that it is appropriate that we continue to insist that the government should then recover from being able to call for negotiations as well. We have just seen the Social Democrats' rapporteur in this area, Mr President. Thomas Jensen, say that the Socialists would like to discuss. Well, what's the point of discussing? Yes, there will be words, words, words, and it is very enjoyable, but it just doesn't give any action, and it doesn't give any activities; it doesn't bring any improvement. That is why it is important that we get the negotiations going. We have heard both the Socialist rapporteur and the Socialist Minister for Transport say again and again: well, it is Corona; we simply have to wait because of Corona. One only has to tell you that this view that you want to put it all in hibernation was also adopted by the government before the corona had even been established last year. Nevertheless, the same approach has been chosen. I think it is a little poor to use an argument, an excuse that has come after you have chosen to pack your own electoral vows far, far away, under the covers. They are simply so far away that they cannot be seen at all, and the government is simply saying that we have to wait. We cannot even know what year we are going to negotiate infrastructure plans in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party do not think that you can be familiar with the kingdom. We think it is unfavorable, so to speak, for all the stakeholders in Denmark, and that is why we will of course insist that the government convene these negotiations, the sooner, the better. At the very least, the Minister for Transport should have shown a great deal of sympathy with the part of this resolution which, after all, has the short-term glasses on, in relation to precisely making supportive measures, because we can see that the corona crisis has resulted in consequences for people who have been sent home from their practical work. There are asphalt works, there are bridges, there is work on noise reducing measures and all sorts of other initiatives that could easily have been applied. Unfortunately, the government does not want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610104600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that's why we can move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610104610	Just as a few weeks ago, I would like to thank the bourgeois parties for raising this debate, because I take it as an expression of the impatientness, like the Radical Left, to negotiate these transport investments. But I also take this as an expression of the fact that the bourgeois parties would like to be part of a broad agreement with both my own party, the government and the left parties, and I hope that much can be done in the near future, rather today than tomorrow, if it is up to us. We in the Radical Left naturally find that something is being done about the CO2 emissions of transport that the authors of the motion for a resolution are not saying much about in this motion for a resolution calling for negotiations. For us, it is very much about the buses, trucks, cars, trains, ferries, ships, aircraft, etc. that are in Denmark, moving on to renewable energy. And this is not just about the type of infrastructure you build, but about whether, for example, you dare to use the tax instrument to promote different vehicles and aircraft etc. on renewable energy. There we find it strange that, in the last period here in the Folketing, both the bourgeois side and the current government, in other words the Social Democratic Party, could gather around three times to lighten the tax on petrol and diesel vehicles, even though both parties were campaigning on how many cars on renewable energy we should have. It is a little strange, then, that hundreds of millions of people are spent every year giving tax cuts to those cars that you are not. That is one of the discussions we would like to have. Should there not be some reform of the tax system? In the same way last week we saw a number of actors come together to make fuel for aircraft that are on renewable energy. At the same time, there is a recommendation from the industry that you could put a tax on aircraft which could then finance that you could have some of this fuel made. That is also one of the things we would like to discuss. Because we do not see for ourselves that, as in the previous government, an infrastructure agreement is being drawn up which does not mention climate at all or which contains any initiatives in relation to CO2 so that is one of the things we would like to have with us. And we also think that it is important to have a broad settlement on this issue, so that people who have to invest in renewable energy know that there is a business case for many years to come because there has been a broad settlement. Then, of course, we would also very much like to have a broad agreement negotiated at long last after many years of standstill in the field of infrastructure, so that we can say to the citizens, the companies, the municipalities, that is, all the stakeholders who contact us in these months and would like to have an infrastructure project in place in exactly their area, that now there is a very broad majority who have decided that these are the things that are being built for the next 10 years. I very much hope that this can be achieved and, as I said, quite quickly. I have some doubts about how to land this proposal, because it is very easy to vote in favour and say that negotiations must be convened. But if the Social Democratic Party has not decided to want something, it will be a little strange meetings. It may be that the coffee and cake are good in the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Finance, but if there is no willingness to make a deal, then the meetings will be a little waste of time. That is why I hope that we can write some report in committee, where we all say that we want to get started. For then we will also make that clear to both citizens and, above all, to our colleagues in the parties. I think that could be a solution to that. In order to vote through here in the Danish Parliament that we should hold meetings, I do not think much sense is made, especially all the time that we are almost always at meetings of the Ministry of Transport on various matters. So it's not because it's meetings that are missing. But there is a lack of will to make this broad settlement, and I hope that everyone will join in this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105034	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105041	Thank you, President. I fully agree with Mr. Andreas Steenberg in that coffee is always good and that it is cozy, especially if there are tree trunks for the coffee, it is going really well. But something should also come out of it. We are in complete agreement on this. But I would like to sign for what I see as a support for us to get started with the negotiations. After all, we all know that traffic negotiations in particular are long-term. It is not because there is evil will, but because it simply takes a long time to get into depth and matter, and therefore I am glad that we are getting started. I would also like to sign for what Mr. Andreas Steenberg said about the climate action plan. Because I think it is extremely important that the negotiations we must have on infrastructure should, of course, be closely coordinated with what needs to be done on the rails and on the roads. That is why there is a close connection between those things. So I would like to sign for the reports that have been made here and welcome the fact that we are trying to land this here with a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105135	There were not a lot of questions in it, but I can then sign the other way, and it may even be that we can settle here on Wednesday morning. That could be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105143	No one else has asked for brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg and proceed to Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105157	I think it's a little funny and a little cozy that we can get a heated discussion out of something we actually agree on, as I hear it, and I think it's really nice. After all, we all agree that we need to get something done about these investments in transport infrastructure. Most people said that last time we had this discussion, and that, as I understand the government, is what you want. So that's good. The fact that we are taking the trip again is all right with me, but I really think we should try to land it here in committee with a report where we will be a little more in agreement on what is going to happen. Because there are obvious obstacles, and now the Left has sat in government and is aware of the challenges facing the Ministry of Finance, and it may well be that I think the Minister of Transport can be extremely strenuous, but I think that if I were the Financial Rapporteur I would have it even more strained. And I think that we should be open about that, and I think that we are helping the Minister of Transport to meet his challenges with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Nicolai Wammen. At least the SF would like to be a part of that. But I don't think we're gonna get anything out of, a little like Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg said just to set a series of meetings in motion if you are not ready from the government, and I think the Left understands that too. So I think we should talk a little about it in committee and see if we can get a little closer, but perhaps without setting something in motion that is of no use, because the Social Democracy is not there yet and the Ministry of Finance is not there at all. But otherwise there is full support from the SF for us to move forward some investments to mitigate the consequences of the corona crisis. We really want to take part in this, and we think it is extremely important that it should be green investment, and now I noted in the comments on the original resolution that we were very interested in these road investments when we reached the major infrastructure plan agreement. I could see that, in the light of the climate crisis and what traffic researchers are saying about congestion and how to deal with such a problem, we might have started to look at tools that were something other than just the expansion of motorways. But we can do that by then. I just think it is important that we start by recognising that we are quite agreed that something has to happen, and let us then take it in a joint report and hopefully in committee a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105427	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105433	I think it is interesting if the SF agrees with the blue parties that we should now sit together and talk about an investment plan for the transport infrastructure. The Minister for Transport does not agree, so the fact that we all agree on this is not true. However, the SF seems to agree with the blue parties that we should do so now. Now that we can see that the Minister of Transport will not call for negotiations and, at the same time, know that he is a minister in a minority government, we could actually do those negotiations without the Minister of Transport. I just want to hear this: if we blue parties now call for negotiations because we almost all, apart from the Minister for Transport, agree that we should have those negotiations, would the SF come and talk transport infrastructure investments with the blue parties? We could then form a majority outside the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105532	I just get so terribly annoyed when people don't hear what I'm saying. I think sir... Ole Birk Olesen needs to check if he's got something in his ears. For what the SF actually said was that we agreed that we should move forward some investments, and we agreed that this could be done quickly, but I did not say anything about having to sit down here on Wednesday morning and do so. I said, in fact, that I understand that there is a problem with the Ministry of Finance which stands a little in the way, and I said that the Left, which is one of the proposers, in that they have been in government, must also know how heavy it is to dance with the office of the Ministry of Finance. So I think we should sit down in committee and find a common wording in a report, in that we all agree on the positive aspects of the advance of investment. But if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would like to invite SF for a cup of coffee in his office after this debate in the Chamber, so I would very much like to come. I think maybe just that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen must point a little more ears than what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105625	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105628	Apparently, I heard wrong there. Because I thought, naive as I am, that when SF thinks that it is time to make investments in transport infrastructure quickly, it led, as it did, to the fact that, before the investments were launched, a debate was held on those investments. However, I understand that we must launch investment quickly, but do not get started quickly in negotiating it. That is the SF's point of view. It's a rather awkward point of view, you might say, but if it works for SF's rhetoric and for being a tinkering lamb's tail for the government, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105703	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105706	But again: I simply do not understand how Mr. Ole Birk Olesen comes up with these a little weird wordings. I think that most parties think it is appropriate to negotiate something before taking decisions on it, so of course the SF also thinks so. What we have just said is that we can see that there are some challenges before we can reach a real debate, and we will have to respect that when the Minister says so, and then help him to overcome those challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105727	We'll keep a little distance down here in the hall, but now it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105738	Yeah, we'll keep our distance, but we're usually close to the Conservatives. Thank you to the SF rapporteur for a good speech. Mrs Valentina Berthelsen also said that she is impatient to get the negotiations under way. I understand that because we know they are taking a long time and we must do it well and thoroughly. I also agree that, of course, the government must have a basis for negotiation. Otherwise it doesn't really make sense to meet if you don't know what you're dealing with. This applies to an economic framework, a negotiating framework, and I suppose that includes some objectives that we must achieve. I think we are very much in agreement on these, including the need to pave the way for green transport. And then it requires that we have a well-worked basis for decision-making, some projects that have been worked through. So does Mrs Valentina Berthelsen agree that the financial framework is in place? We have the Minister for Finance's word for that. The Corona crisis does not mean that the money we have for investment, public investment, is suddenly gone. They are thus intact and thus we have the money in place. It just requires the government to have the will to drop them off for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105838	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105841	Now there are two things in this proposal that have been put forward. There is both an advance, and then there is a large infrastructure plan, and it gets muddy a little bit together. It is true that the Minister for Finance has said that the financial framework is as it should be, but when we talk about the advance of investment, it is not a pre-defined framework, and I think we will have to respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105902	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105903	I totally agree with that. I would like to sign once again that we can hopefully land it here with a report and a sensible text in committee. I fully understand that if we now imagine that we have a framework of 112 billion. kr., then we need to find out how much of it can be brought forward with benefit. Is that 2 billion? kr., it's 3 billion. kr., we'll get started quickly? I fully agree with that, but could the SF, on that premise, not see itself in that we are trying to meet to say to the government: let's get this going now, by autumn at the latest. And then we'll see how much we can move forward. It is clear that there must be time to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105938	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610105940	Yes, but it is a pity that the motion for a resolution has been drawn up as it has been, because these are two different things we are actually trying to talk about at the same time. I think that we can best resolve this with a joint report in committee, in which we help the Minister of Finance to come a little closer to when we can get things started, but still with respect for the fact that when we talk about the financial framework for transport investment, there are two different things: whether it is progress we are talking about or whether it is the major infrastructure plan that we hope will soon be able to negotiate. There I think it is quite right that the Minister for Finance would prefer to have an overview of what is really good to do with, based on what would be appropriate according to his officials on top of corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks, and that is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr McMillan-Scott. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110031	Thank you. We are almost tempted to say: here we are again! I would say that this is a veritable, I think, storm on the part of the opposition against the government. We have had the question No. F 36, which all the bourgeois parties were behind, we have had motion for a resolution No. B-96, by the Liberal Alliance, we have had motion for a resolution No. B 73, by the Left, and now we have a new motion for a resolution from the same parties who were behind the question No. F 36. It has to be said that, on the whole, the same problem and the same content are so repeated, but of course with a slightly different angle on it. However, it is about flagging the traffic agreement between the previous government and DF from last year and then criticising Social Democracy with emphasis on the social democratic plan and why it is not being implemented. Even a very, very specific motion for a resolution which we discussed yesterday, No. B 173, whether the double track between Tinglev and Padborg was dedicated to this storm race, as I call it, against the government, as half of the comments on the double track were about this VLAK plan slash DF plan and the demand for a date for advance. This also applies to this motion for a resolution, which is more or less the fourth time that we are trying to discuss these matters in a month. One might ask, rather polemically, whether the opposition, in other words the bourgeois parties, believes that we are slow. For me, the bourgeois message has come in. This is about the VLAK plan, and it was first and foremost a motorway plan, because it is about several motorways, both new motorways and the extension of existing motorways. We think this is a wrong answer to both the problems of congestion and climate change. So, for that reason alone, perhaps one should say on the part of the Enhedslisten that we are not really in a hurry to get started on these negotiations if it ends with this. And we can fear that, because if we then see the socialist plan, to which reference is made all the time, it is very similar to the bourgeois plan, and then we could fear that it was all about motorways, and then we are not so interested. But there should now be no doubt that we are also impatient in the Enhedslisten to get started, but we will then just deliver what we call the right answers, and this is an expansion of public transport and cyclism, and not least of the railways, which we know to a great extent are needy, and I can only refer here to the service review in this regard. Decades of under-priority and lack of investment have made it possible for us today to have a railway which is almost on the verge of collapse. And our priorities in relation, for example, to: The advance would be to advance the West Funen railway and to get started renovating the Eastern railway with a shiny solution, knowing that it is of course the region that has to deal with it, but we believe that the region here needs help, and there I think we should find out something together. After all, we have a lot, a lot of emphasis on bicycle paths and, in this context, also some intersections, etc., and there we have actually received a very, very long list from the Road Directorate of projects which are immediately feasible and which are more or less prepared and which can be done immediately. There is A11 in Tønder Municipality, which is at Vordingborg etc., and there are at Randers, there are Faaborg-Midtfyn, there is Næstved-Ringsted, there are really, very many places that are right, very many bicycle path projects, so there we think we could get started immediately, and we would really like to be involved in that. There are projects for 332.5 million. kr. Just on this list, so we think we should get started on that. We really believe that the Minister of Transport is eager to get started, and that is why we should say that our impatience should perhaps, as others have pointed out, be directed at the Minister of Finance, and we would like to help the Minister of Transport to press on with the Minister of Finance. We also choose to believe that the Minister of Transport is actually pushing. We also see that there is a link between crisis packages and the climate action plan and the actual infrastructure negotiations, but it also shows just how complicated it is, because the climate action plan is very much also about taxation and everything else. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has this morning sent a proposal for a report around, and I would like to comment on that very quickly. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It will also be very short, but now the President takes my time. In fact, we think this is a sensible proposal, and we would like to try to talk about it a little bit. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110557	I would like to say that the President does not take any time, because when the President gets up, it is because the speaking time has been exceeded. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110607	Sir. Henning Hyllested likes to produce it in such a way that bourgeois parties only set aside money for roads and will not give money for bike paths, railways etc. That is not true, and I can say specifically that the plan that we presented in March 2019 provided for 100 million in 2021. kr. for new cycle paths and 100 million. kr. to increase the maintenance of the railway • 100 million. kr. for several cycle paths, 100 million. kr. to increase maintenance of the railway. This will not happen in 2021 with the new red majority in the Folketing. No 100 million will be spent. kr. extra on bike paths and no 100 million will be spent. kr. more at the maintenance of the railway, because the red parties in the Folketing and the government have not called for negotiations with the government. So Enhedslisten is helping us to build bike paths later and later to increase the maintenance of the railroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110712	I do not agree with that. In fact, I believe that we are going to start these negotiations. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there is an immediate link with the negotiations on the climate action plan, which of course makes it extra complicated. But I'm sure we're actually gonna get these negotiations started. As I said, we are also impatient, but I am also full of confidence that we will actually get started on this. That is why I believe that some of these bicycle path projects are being brought forward, as I have pointed out. After all, these are projects which are immediately realized, and if we decide on them in the autumn, then I believe that we will get them started in good time. Everything has its time, and it is clear that we must be ready. And, of course, a new situation has arisen with this corona crisis that we have been through and with the economic crisis that is now following. I understand that, in spite of everything, we in the government need to give serious thought to the order in which we take this. However, as I have said, there is a link between the climate action plan, the infrastructure negotiations and crisis packages, and I believe that we will be in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110818	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110819	Does this mean that the Enhedslisten would like to put its head on the block and recognise that if there are no negotiations on an investment plan this autumn, so that new projects can start in 2021, then the promise that you will have more cycle paths and more maintenance of the railroad that was made in the election campaign has been abandoned? The blue parties had bicycle paths on the agenda and had 100 million. kr. to it in 2021 and the blue lots had increased maintenance of the railway by 100 million. kr. on the agenda for 2021. But if you in the red parties don't get to start negotiations so we can do it in 2021, you've failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110902	The blue parties had first and foremost a strip of highways and it is clear that it is certainly not the priority of Enhedslisten. So that's also what to say: "A problem that we need to tackle in the Enhedslisten and that we need to tackle in relation to the government. Because, as I also said, the Blue Investment Plan was very consistent with the Social Democratic catalogue as it was presented. It is clear that there are, of course, some discussions with the Social Democratic Party that we should try to keep ourselves out of this. This also raises a number of issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610110944	Thank you. I'd like to sign for Henning Hyllested to meet us with an outstretched hand. I sense that the Enhedslisten is also prepared for us to try to land a report, so we have to work on that in committee. Thank you. Then I would like to correct two misunderstandings. First of all, we're not trying to run a race against the government. In other words, we recognise that we have had a choice and that we now have a period ahead of us, where we at least have the government we have so far, so it is not a storm race, but it is of course an attempt to shout that we need to get started here with some negotiations, and I sense some support for that from the Enhedslisten. Secondly, there is the misunderstanding that we will only invest in roads. Only yesterday we dealt with a motion for a resolution which was actually about a railway which the Red Parties forgot about when they made the Train Fund DK, but we are therefore interested in other things than roads, not least bicycle paths, noise control, road safety and everything else. So it is a balanced approach that we have to it. Can Henning Hyllested confirm that Enhedslisten is ready to try to land this with a report where we call on the government to get us started by the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111051	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111052	Yes, he can confirm that, and that's what I didn't really have time to elaborate. In fact, we think that the text of the report, which Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has suggested, the far along the way is quite reasonable. One can discuss the last paragraph, which states that the negotiations will start in October. Perhaps we could imagine saying there is at least a plan for these negotiations. However, as I say, we still have an expectation that we will get started, because we cannot imagine starting the action plan for transport in the context of the climate negotiations without allowing it to run over in negotiations on infrastructure at all. There's an immediate connection. We acknowledge that, and that's why we have to get started, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111137	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111138	Thank you. I would just like to correct it because it actually says that it should be in autumn 2020 and not October, and the autumn I define as September through November, and it is too decent to try to give the government some room for manoeuvre, but it is also a signal that we would like to have something in place that we can get into the budget law for 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111200	Okay, then it says it's gonna be in the fall. It's fine. As I said, we have a clear expectation that we will get started on this. And I have to repeat what I said yesterday when we discussed this aspect of this motion for a resolution, namely that I cannot see anything other than the fact that the Minister of Transport is also eager to get started. However, we have a unified government and we have a finance minister with whom, if I may say so, we must also get in place, and I think we should help the Minister of Transport with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111227	I have been informed that it is Carsten Kissmeyer for a brief comment, but that is not really true. So I think we should thank the rapporteur. And then it's Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111243	Thank you very much, sir. President. In the Conservative People's Party, we are of course very concerned about the slowdown in the development of Danish infrastructure. We have always been a society that has tried to look ahead and develop precisely in this area, and we have always endeavoured to safeguard our good employees in the road, construction and asphalt industries. Now there are just no more projects left in the current plan. People have been sacked in the industry because there have been no projects in the pipeline, and unfortunately it does not seem that new projects will come before we have a new infrastructure agreement, and that is why it is so important to get it in place. Even the government's friends, 3F, have been out criticizing the government for not having any plans in the pipeline, and I just have to admit that when I look at our minister, I don't find him • unlike my colleague from the SF • strenuous in any way. On the contrary, I believe that our minister is exactly the right minister in this area, and I am absolutely sure that when he goes to the Minister for Finance in a moment, he will easily be able to click the mandate home, which allows us to negotiate before the Minister is an honorary man. We Danes are waiting in line for somewhere between 17-24 billion. kr a year on the Danish roads. It costs our companies an enormous amount of money, and when I look around the Chamber today and look at my colleagues from the Transport Committee and, above all, our minister, I know that there is a great deal of intelligence in the room, which is why I hardly need to mention where that bill ends. Last but not least, we have a Prime Minister who likes to call himself the Prime Minister of the children, and from this I should just like to mention that welfare is also to be able to pick up his children on time. That is why it is high time that we started negotiating in this important area and had some good, broad, long agreements that I would actually say we are all interested in. I was really, really happy when I heard my colleague from Enhedslisten support a little about this report that has been made, and we look forward very much to getting it cleaned off so that we can get a good report in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111503	No brief remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111520	I would just like to start by saying that if a student had spoken to me like that when I was a teacher, I would probably have asked first: what do you want to achieve? But that aside, 'cause I'm pretty sure I know that. But infrastructure is important. After all, infrastructure is what binds the country together, strengthens mobility and cohesion, contributes to growth and prosperity. When you stand here as fairly new, as I do, it is really strange to see that there is in fact a majority for the vast majority of sensible projects in terms of infrastructure investment. Instead of making an agreement or at least starting some negotiations on it and securing the projects that will benefit Denmark and for which there is actually a majority, you put the blame back and forth. We can quickly agree that it was a pity that a broad agreement was not already negotiated in the last period and that a proposal was made just five minutes at midnight. At that time, the majority was blue and this would have given a significantly better starting point for an agreement. Now we have a blood-red majority here today, and unfortunately that will also have consequences for the investments that are coming. But now we must get to work. We must move away from the policy of parishioners in the transport sector and instead ensure a sensible, long-term plan, preferably by a broad majority. In the new citizens we want more things from the future agreement, hopefully. We have said this before, and we say it again, namely that we want full transport equality. It should not be more expensive to sail 1 km than to drive 1 km. We need to make up for the user fee on the Storebælt Bridge and stop using it as a state overdraft. Nor do we want local payment walls that separate municipalities and impede mobility and harm both families and businesses, as has been seen with Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund. Infrastructure should not be a hidden growth-retardant tax project. We want to invest in the road network, and here we can mention a lot of good projects around the country: the Hillerød motorway, which I mentioned before, the Frederikssund motorway, the E45, all the way to the border, the Næstved-Rønnede and the third Limfjord connection, to name but a few. Above all, however, we must get the negotiations under way. I could hear that the Radical Left wanted more taxes, including on our aircraft. Of course, we do not think so. We certainly do not need any more charges. We need fewer charges and lower charges. However, as I said in my introduction, there is, in fact, for the most part a majority if, instead of discussing back and forth, we would simply call for these negotiations. No more bad excuses. Let's just get started. That would be my request to the Minister for Transport: let us now get to work on these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610111836	With the change of government, the Danes received an abrupt awakening in relation to our transport infrastructure in Denmark. In the election campaign they had heard all parties say that transport infrastructure was extremely important; they had heard the blue parties present a concrete plan of 112 billion. kr.; they had heard the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and Social Democratic MEPs and transport rapporteurs everywhere say that they wanted to say about the same thing as the blue parties. But a few weeks after the elections were over and the new government was appointed, the Danes were told by the new Transport Minister that all previous plans and promises had simply been taken off the table. Now a blank canvas would be started, as the newly appointed minister said. And you couldn't count on anything anymore. This enabled the Danes to see that they are already missing out in 2021 on a number of good projects that the blue parties wanted to implement and which the Social Democrats promised in the election campaign that they would also implement. It is within a wide range of transport infrastructure investments and I can list them. We would start building bike paths already in 2021 for 100 million. kr. We would start fighting noise for 100 million. kr. in 2021. We wanted to increase the maintenance of the railroad by 100 million. kr. in 2021. We wanted to extend the E45 from Aarhus Syd to Aarhus Nord. We wanted to expand the E20/E45 at Kolding. We wanted to expand the E20 south of Odense. We wanted to increase capacity on Motorring 3. We wanted to expand the Hillerød motorway from Motorring 3 to Ring 4. We wanted to expand route 15 from Ringkøbing to Herning. We wanted to expand the E55 from the South Motorway to Nykøbing Falster. And we wanted to expand route 40 from Ålbæk to Skagen. This is all something we wanted to start with in 2021. In total, the projects in 2021 are for 800 million. kr. Now we will soon be entering 2021, and in just over a month's time the government will present its proposal for a Finance Act, and the proposal for a Finance Act cannot include the setting-off of money for a new investment plan, because negotiations on a new investment plan have not been called for. So since negotiations have not been convened on how much money will be spent in 2021 on infrastructure investments and there have been no negotiations on how the money will be spent in 2021 for infrastructure investments, we have to assume that the government has simply set aside zero kroner on its 2021 Finance Act for infrastructure investments. This would then be the second Finance Act with the current Minister for Transport, where there is no penny spent on infrastructure investment, even though we have just gone through an election campaign a year ago, when the Social Democrats said that it would be as much as the blue parties in relation to infrastructure. I am not one of those who believe that a country's economy can be saved by pumping out public crowns, nor for investment. However, I do not think it is beneficial for anyone that we should even stop with the investments that we should make in 2021. It is not beneficial in terms of the projects themselves and the citizens who are currently stuck in traffic or driving slowly in traffic, but it is also not beneficial for the economy that we have such a stop-and-go policy where you spend a lot of money for a few years, and then you completely stop spending money. If we are to have the optimal investment outlet for the transport infrastructure in Denmark, we should preferably have a level investment level so that some employees can be kept in the industry so that you do not have to fire and hire and hire and hire. So I would like to urge the Minister of Transport very strongly, and that is also what we are doing with this motion for a resolution to call for negotiations on the investments in the transport infrastructure to be made by 2021. The demand must be that we make at least the investments on which the Social Democratic Party was elected and which are similar to what the blue parties were going to vote on, and that is to say the projects that I have listed here from the platform. Otherwise, at least there are a lot of voters all over the country who have been cheated by the Social Democrats and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610112342	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610112359	Thank you for that, President. As rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, I am delighted with the debate we have had here today. It may be that you think it sounds like a repetition and would warn against it, but sometimes it is good to have things repeated, especially because today's debate has shown that we are beginning to gather together on some things that we hope we will be able to agree on in the Committee on Transport afterwards. But I think that, for the sake of the many listeners, I would just like to outline that this starts with the VLAK government in March 2019 entering into an agreement with the Danish People's Party on a comprehensive investment plan towards 2030, where we set aside just under 113 billion. kr. to develop the infrastructure. It was an ambitious, necessary and timely agreement that would ensure Danes better mobility, less congestion, a more coherent country with development in all parts of the country as well as safer traffic. Furthermore, the agreement paved the way for future green transport, including by train, buses, lorries and passenger cars, on the premise that this should be on the rails of the future, the roads of the future. It's gonna be green. According to the agreement, a number of important projects were to be built as early as 2021. Prior to this agreement, at the beginning of 2019, the Social Democratic Party presented a comprehensive political proposal on traffic investments listing virtually all road projects across the country. It is therefore no wonder that the Social Democrats chose to praise the Blue Transport Agreement when we made it in March last year. And up to the parliamentary elections in June 2019 the Social Democratic Party strongly advocated large-scale transport investments, not least in the road network across the country. However, after the elections, the new government chose to tear up the previous government's agreement, and the Prime Minister announced subsequently back in January 2020 that traffic infrastructure is now downgraded and that the government will not set a date for negotiations on investment in the transport infrastructure to begin. It has so disappointed many citizens, municipalities, companies and trade unions, and it has created a totally unnecessary uncertainty across the country, and that is the impasse we have to overcome, and so we must therefore be excused for going hard on this, not as a storm race against the government, but in an attempt to move forward in something that we actually agree on. In addition, in the wake of the corona crisis, we have had a need to get new steam on the Danish boilers. There is a need for initiatives that can hold hands under the Danish economy and jobs, and of course it is obvious to look at the infrastructure on which we are going to spend money anyway, and then advance some of those things. Several have pointed to projects that we can quickly launch: bicycle paths, noise protection and other things. Already at the beginning of 2020 in April, the Left proposed that we bring forward government investment for a considerable amount of billions. It is the President of the Left who is behind it, and we still think so, and we hope that it is something that will be on the agenda of the government very quickly. Today there has been a cry from a large number of mayors across the country, red and blue, calling for us to get these investments under way, and this is an expression of due diligence and understandable frustration on the part of these mayors. But the government has so far refused to call parties for negotiations, and I do not think there are any arguments for this. There are no corona arguments. On the contrary, it advocates that we start negotiating, that we have had a corona crisis and that our infrastructure investment framework is intact. According to the Minister for Finance, the overall state investment framework has not been tampered with, and that is why it is a matter of deciding that we are putting this framework into a master plan until 2030, so that we have a basis for negotiation. There I would like to give an outstretched hand to the Social Democratic Party, which has, of course, suggested that when we make this coherent long-term agreement, we should start thinking in rolling planning, and we are fully in favour of that. It is one of the common denominators that brings us together, but let us get on with it. That is simply the reason for this well-intentioned motion for a resolution, which kindly but certainly requires the government to abandon its austerity and call for negotiations on transport investment. It is, of course, negotiations that can be conducted in parallel with the climate negotiations with great benefit, because this is all connected. Negotiations on infrastructure are about what kind of rails they are, what kind of roads they are, what other infrastructure things we need to invest in, and climate negotiations are about what should be running on them, and the two things are closely linked and can therefore run in parallel with each other with great benefit. So that is our appeal here today. I would like to sign, not least to the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF, so that they also come with the same tones. Let's get started. We know that these will be lengthy negotiations. There are many things we need to do in depth, and that is why we need to get started here after the summer break with these negotiations. I also believe that the government is listening to this, and I also believe that the Minister of Transport would like to get started and hope that the government will help to give a mandate for this. At any rate, this is something that is pressing, and it is something where there is a lot of pressure from all over the country to get started. I have some articles here in which trade unions are calling for people to be dismissed, among other things. The construction industry, and it is not very wise for people to be fired when we need to build these things. So that's why it speaks to get started. We are launching all the things in the world at the moment, necessary things, in the wake of the corona, and a great deal of money is being spent at the moment. So why can we not get started discussing how we spend the money that we know we are going to spend on infrastructure anyway, because it is necessary for our country, and because a good infrastructure helps to make Denmark richer, because we save time and we save money? So that's why let's get started. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it's been good that we got this second round, if I may say so, because it's brought us closer, all of us, I actually feel. And I think we can land it here in a very good way in the Committee on Transport with a report, not against the government, because that is absolutely not how it should be perceived. This should be seen as a well-intentioned aid to this, because we know that we have to move on together about these things, and the people expect this from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610113047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is the end of the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament is today at 2 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130002	The meeting is open. I have to inform you that I have a question to put to you. 3 (S 1379) to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rosa Lund (EL), is deleted at the request of the co-author himself. Questions Nos 4 and 5 (S 1340 and S 1341 by Michael Aastrup Jensen (V)) to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities will be removed from the agenda at the request of the author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that I have a question to put to you. 8 (S 1359) to the Minister of Justice and to Question No 8 (S 1359) to the Minister of Justice. 26 (S 1360) to the Minister for Transport, Martin Geertsen (V), is deleted at the request of the co-author himself. I should also like to inform you that Mrs Krarup (DF), on question No. 29 (S 1324) to the Minister for Children and Education. I should also like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 36 (S 1375), No 37 (S 1367) and No 38 (S 1374) to the Minister for Education and Research of Katrine Robsøe (RV), Ulla Tørnæs (V) and Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) respectively, are deleted at the request of the authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130104	The first question has been put to the Minister for Finance, and that has been asked by Mr Arndt. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130116	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130119	Thank you, President. Can the Minister explain what the government intends to do by the summer to increase demand in the Danish economy in this time of crisis by covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130131	Thank you for the question from Mr. Marcus Knuth. The government is deeply concerned and is working hard to get Denmark through the economic side of the covid-19 crisis, and that is also why we, among other things. in collaboration with the author's party, has made relief packages as we were in the process of shutting Denmark down partially. Fortunately, we are now opening up again, and in the wake of that we have also made agreements with a number of parties, among others. in relation to the Landsbygningsfonden, and that we there can get the wheels going. We have done so in relation to having young people in education, and we have also just made agreements with both municipalities and regions, so that they can create larger works than they would normally be able to do, because it is also good for our industry and for the construction industry. Next to that, I'm gonna meet with mr. Marcus Knuth's party tomorrow, where we will also have the opportunity to discuss what can be done when we phase out the aid packages and what could then be of initiatives that can help stimulate the economy. The government, as we have also explained, will come up with initiatives before the summer recess, so that we can also help keep the wheels moving in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130257	Thank you. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would say: let us open the way for the payment of the frozen holiday money. That is what we Conservatives have said several times. We would then have been able to say thank you for the questions and have been able to go our separate ways. But that is why, unfortunately, I have to ask a little further. I was glad that yesterday the Prime Minister opened up to my party chairman the possibility of paying the frozen holiday money. Today is 10 June, and we are approaching the summer holidays, so I think it would be fair to the Danes to let them have the expectation that this is something the government is actually going to do. There are many people who are planning summer holidays right now... do you have to go to Germany, or do you have to rent a summer house at the North Sea? We have heard that before, but instead of keeping the Danes waiting: why not come up with the good plan today instead of tomorrow or the day after?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130359	It is quite true that yesterday there was a very good and constructive exchange of words between the Prime Minister and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party, who was concerned with one of the tools that both the Conservative People's Party and the government have seen, namely the holiday money, and whether they can be used in one way or another to stimulate the economy as well. This is one of the tools that the government is looking at, and I am quite sure that it is also one of the tools that we will be talking to, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen and perhaps Mr. Poulsen too. Marcus Knuth in the morning, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130445	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130446	I am sure the Minister for Finance knows the famous expression from Margaret Thatcher that the problem with socialism is that at some point you run out of other people's money. The government's support party, Enhedslisten, has been out to say that you have to burn 30 billion. kr. on cheques for the Danes, whom Enhedslisten likes, but it will be to collect money from the Danes. In other words, the frozen holiday money is the Danes' own money, which is why we do not think it is such a difficult decision. We just think that you should send that message to the Danes now: The average employee gets what amounts to about 25,000 DKK. After baby. Why wait for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130525	We would like to see things in a whole, while at the same time looking at how we can phase out the relief packages that we made when we were going to shut Denmark down in part. Now we are opening up Denmark, and it must also be seen in the context of what initiatives we take to support the economy, so that not just one piece is taken out and discussed, but that we see things in a context. I look forward to doing that, including with the Conservative People's Party, tomorrow, and I think that we can hopefully have a broad agreement between the parliamentary parties within a short period of time, and I would very much like to see both the Conservative People's Party and the government participating.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130613	Sir. Marcus Knuth for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130614	I am glad to hear that, because I think that is what the Danes are waiting for. If I may move on to a slightly different subject, I will mention the many companies that are in danger of going bankrupt. An analysis shows that more than 4,000 risks going bankrupt, and the key thing is increased liquidity and to ease the pressure on companies. There we say from the Conservative People's Party that if we can relax corporate tax, we will also ease the burden, and we will make Denmark more attractive for foreign companies to come to. Is this something that the Minister of Finance also has in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130649	It is absolutely true that one of the challenges Danish companies face in the crisis is liquidity, and that is also why we in the aid packages we have made, among other things. has made a postponement of VAT payments and other payments. The recommendations that we have received from the three economic experts who have submitted their proposals on how to phase out the aid packages also include the fact that we continue to pay attention to the liquidity challenge for Danish companies. This can then be resolved in different ways, and I think that some very sensible proposals have been made by the three economists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130723	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Marcus Knuth. The question has been answered. The next question has been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130734	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130737	Thank you. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister the following question: can the Foreign Minister explain the logic that many thousands of Danes cannot travel to Rhodes this summer, for example, where the pressure of covid-19 is much lower than in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130754	Thank you, and thank you to the author. We have based summer travel guides on three criteria. Firstly, there is a precautionary principle: we want to prevent Danish travellers from bringing back infection to Denmark. Secondly, there is the risk of infection for Danish travellers. And thirdly, there are local restrictions abroad that you travel to. Against this background, we have decided that travel guides to Germany, Iceland and Norway will be relaxed from 15 June. We need to proceed in a controlled manner. It is not just about the pressure of infection where we relax; it is also about the total number of travellers that can be expected. That is why we are not opening our travel instructions to Greece. As things stand right now, we advise against all unnecessary journeys to the rest of Europe and the world until 31 August. Of course, we want to return as soon as possible to a normal state where you can travel freely and, as you know, we have made a phased opening of Denmark. We've been able to move things forward a couple of times and make it faster. It is my hope that we will also be able to move forward more quickly when it comes to facilitating travel advice. We only advise against unnecessary travel as long as it is relevant. But we still have a precautionary principle. I am in close dialogue with several of my ministerial colleagues, of course from other countries, neighbouring countries, etc., and the issue of travel guides is being discussed within the European Union. The way in which travel guides are reopened is different from one European country to another. For example: Germany seems to want to relax travel guides a little wider for the EU and Schengen countries, while others have taken a more cautious approach. Entry restrictions and travel guides are naturally followed at the moment because they are both part of the government's overall efforts in handling the covid-19. That is why we are also looking at possible relaxations together. This year it will be a summer when I think most Danes are taking holidays at home. I am going to the beautiful Bornholm myself, and I look forward to it. And I am also looking forward to being able to travel freely again on the other side of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610130959	Thank you. We didn't get much smarter about that. In Rhodes, for example, there is so far. Four confirmed cases of covid-19. Nobody's dead. That is to say, if, for example, A citizen from Jutland can go to a destination like Rhodes, where there is virtually no covid-19, it seems that it would be more cautious than that he went on vacation in Copenhagen, where after all, although we have a low pressure of infection, there are some who are infected with covid-19. The Minister does not think, for example: Do the more than 200 employees fired at Billund airport or the other thousands of employees fired in the tourist industry owe a better explanation than a precautionary principle, which does not make sense when you advise against traveling to destinations with lower pressure than those already opened up? Does the Minister not think that the many employees and companies threatened with bankruptcy need a better explanation, which is a little more logical than the one just brought by the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131056	It was a very, I think, clear precautionary principle which we had described here with the explanation I gave. There was nothing I would rather than not be able to discourage travel to the whole world if that was the situation we were in. It should be borne in mind that, specifically in relation to a destination one travels to, it is also the amount of travellers that I also described in my reply that is crucial. It is not just what the pressure of infection is in that place. If you take holiday islands in southern Europe, there can easily be many tourists, also from countries other than Denmark, who gather in the same place, and thus the number of infection chains can increase dramatically. That is why we need to take care of the Danes, their safety, and prevent the infection from flare up again in our society, therefore, a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131138	Is it some health authorities who have recommended that the Minister advise Danes not to travel to countries or areas with lower pressure of infection than Denmark, or is it something that the Minister himself believes is a precautionary principle, that is to say, to advise against going there?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131157	There are three things on which we base our travel guides. Firstly, the risk of a Danish traveller bringing home infection and thus spreading infection again in Danish society. It would undermine our own strategy to contain and combat covid-19. Second, you can get infected out there. Thirdly, there are travel restrictions. For example, we still have Danes who are on our so-called emergency list, i.e. Danes who need help to get home to Denmark. These are the three criteria on which we base our travel guides, and in this way we ensure the safety and security of the Danes. And we also proceed cautiously in order to avoid the spread of the infection in our society again, for the infection is still absent in Denmark and in many other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131238	The questioner for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131239	In other words, it still does not make sense why the Minister advises against going to countries from which there is no problem coming home and where there is virtually no infected. It has huge consequences. Now I mentioned the more than 200 that have been fired at Billund airport, and there are plenty of companies that are going bankrupt because of this. Does the Minister not owe an explanation that is actually based on something medical rather than his own gut?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131304-2	Well, I can knock a stake through the notion that something is based on a gut feeling. This is based on a precautionary principle which I have explained twice to the questioner. And I have also explained to the questioner that it is not only the pressure of infection in the area in question, which is crucial, it is also the number of travellers who come to the area and who are potentially infected. If you come many tourists to a Greek holiday island from a number of different European nations, you may well risk getting infected and bringing the infection home. May I remind you of how we got the infection into Denmark? Among other things, we did. from ski resorts in Austria and in northern Italy. So I think it is wise to apply a precautionary principle. However, I fully agree with the questioner that when it comes to the industries that have been affected, it is of course something that we need to see, and so do we, and ensure that we also get the necessary help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131346	Thank you, Minister. And thank you to the questioner. The question has been answered. The next question has also been put to the Foreign Minister, and this has been asked by Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131356	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131358	Thank you very much. My question is this: will the Foreign Minister criticise the violent attacks on journalists and demonstrators that have occurred in connection with the demonstrations in the United States, and what is the Foreign Minister's position on President Trump's failure to deal with police violence and ethnic oppression?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131415	Thank you to Mrs Flyvholm for her question. It is absolutely fundamental for the government to support fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. It is essential for a democracy that citizens can gather and demonstrate for their cause and that independent critical media can freely report from the events taking place in society without fear of their health. These are principles that we stand by, and these are principles that we are addressing, and we have also taken it up in relation to the situation in the United States; we did so last week, when we made a declaration in the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe together with a number of other European countries, stressing how important it is for the free press to be able to operate, for the right to demonstrate peacefully, and, moreover, I would like to stress that we strongly condemn all forms of racism, intolerance and discrimination, and that we have no sympathy when it takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131516	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that, and I must also say that I think that the OSCE declaration that came last week, after I asked this question, is very sensible because it also distance itself from the police violence and raises that concern. So it's really good. But what puzzled me a little, also about the course last week, was that there were a few days before this statement came, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs would not actually relate to the situation in the United States and actually pointed out to the Secretary of State himself on Facebook that only the United States itself can and must deal with the current situation and that the United States stood in a very sensitive place, and therefore our American friends should feel our sympathy, our concern and our support, and that is also that we should not interfere with it. I must admit that I was very disappointed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not want to take an active part in this, and that is why I am also pleased with the subsequent statement here, which emphasizes it, because I think it is very, very important that we refrain from, in particular, the escalation of violence against both demonstrators and journalists. But I would like to hear: is this something that the Secretary of State himself will also address? So this concern, which I am glad we share when the United States and Denmark meet in different diplomatic contexts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131641	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131642	Thank you. I have therefore made my position clear on all forms of racism, discrimination and intolerance, and I did so last week. This is one of the worst things on earth, and it is something we must fight and everyone has a responsibility to fight it. As I said, we have also taken this up in relation to the OSCE Declaration, together with some other countries, other European countries, among others. Germany and France and a number of other countries. In that statement, we also write, the European countries, that we trust that American society and the rule of law will address the abuses and challenges that exist. And it is important that we express it, because it is important that, when we deal with other rule of law and democracies, we have confidence, as do the other rule of law and democracies, that when we have challenges in Denmark, we also address the problems that exist, no matter how difficult they may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131734	I have to say that one thing is the legal system: it is clear that there will be a process, but another thing is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is basically in relation to what we have seen the President of the United States do so far, is confident that he has a sensible line in this. What I've seen Trump do is to cheer the police and threaten to take military action against protesters and call journalists sick people, I think it was that spread fake news. Well, I don't think that's reassuring. Does the Secretary of State consider it reasonable to trust Trump's handling of this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131807	I have confidence in the United States as democracy and as the rule of law and confidence in the American people, whom we can see in a difficult place, which goes on the streets demonstrating against racism, structural racism and inequality, and which expresses a lot of frustrations that they have. I am confident that the American community, with the ideals on which they are based, can deal with this situation. It's not an easy situation. It's a situation that's painful for all of us. I myself have American friends and family members, also with different backgrounds, and that is something that affects us all. But I trust that the United States, as a country, will handle this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131845	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm for the final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131847	I welcome the Minister's criticism of police violence and racism too, but I think we miss the fact that Denmark itself will also make a clear statement that there is something to be worried about here. I think there is cause for concern in the style we have seen from the President of the United States. I don't think it's something the Americans can handle for themselves, unfortunately. That is why we also need to say yes and say yes and help raise this issue internationally. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do so directly and not only in a joint declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610131925	We in the government condemn all forms of racism, intolerance, discrimination and abuse. It is in the rule of law that when such things happen, they must be investigated and the guilty parties brought to justice. That's the way it is. We have emphasized this too. We have made a declaration with other European countries, in which we also emphasise how important it is for the rule of law to do these things here. So yes, it is important and we also have an open and honest dialogue with other countries, including the United States, on issues that are difficult as well. You have to be able to have that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132000	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more questions for the Secretary of State. Thank you to the questioner. The next question (pm. No. S 1342) and the next long series of questions have been put to the Minister of Justice. I would point out that, overall, one hour is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132015	Here you go to Mrs Anni Matthiesen for the reading of the first question to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132019	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister state whether the health authorities have recommended that tourists from Norway, Germany and Iceland should have a minimum stay of six nights outside Copenhagen, as decided by the government as part of the partial reopening of the borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132034	Thank you for the question. The model of the opening that we have now decided for tourists from Germany, Norway and Iceland is based on the government's decision, and that, of course, must also be the case in a democracy. As you know, the State's Serum Institute has said that it is to be expected that opening the borders will lead to the entry of infected people into Denmark, and thus there is a risk that new chains of infection will emerge. We must take that risk seriously, and that is why the government is also working on a precautionary principle when it comes to opening the borders. When we choose to demand that you stay outside Copenhagen, it is because we have seen, both at home and abroad, how the infection can spread particularly rapidly in densely populated areas. And when we demand that you as a tourist in Denmark have six nights' accommodation, it is basically about us wanting to limit the number of tourists who enter and that the tourists who are here do not travel around the country much from day to day. Unfortunately, there is no proven model for reopening Denmark's borders after a global pandemic, which, fortunately, at least in recent times, is unprecedented. For the government, it is crucial that the reopening of our borders takes place in a gradual and controlled way, so that we do not run the risk of jeopardising the positive developments that we have ensured in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132202	Thank you for your answer. The reason I have chosen to put this question in the Chamber today is actually that I get a lot of enquiries from my local area precisely on the basis of the resolution here. I can say that among other things. are hotel owners in South and South Jutland, who are financially challenged because many of them have built up their business to make weekend events and weekend trips, where for example. Germans come to visit for one or two nights, and then they go back to Germany again. The same is true throughout the Billund area, where both LEGOLAND, Lalandia, Givskud Zoo etc. typically built around people coming just a few days and taking a few nights and returning home, whether it is to Germany or the Netherlands, if it had also been open there. I am thinking of six nights, and I know that a derogation has been made for the first week, when it is then five nights or five nights if the number could have been three or two. Could it perhaps even have been achieved, because many of them, at least those who live in the North German part, as we know, go on either one-day trips or weekend trips? And was it really something that the government considered when making the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132340	First of all, I fully acknowledge the premise that there is a large proportion of our tourist industry that is economically challenged, just as there is, unfortunately, a large part of society, which is also economically challenged here during the Covid-19 crisis. That is also why we have made the openings that we have. That's one of them. to respond to a desire from the tourism industry to get the economy back on track, so that, for example, we can get the economy back on track. can rent summer houses etc. In the face of this, there is a health concern which, of course, we also have to take into account in the equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132416	But precisely in order for the people to understand the rules that have now been laid down, I think it is also important in some way that we also understand how the reality has been turned together, perhaps even from part of the country to part of the country. At any rate, I can say that what is also being asked for and I would like the Minister to confirm that is: Is it okay to take nights in six different places?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132447	Yeah, it's okay. You can go in and have nights, for example. Three nights in one hotel and then travel to another hotel and take three nights there. It's gonna be six nights, so it's actually okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132506	The questioner for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132507	Thank you. One of the things I also need to ask about is that some people are saying that this can be easily dealt with. I know that should not be called for, but there are, among other things. Some people who say that when you print the order confirmation, you can say fine the next day: we'll settle for 3 days rather than 6 days. But you still have the order confirmation. Is that something the Minister of Justice thinks there's no problem in? Of course, one should not call for disobedience, but it is clear that it is the order confirmation, which is like the entry ticket to enter the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132548	But it's true in this area as in so many other areas that it's possible to cheat on the rules. What is my appeal is that we stick to our caution and that those who are landlords of accommodation also help us to maintain that the infection does not get out of control again and restrict the chains of infection, etc. But it is here, as elsewhere, a matter of trusting the Danish people, and I have that basically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132620	Thank you to the Minister for Justice and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen. The question has been answered. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132632	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132645	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that European • with the exception of citizens from Germany, Norway and Iceland • spouses and girlfriends of Danes living abroad do not have the possibility to enter Denmark on family visits with their Danish spouse or girlfriend as a result of the government's current guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132703	Thank you for the question. We have seen all over the world, not least in Europe, how the virus has hit many very hard and how countries to which we used to travel have suddenly closed their borders in order to combat the spread of infection. Today, fortunately, we are somewhere else where we can take the next steps, and we are opening Denmark again, controlled, cautious and wise. We will also do so from 15 June, when, as the questioner also mentioned, we will open the way for tourism from Germany, Norway and Iceland, and there we will also give the opportunity for foreign dancers to take their spouse and family to Denmark on holiday or to visit friends or family in Denmark. The idea is also that there should be equality between citizens of the European Union and the UK with Germany in relation to the other Nordic countries, and in this way it will also be possible to move towards a solution to the boyfriend problem, which is also the second element of the question put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132806	Now I hope that I got it right, because that means that the Minister really has some news here today. I just didn't hear if it was only foreign Danes' spouses who could be allowed to enter or whether they were also foreign Danes' boyfriends. We have seen some, I think, rather heartbreaking examples for the time being. One example was a cancerous young Danish woman who had an American girlfriend who could not be allowed to visit her, but he had been allowed by the police to come to the funeral, and there the minister was quick to say that we had to change that and the cadeau for it. But later on we have seen examples of people who either have a girlfriend who is pregnant or are pregnant themselves, but they cannot be allowed to share the pregnancy together and, as I understand it, can only be allowed to be together three weeks before the term. Then we must hope that the water does not go too early and that the man can get a plane ticket if necessary, because otherwise there are some enormous problems. So I just want to make sure what it is that is opened up to. Now my question is about European spouses and boyfriends, but this problem is just as great when we talk about boyfriends everywhere else, but there is the difference that we are in the European Union and that we have a treaty that states that the Union gives citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, where there is free movement of persons, and then the Treaty for the functioning of the Union states in Article 21: "Every citizen of the Union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. ▪ It is, to put it mildly, out of effect at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610132959	Thank you for your follow-up and thank you for recognising that this must also be looked at in a differentiated way, in other words that there must be one for citizens of the European Union, and something else perhaps applies to citizens of third countries. There are some areas in the world where the pressure of infection is really, really high and this isn't to talk about; I'll try to answer the questions. I agree that this is complex. However, the situation we are facing now is that, if it is now a Dane who is resident abroad and who is travelling in from an EU country, then from 15 June he or she will have to travel in with a spouse or permanent partner and children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133036-2	However, regular couples are not necessarily enough, because it requires that you can demonstrate that you have had a relationship for a certain number of years, and it is not certain that you have it, for example. one girlfriend is studying in one EU country and the other girlfriend lives in another and you have one, if I may say long-distance relationships, but where you are often together. That is not enough of a regular partner. And as far as EU citizens are concerned, that is a very good thing, i.e. the opening that I hear is coming here, but how do we deal with third countries? Could you, for example, do that? make a distinction between the visa-free countries and the countries from which visas are required to get to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133122	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133123	I agree with the questioner that we need to look at the fact that there are some groups that, when we open up to Germany and the other Nordic countries, will have entry, for example, as the questioner mentions, a boyfriend. There, I think, we should have an intention of equality so that the rules for citizens of the other EU countries are equated with those for Germans and for citizens of the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133156	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133157	It may well be that I should ask the Minister if we could sit together to get this, if I may say the stick out more. For some of what we have seen is that it has been difficult to make general rules that have not affected unfairly. And one of the things you might also be able to discuss was the need for some general possibility of dispensing in cases that seem manifestly unreasonable, the Minister of Justice would not have had to stand on television and tell you why you should not visit your cancerous spouse, for example, because such a situation would have been trapped in the bud. This could perhaps in fact be in everyone's interest, not least that of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133244	In fact, I entirely agree with that, and I would very, very much like us to be able to sit together, also very much with the author's party. This is extremely complex, and I must agree with the questioner that it is necessary to distinguish between people resident in Denmark or Danes resident abroad. Finally, there are some who are not associated with Denmark, but who may be here for commendable purposes. And then again there is a distinction, in relation to which country you come from, etc. So the rules have evolved into quite complex and difficult to understand. And it is also quite right, as I know the questioner knows from his civilian activity, that with such rules we must keep our tongues in our mouths so as not to risk ending up with situations that are difficult to explain. So I recognize the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133327	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for his answer and to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen for the question. The next question has also been put to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133339	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133342	Thank you. Does the Minister of Copenhagen mayor, Frank Jensen, share the view that the rules that tourists should not spend the night in Copenhagen are hard to understand when he says on 29 May 2020 to TV 2 Lorry: "It is frankly difficult for me to understand that tourists are not allowed to spend the night in Copenhagen and that we as the only city in the country are still suffering from a form of entry ban from our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133411	Thank you for the question. I understand, of course, that the mayor of Copenhagen, like the mayor of Copenhagen, I am sure many others would have hoped that we could have opened up even more, but now that we are opening up to tourism again, we are also running the risk of every time we take the steps that we let infected people into the country, and thus there is a risk of new chains of infection starting up. We have seen here at home, but also in the big world, how quickly this virus can suddenly spread, especially in densely populated areas. That is why we say to the tourists who come here that they must book their holidays outside Copenhagen. I think there is common sense in the situation we are in now. There is no doubt that the corona crisis leaves a deep mark both in Danish society and in the Danish economy as well, and of course this also applies to our capital. For the government, it is crucial that we continue to tread carefully and controlled so that we do not end up in a situation where we get too much open and then have to roll back again. This would be both politically inappropriate, but it would certainly also be inappropriate in relation to the ability of the Danes to adapt to it and, incidentally, to ensure that we can take the economy back on track again. For some of the things that I believe that the decommissioning that we have carried out and the opening that is now taking place with aid packages etc. can actually facilitate is that, hopefully, our economy can get back on track relatively quickly when we make the opening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133541	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I really think it's a good idea with these section 20 questions, where on behalf of many of the citizens I'm elected here in Copenhagen... can ask the minister and try to get a better explanation. I don't think it's quite arrived yet. It is a great frustration when we cannot explain the rules we have. I think that one of the finest principles is what is found in the preface to the Law of Jutland, namely that the law must be honest, fair, fair, according to the country's customs, proper and decent and manifest, so that everyone can know and understand what the law says, and here it actually seems a little, as if exactly the Law of Jutland does not apply in Copenhagen. For these rules only apply to Copenhagen and Frederiksberg municipalities, 2 out of 98 municipalities, and I don't think they are obvious, so that everyone can know and understand what the law says. For the rules that tourists are not allowed to spend the night in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg, but can stay just outside and then take the S-train to Copenhagen, be all day in Tivoli, Nyhavn or at Strøget and then go back to sleep outside Copenhagen and then the next day repeat it, does not seem logical. When you finally try to sit down and understand the logic of it, you wonder even more. In fact, when you look at the latest survey of the exact pressure of infection, you see that most municipalities outside Copenhagen bordering Copenhagen and Frederiksberg have an infection pressure that is the same or significantly higher than the pressure of infection in Copenhagen, if you look at the number of infected people out of 100,000. So people wonder and don't understand, and I actually think that's a big problem. Because I'm afraid we're losing confidence in the many rules that are needed in this difficult crisis. Does the Minister share the view that we risk simply saying, when you do not understand it, that this seems silly and you ask why you should not dance after 8 a.m. 24.00, if we take the other rules around weddings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133724	On the whole, I think it is a good idea that the rules we make in the Folketing are in sync with what is popular perception of what is reasonable and sensible. I myself have said that politics is about doing what people think, a little before they know, they mean it, so that we stand a little further forward and hopefully point in a direction, but that people should be able to see the sense of it. And the rules in this area are now I have three seconds left, so it's going to be the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133755	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133756	But where is the logic of saying that you can't stay overnight in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg, but you can stay overnight in Glostrup, which has a significantly higher pressure of infection in Gladsaxe and other municipalities outside, and then take the S-train to Copenhagen and spend a whole day there? It is, of course, there, what to say, I think, that the chain jumps off too many of the businessmen and citizens of Copenhagen who say that they simply do not understand the logic of that. That is the logic I would like to hear if the Minister can explain a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133825-2	I think that the starting point for understanding this is that we start by lifting up and looking at Denmark as a country and finding that if we look beyond the country, it is the area in the country where there is really an infection now, the metropolitan area, and also a little out on Zealand, and in very, very limited extent in Jutland. Therefore, when we open, there is, of course, less risk of inviting people, tourists, into areas where the intensity of the contact is not so high and where the number is not so high. In order to regulate it, i.e. the means to do it, we need to look at the metropolitan area, concrete Copenhagen and Frederiksberg, and then of course look at the number of nights spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133905	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133906	Thank you, Minister. However, it seems as if we are not taking into account the fact that Copenhagen has also improved. It may be that Copenhagen is higher, but it has also moved. If you look at the curves of the development of infection pressure, it shows that it is all Danes who have behaved better and better and understand these rules, and at the same time the tourists from these countries, Norway, Germany and Iceland, whom we have now invited in, have also learned to keep their distance and sneeze in the sleeve and not to shake hands. So why is it that Copenhagen cannot also open up more and come back to a normal life? Should Copenhagen keep standing in line because it is a big city where the pressure of infection may develop differently and be higher, but where it has also been sharply decreasing throughout the period?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610133949	Fortunately, the development is also good in the metropolitan area in general. When we have chosen to invite tourists to Denmark from Germany, Norway and Iceland, it is of course among other things. Standing on the considerations that the questioner also indicates, namely how the infection looks, how it is handled and how it is dealt with in those countries and which give hope that we can do this without compromising what we have achieved in terms of health, which is also why we are not just opening up but saying that we need to apply a precautionary principle here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134023	Thank you to the Minister and thank him. Tommy Ahlers for answers and questions. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is asked by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134032	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134035	Thank you. Hey, minister, we're back. Will the Minister forbid Danes to travel to European countries if the citizen minister will not allow entry into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134047	Thank you for the question. It is not and never has been the intention that Danes should be banned from travelling abroad. There are also no real restrictions on exits in Denmark, such as those we have in Denmark. has seen it in other European countries. However, it is clear that as far as possible we would like to prevent Danes from travelling out and taking the infection back to Denmark in the same way as it happened when the infection was originally introduced in Denmark. This is among other things. in view of the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against any necessary travel to other countries in the current travel guides. The travel guide is a guide, and it is always the citizen's own decision and responsibility where he or she will go. As you know, on 29 May the government presented a plan for the controlled and gradual opening of summer tourism. Part of this plan is that the travel instructions for Iceland, Norway and Germany will be changed from Monday, 15 June, so travel to these countries will no longer be discouraged. The travel restrictions and directions are naturally being followed at the moment because they are both part of the overall effort for handling the covid-19. That is why we are also looking at easing entry restrictions and travel guides together. That is not to say that one would never imagine that there could be differentiation, but if they can be followed along, it makes sense, also for understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134217	I simply do not understand the context of the Minister's reply. In other words, Denmark is very restrictive, opening up only a few countries, while we now see how the other European countries are opening up to visit those countries to a large extent. This means that the Danes can go to Berlin, Rome, Paris and all sorts of places. So I simply do not understand how the Minister's argument to prevent the possible spread of infection is connected when the Danes can leave, but then a ban is maintained on the citizens of other countries coming to Denmark. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134300	I think that is quite logical. We say that if we are to avoid the spread of the infection again in Denmark, we must open up carefully. Therefore, we choose to open to Norway, to Germany and to Iceland from 15 June. At the same time, we say to the Danes: If you want to go on summer holidays, go to these countries. We recommend that you do not travel to the other countries. If they do, it is not something that we can do anything about, but it poses a risk that we will have new chains of infection brought home to Denmark, Danes should not comply with the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134336	But why does the Minister not take the step fully and simply make a ban on going out when the Minister is so worried that you can bring the infection home with you? After all, there is a ban on the citizens of other EU countries coming to Denmark. There are very clear restrictions. But at the same time the Minister says that it is only advice to the Danes. In the Minister's view there is therefore a great risk that Danes will go out and then bring an infection to Denmark. So what's the difference? Is it because the Minister believes that Danes behave better and are more capable of respecting the rules than citizens of other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134416-2	It would be tempting to say yes to the end, but I think we are about as good as the other countries are. And if you look beyond Europe, it must also be said that the image we find in Denmark, that is to say, that you lift the restrictions on entry, has been largely matched by the fact that you have also had a recommendation not to leave the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134443	Then there's access to the co-questioner. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134445	Thank you very much. I took note of the fact that the Minister stressed in his reply that the position of the Danish Government is relatively logical. I think that was very sensible, because in my optics it is absolutely illogical. That is why I would like to return to something that we have discussed in the past, namely what the health evidence really is for this relatively logical decision of the Danish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134519	After all, you have to be careful how to formulate yourself, that is to say, about the relative. Everything's relative. The health evidence, which we have also been over sometimes, is basically that the Statens Serum Institut says that if we open the borders, we risk inviting in citizens who are infected and who can thus start new chains of infection in Denmark. If the Danes are travelling, let us now say that they are going to areas where there is very extensive infection, for example. Brazil has a risk that we will experience what we experienced when the disease was introduced in Denmark, namely that Danes have been out and bring the infection home to Denmark, as happened from Austria and northern Italy earlier, and that is why we must, of course, try to avoid that situation. The introductions this autumn will be suitable, for much has been learned, but the basic mechanism is like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134618	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134620	Should I understand the last thing the Minister said here, so that when we reach the autumn, everything will be normalized and Danes will have the opportunity even with the government's agreement to be able to travel abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134636	I wish I could say yes to that, but we will have to deal with the situation as it develops all the time, and the expectation is that there will again be increased pressure of infection when we reach the autumn. I think that there are just a number of things that we have learned about tests and the detection of infection, etc. If we do it right, we will be able to keep the disease well under control, even in the autumn. But it takes a lot of effort on the part of the authorities, and not least it requires the Danes to continue to do what the Danes have been so skilled at, namely to keep their distance, drunk hands, wash their hands, remember to sneeze in the sleeve, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134712	That is the questioner again. Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen for a final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134715	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the travel advice to which the Minister refers is based on health care or whether it is a political decision of the government that travel advice to European countries looks like it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134740	In fact, I believe that the fairest thing would be to address that question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is not because I am not going to reply to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134744	The question has been answered. But the main questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134757	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's view that Danish nationals residing abroad are not allowed to take their foreign spouse on holiday in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134806	First of all, thank you for the question. I understand very well the many people who would like to go to Denmark for example. to take a holiday, and fortunately we are reopening the country. From 15 June, people living in Germany, Norway and Iceland can, as you know, enter Denmark to take a holiday, and it is clear that the spouses and children of foreign dancers must of course also be able to travel on holiday with their spouses or parents. That is why the government will also open it up in connection with the opening on 15 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134841	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610134843	I should not hide the fact that I think it is unworthy, inhumane, in every way just shameful, that we have apparently ended up in a situation in which Danish citizens cannot bring their foreign spouse to Denmark. I think that's sad. I have been a little concerned about what the Minister has discussed with his European colleagues. In the Committee on European Affairs, the Minister has, among other things: In the memorandum sent to the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, it was stressed that the recommendations made by the Commission on the gradual reopening, including the borders, of the Danish Government's positions, are fleeing. I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Commission's recommendations suggest that this kind of thing should be done, as I see it, inhuman separation of families, in other words where a person who has Danish citizenship can, of course, come to Denmark but not have his or her spouse, who has citizenship in another European country, with him?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135000	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135002	I have the communication from the Commission with me. I do not remember there being any recommendation in this direction from the Commission. Of course, what the European Union says is always important, but I really think it is more important that we ourselves deal with what we think about the issue. And I think it is the case that if you are affiliated with a Dane who is resident abroad, for example. as a spouse or as a permanent partner or as a child or other person, you should be able to travel to Denmark, also for a short stay, also as a tourist. That is why it will be this way from 15 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135041	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135042	But I am really, really glad to hear that, that is to say that the guidelines originally announced are obviously being changed, so that if you are married to, for example, an Austrian national or an Italian national has the opportunity to bring his or her spouse to Denmark. Hats off for it. I would like the Minister to be as attentive to some of the many other situations that we have brought up here during Question Time, because then we did not have to take the time of either the Minister or others to discuss the complete absurdities that have arisen in the wake of the guidelines put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135128	Let me start by saying that in my time as Minister there are not many fixed points in my life, but meeting the questioner and the questioner every Wednesday is, after all, something that repeats itself with complete certainty. And so let me say that this gradual opening-up that we are through means that, compared with the other EU countries and the Nordic countries, we see what the opportunities are for opening up. And there it will be the case that if you are a foreign dancer, but want to go to Denmark with your spouse, with your partner, with your child or the like, then it opens up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135205	Then there's access to the co-questioner. This is Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135208	I can then tell the Minister for Justice that we promise to keep coming on Wednesday after Wednesday, because we are quite successful in these questions we are asking. We're actually gonna make some improvements. But I must also say that the cases we are addressing are completely insane, in other words that the government has made all the many restrictions and thus bans that have separated families. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice says that okay, now the foreign spouse can bring the spouse and children, who are Danish citizens by the way. I very much welcome that. But why would it go on for months? What was the Minister's reason for preventing a family from coming to Denmark by not allowing it? Why do so many questions have to be asked in this Chamber before the Minister becomes a little bit humane in relation to the restrictions imposed by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135305	It is true that there have been many restrictions, just as there have been many restrictions for all of us who live in Denmark for the public employees to go to work, for the day institutions that have been closed and for the public schools that have been closed. We've done all this, not to bother people, but to make sure we've got this disease under control. And if you look beyond Europe, you just have to say that Denmark has done very, very well, if you look at what the pressure of infection is like now. There are these restrictions, but when we are in a situation where it is possible, we must of course open up so that we continue to make it health-friendly, as I have also found through this string of Wednesdays that we have been here is a view that we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135345	The enquirer for his final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135347	But what difference does it make to allow families with Danish relations and Danish citizens to bring family members who are not? So what has actually changed since the Minister thinks that we can now show this concern? And is this really how we are going to proceed, that is to say, on Wednesday after Wednesday, we will have to pull one specific case of peculiarities on the part of the government after another, so that we can bring about these changes? Is that how we're gonna make the summer go?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135421	It is not because I want to override the effort, but we have in fact also thought politics beyond what is brought about by the questions raised here on Wednesday. And it is actually the case that this very thing about having to enter Denmark, if you are a spouse of a Dane who is resident abroad, has thus been part of the rules regarding the recognised purposes from the very beginning. It has only been slightly relaxed by saying here from 15 June that if it is tourism alone and so on, it is also a legitimate reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135452	This is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135455	Fortunately, in this specific area, the Minister has chosen to listen to what I also believe in this area is a broad majority, and not just the Danish Parliament; I also think that the Danish people actually think that what the government had put up was completely out in hemp and completely grotesque and foolish. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135527	I would say that one must, of course, always be careful that in the surveys of the population's assessment of the government's management of this crisis so far I have not seen it described as out in hemp and completely grotesque. I think that if you look beyond that, you have to say that it has been handled sensibly. And I have also noticed that the author's party has said in several contexts that the material that has happened, the decommissioning that has taken place, etc., is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135557	Thank you to the Minister and to the questioner. The question has been answered. I should just like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, has been taken over by the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. 16 to the Minister of Justice (pm. No. S 1380) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135616	Here you go for a reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135626	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that Danes resident abroad should not go with their foreign spouse to Denmark to visit the family when Danes resident in Denmark are allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135641	Thank you for the question. I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that as a foreign dancer one would like to take the family on holiday or visit to friends or family in Denmark. And when, from 15 June, we open, on Monday, for tourists from Germany, Norway and Iceland, you must of course also be able to bring your spouse here on holiday as a Dane. That will therefore be part of the opening from Monday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135708	I must say that comes as both a joyful and probably also as surprising news. But just to understand the Minister, because there are many of us who have received many inquiries, and that is also why we are many who ask comparable questions about this area: does that mean that foreign nationals who are married to Danes must come, regardless of which country they come from and whatever their purpose? May they come in, whether on vacation, family visits, or how can we understand this? Or do we have to stand here again on Wednesday because there is another confusion? It's just for the first. There's been a lot of confusion about this. For example, I have. talked to Danes Worldwide today, who could not find the logic of the rules that have been. Fortunately, it seems that the Minister is now opening up. You have been able to call a coronahotline, which provides an oral answer, but can you support it when you get to the border? There are so many things that seem so illogical that are not reasonable and that have not been properly thought through. Can the Minister first confirm that the rules are now completely clear in this area? And can the Minister then tell us a little more about what is behind it and whether you can really support what the corona line tells you, where there is an hour's waiting if it is a good day? Or what do you have to do when you're in doubt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135844	If you reside in an EU country or a third country and are associated with a Dane resident abroad, you may enter Denmark for a recognised purpose or if you are a spouse, a regular partner or a child of the Dane who resides abroad. This also applies, even if you want to travel for a shorter period, from 15 June, i.e. from Monday.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135920	Thank you. Can the Minister tell us how long a shorter period is, because I think there are many of us who do not know and what lies in it and what must be done there? In addition: Can one begin to support legal law in relation to the coronahotline, or what can one do with it, in addition to getting some advice and guidance, and maybe something will be done at the waiting time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610135945	There is thus no lower limit for the shorter period. In the past it was the case that there had to be special purposes and, if it were tourism or holiday alone, there was a restriction on it. That is the limit that falls away, and therefore there is, as such, no lower limit for the shorter period. As far as the possibilities of obtaining information are concerned, one should not need to support it, as long as these are the rules. So when you come and introduce yourself at the border, the border people will say, "Please come in."
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140020	The questioner for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140021	Well then, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that there has been some clarity here, because I have to admit that it is generally very difficult in these times to find out what can be done, and that is not all that seems logical. There's something about weddings, and there's a lot of other rules that we can get a little confused about. I am glad that now foreign dancers can finally bring their spouse in. After all, it's nice to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140052	Every time I get the opportunity to throw clarity into the Left Parliament Group, I also get a little warm about the heart. So we share that joy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140109	Thank you to Mrs Honoré Østergaard, the question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I have the honour to inform you that Question No 1 will be answered in writing.1 14 to the Minister of Justice (pm. No. S 1353) also, at the request of the author, is deleted, presumably because the Minister has given answers to some of the questions here. It also warms the heart of a chairman. Now there is another question for the Minister of Justice, and that is asked by Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140133	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140134	If the President will allow me, I would say to the Minister for Justice that he can go and take a glass of water if needed, because there have been many questions. My question is: As long as many European countries now open the borders of all EU countries, will the government also tear down its border wall so that citizens can once again be visited by their partners and families from abroad, not only from the EU, but from abroad in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140201-2	First of all, thank you for the opportunity to take some water. I also believe that it is a human right which one must impose on even a minister during Question Time. I have to say that, unfortunately, I believe that the question is on the wrong premise, because I simply cannot find out what the border wall is about which the questioner is talking. Well, we've made some entry restrictions, but we haven't built any walls at the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140234	With the shaky approach, I can then start by saying to the Minister that earlier the Minister replied to some members of the Left that it has been possible to have a spouse throughout. That is not true, because on 22 April I was here with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration asking why spouses had been kept out of what I then choose to call a border wall and which the government calls entry restrictions. Marriage was then opened up, but now we are faced with the problem that people cannot have a girlfriend visiting from abroad. The Minister of Justice can then answer in the second round why a citizen in Denmark cannot be visited by his girlfriend or a family member from abroad, all the time that many other countries around the world are opening up the borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140329	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140331	It's not that simple. Since the end of April, it has been the case that if you come from an EU country or a third country, you must enter Denmark if you are a spouse or a regular partner or a child of a Dane resident abroad. So it's been the rules all along. It is so true that until then it has been the case that you could not enter if the purpose alone was tourism or holiday or a visit to family and friends. This is the change that, as I have said, sometimes earlier today, will come into force here from 15 June, so that the possibility of entering just for the purpose of tourism is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140408	Does it also apply to family members and boyfriends that you may visit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140415	It depends a little on the situation. If you are travelling from Germany or the Nordic countries, it will be the case that you can also take your spouse, girlfriend, parents, grandparents and child or grandchild • how the relationship is now with you into Denmark, even if you are resident in one of the countries concerned. The rules are a little different if it is a visit to a person who is resident in Denmark and those with relations come from outside Denmark. This, as I said earlier, is fairly complex, and that is why you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140455	I think it is quite wrong that the state does not protect the family and love lives of its citizens and ensures that a boyfriend or family member who lives outside the Nordic countries or Germany can visit you. That's why I just want to hear the government: when do you open that part of the border so you can have a visit from a girlfriend, for example. is a child waiting with, or visiting a family member from abroad? Do you really have to wait until 31 August to see those you love just because they are from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140527	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140529	That, in fact, is the question I answered earlier, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen. With the rules that are now being opened up to Germany and the other Nordic countries, it is the intention to create equality for citizens from EU countries and the UK, so that access to, for example, one of the most important aspects of the EU's external relations is that of the Union's external relations. To have his girlfriend reviewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140551	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg for asking questions to the Minister of Justice. There is another question for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140603	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140604	Thank you for that, President. The question is: does the Minister agree that it is difficult for yachts and marinas to comply with the rule of 6 days booking in relief for foreigners' valid entry home in Denmark, and does the Minister intend to relax this rule for the guests mentioned for the benefit of the Danish marinas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140623	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140625	Thank you for the question. Last Friday, 29 May, the government presented a plan for the gradual and controlled reopening of summer tourism. With effect from 15 June, it will be possible for tourists from Germany, Norway and Iceland to enter Denmark. As the honourable Member so rightly points out, we have called for a demonstration of six nights outside Copenhagen. We do so because it is so important that we continue to proceed in a controlled and gradual manner. It goes the right way in Denmark, it has to go on, and when we open up, we have to do it in a way where we are sure that we will continue to be able to control it. If you come to Denmark as a tourist with your own boat and you don't plan overnight stays in hotels or in a summer house or similar... and why should you do so when you have the boat with you, of course, you are in a rather special situation compared to being able to document the six nights. So, it is really a question of documentation, because if you take the six nights, you are, in fact, entitled to be here if you come from one of the countries we talked about before. So in these cases, you have to demonstrate six planned nights by showing, for example: advance bookings of the first and last port site with at least six nights between the two bookings. I understand that someone will experience that as difficult, even more difficult, than they are used to. I think that is how we have all experienced different situations in this crisis, where everyday life has changed, also into something that was more difficult. These are extraordinary times we are in, and unfortunately that also means that this summer we will be making demands that we would not otherwise make, also for tourists who come sailing to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140815	Thank you for your reply to the Minister. It is very good for Danish coastal tourism that the government has opened for German, Norwegian and Icelandic tourists. We urgently need tourists this summer, while, of course, taking health care into account. Tourism is Denmark's fourth largest industry with approx. 160,000 employees • a lot of jobs and approx. 130 billion kr. on the market. The government has chosen to place some demanding restrictions on entry, which must be able to document a rent certificate for a holiday home, camping stay or a stay in a hotel, just not in Copenhagen. No tourists are allowed to spend the night here, but are happy to visit the city during the day. That doesn't really make sense. Nor does it make sense for yachts sailing with the 6-day rule. I myself am a passionate sailor and know what wind and weather mean for your sailing. In fact, the risk of infection will be less, since the sailors will remain mainly on board their boat. Booking can barely be made in our ports; they can only in 20 ports out of 350; they simply do not have the facilities for it. So why introduce a rule that pulls the carpet away under marinas throughout Denmark? It works against tourism. Has the government had the foreign yachts sailors considered when the six-day rule was made, and does the government intend to relax the rule for the foreign yachts sailors for the benefit of the Danish marinas?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610140936	But that is quite right, and I know that the questioner knows everything about from his previous work that tourism is extremely important for Denmark, important for jobs, important for turnover, important for our economy. That is also why we have chosen to open up tourism gradually. Faced with this, of course, is the concern not to introduce new chains of infection, not to risk pushing the covid-19 infection in a way that we have to shut down society, thereby losing some of what we have won, thereby pushing even more to the economy the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141017	Thank you for your answer. I don't understand why you just got stuck with a six-day rule. It is as if tourism in general is being slaughtered even more and especially at this time. I hear the Minister is sticking to the six-day rule. This could mean a turnover loss for marinas of 0.5 billion. kr., and this can mean the loss of a lot of money for Copenhagen and for Denmark as a whole. What is the reason for making it so troublesome for foreign tourists to come to Denmark? Is there health evidence, or is it on the part of the government, on the basis of a precautionary principle, and how did one end up on a six-day rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141054	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141055	This is a question that I have been over sometimes. The 6-day rule is basically about trying to regulate the intensity, density and the possibility of introducing new chains of infection. There are those considerations in relation to the fact that we then avoid a very fast and fluctuating tourism with the risk of new chains of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141124	The questioner for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141125	Thank you for your answer. I think it is very important that we focus on the guidelines and on the obvious problems in the practice that the 6-day booking rule brings to foreign sailors. Another rule is that you should not spend the night in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg as a foreign tourist from the countries concerned. Here I would just like to hear what the consideration has been in relation to not staying overnight at Frederiksberg and in Copenhagen, but may well just outside the municipality limit. Today it can be read in Berlingske that two out of three hotels in the capital have a turnover which has fallen by 80%. compared to last year. This is going to cost a lot of jobs, and we are in a situation where foreign tourists can go to Tivoli and visit museums, but are not allowed to spend the night in the capital. What does the government do to support tourism, which is a particularly hard-hit industry, now that the government has made particularly tough demands on companies that live on tourism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141212	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141213	When the questioner says that it is going to cost jobs, you just have to admit that it has already cost jobs. There has been a significant loss of jobs in Denmark. One of the things we have done is to make aid packages in the hope of avoiding redundancies and ensuring that when we get the opportunity to open again, there is a basis for companies in the industry to get the jobs going quickly again and that we can thus get back on a normal, fair track economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141241	Thank you to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. This brings the last question to the Minister for Justice (pm. No. S 1366), and there's an enquirer with it. The question has been asked by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141252	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141253	Thank you. What is the reason why the government will now allow the general crossing of the border of residents of the border country when the government has previously rejected it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141304	Now I have to find out about the questions, because there are some that have fallen out, and I'd better read out the right answer. First Vice-President Question No 1 S 1366. It would be reasonable to provide some service information here). Yeah, I got that right here. I know the answer is so short that I can make it. Eva Kjer Hansen but it might be better without the papers). Maybe I should try it someday. Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that we on the part of the government have always made it clear that we do not want our borders to be closed more or longer than necessary. We have also openly said that we will look at the restrictions on entry on this side of the summer holiday. Now that we're in a place where we can open our borders again, it's because we've got the covid-19 infection under control. Basically, it is about continuing to go the right way in Denmark and fortunately also in several of the countries around us. We have always said that we are aiming for a gradual and controlled reopening of Denmark, and that must be seen in the context of the next steps we are facing. There is no doubt that the closure of these borders has been of particular importance in the border country, and that is why I think it is only natural that we should look at the border country as one of the first when we open up further. I know that this has been a matter of concern to many people, and I know that the questioners in particular have been concerned, and that is certainly something that the government has been concerned about. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress that it is clear that when we open up, it is provided that we do not suddenly lose control of the infection again and have to roll the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141448	Thank you. It is incredibly sad that the government has not had an understanding of how life is lived in the border country and that what the government has really done is to separate families and friends to an quite unreasonable extent, because it has not had respect for crossing the border in everyday life. But now I understand that the government will open up more next week. I think the Minister for Justice should unveil what exactly is going to happen. Well, how does this get across the border? Will people from Hamburg be covered by it so that they can now come to South Jutland without restrictions? Is it all border crossings that are being opened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141537-2	If I am not mistaken, we would have had to deal with these questions either last Wednesday or in the conciliation. Eva Kjer Hansen I can confirm that, but there they were not answered). Yes, it was with whether Hamburg is part of Schleswig-Holstein or not, and where we agreed that Hamburg is not. What we are looking at is opening up the border country in a way that makes it possible to travel and life can be lived normally in the area with the opportunities and interaction that would exist under normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141615	But as long as the Minister only talks about, for example. Residents of Schleswig-Holstein have nothing to do with normalisation. Then only a few restrictions will be removed for residents in the local area. If we are to return to normal conditions, we must open up to Germans in general and, in fact, follow the German example and open up to EU citizens and allow for entry to Denmark without restrictions. So what's this all about? If the Minister is not going to answer me whether it will include people from Hamburg, then at least the Minister can answer whether all border crossings will be opened next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141703	It may well be that this is where we look at it a little differently, because I think it would be too risky if we said that we are now opening up to the whole of Germany completely free. Having said that, it is a recognition of the special cross-border interaction with the minorities on both sides of the border. When I look down on the map of Europe, I must also say that there is considerable variation in the nature of the infection in Germany at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141735	Then there is access to a co-questioner, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141739	There was one important question that my colleague was not given an answer to, and it was here about whether the normalisation announced in the border country covers all border crossings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141758	What we are aiming for is to make an opening so that life can be lived as normally as possible across borders and return to the situation we had before. There was no situation before, of course, that there was no border controls on the border with Germany, and we also have to consider, of course, when we open up how the controls that are to be carried out should be carried out. But it is not the case that we have not had control on the border before the covid situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141831	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141832	I should like to make it quite clear that I am not talking about border controls, i.e. temporary border controls, which we have introduced for quite different reasons than covid-19. I am talking about an opening of borders, that is, the possibility of crossing the border, so that there is no boom down, as we have seen in the world press, where an elderly girlfriend and girlfriend had to sit on both sides of the boom and drink their morning coffee. Will all border barriers be opened in a way that allows you to cross, no matter what border crossing is involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141913	When I replied so slightly, it was partly because I would otherwise be shot in my shoes that I had said something else. It was simply to say that we agree on my party and the author's party in common that the temporary border controls that we had before the covid-19 situation are also border controls and that it must also continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141942	Thus, the questioner is again available for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610141945	But then, Minister, we cannot stand here and talk about normalising the situation in the border country and then not reply to whether the border crossings will open next week. Once again, it is a very simple question: will all border crossings between Denmark and Germany be opened next week, yes or no? And if the Minister cannot answer that, I simply do not think it is right to talk about the fact that we are now in favour of normalising the situation in the border country and ensuring that residents can move freely across the border. If anyone, the Minister for Justice should know what a barrier it is when there are border crossings that are closed for people to move. And just for the record, I am not talking about whether or not there should be control. I am talking about the possibility of crossing the border crossings where a large part is closed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142041	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142041-2	But I think there may be a disagreement that is not really being raised. Basically, I think we agree, when we look at opening up Denmark again, that one of the areas where we would like to give priority to making cross-border travel easier unhindered, is precisely a luxury which, unfortunately, we cannot yet allow ourselves in relation to our Swedish neighbours or, incidentally, the world around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142115	Thank you to the authors, and thank you to the Minister for Justice. It's been exactly 60 minutes and all the questions have been answered, so thank you to the Minister for Justice. The next question (pm. No. S 1326) has been addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and this has been put forward by Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142131	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142132	What is the Minister's view that children today are getting more and more strange names, such as: Einne and Diddedarling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142144	Thank you for the question. For a name to be approved as a first name here in Denmark, different conditions must be met. First of all, the name must be a real first name. This means, for example, that titles or numbers cannot be accepted as first names. Secondly, the name must not be unsuitable for use as a first name in this country. Whether a name is suitable is based on an overall assessment. Among other things: the name must be written and pronounced in Danish, and it must be able to act as a name. Thirdly, the name must not be inappropriate or, as the name law says, stumble. For example: racist words, names of fictional persons or known trademarks or brands will not be recognised as first name. It is based on a concrete estimate what can be approved as a new first name, but with the name law there are limits to how far one can go. It is the parishes and the family courthouse that decide on the new first names, and it is also they who have to put their foot down if anyone goes too far in their wishes. I have no problem with there being room for unique and creative names. This applies both when children are to be named or baptized, or when adults want a new first name. But I would also like to say that I am counting on parents who choose to give their children a unique name to remember that it must keep both children's lives with everything that belongs to them, and indeed the rest of their lives into adult life. It is a responsibility which is only one of the many responsibilities we expect parents to be able to take for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142315	Thank you for your answer. I understand the answer that the Minister is not interested in tightening the law as we are in the Danish People's Party. I am, of course, glad that you cannot call your child Nutella or Neskaffe or No. 7 or No. 13, but I think it is wrong that you can call your child Slave or Diddedarling or Eunne, which was part of my question, or Rasmusbailey or Smiley or Piphat or Julianvitus, which are examples of recently used ports that have been allowed after the liberalisation of the name law that took place in 2006. I find it sad that this is possible. Because with the liberalised name law we are giving this trend in the time when you have to be different, that you have to be new and that you have to be completely innovative in all areas, completely free of charge, and it has gone crazy in the name area, and when you go crazy in that area, you are dismantling yourself like a culture. For the child who is going to be called those mysterious-strange things will not recognize himself in the tradition that precedes. In some way the parents have thereby printed their child out of tradition, and it may seem like a small thing, but I think it is something that has an impact on whether we can continue the Danish culture and the Danish community in Denmark. That is why I do not think it should be allowed to come up with all kinds of crazy names. I understand that you should be able to give names that are not quite common, but I think you have to put it better in what you mean by "ordinary," i.e., that the names must have been used earlier. That is why I think we need to put a stop to this kind of liberalisation, in order to maintain our tradition and to maintain that new Danes will have the opportunity to form part of this tradition, including with their names.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142526	It is not a surprise to me that the Danish People's Party wants to tighten legislation. For, as I remember, the Danish People's Party was the only party outside the liberalisation of the name law in 2006, which bore a broad desire in the Folketing. I therefore agree with the questioner when the questioner makes a fundamental connection to this discussion, and the fundamental background to changing the name law was a fundamental understanding that it is probably the parents who are closest to determining a child's name. It's not something the state knows better than the parents. There I think, in the fundamental discussion, whether it is the parents or the state that can best take care of the children, that this is at least a place where the Danish People's Party stands elsewhere, compared to when I have had the whole discussion about vulnerable children and the placement area with the colleague of the questioner, who is also in the Chamber today. That is why I believe that when it comes to names, it is a small part of the huge responsibility that comes with when you become parents. I am therefore inclined to think that, with the fundamental balance that was achieved when the name law was liberalised, we had a long way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142639	There is always a limit between what the state must decide and what the individual must decide. That's right. However, when it comes to the liberalisation of the name law, I think we went too far. All the things we warned about in 2006 have happened. That is what has been documented in some articles here lately, namely that people call their children anything. I believe that, as politicians, we have a political responsibility to maintain tradition. In terms of health, the state does not mind interfering in the most intimate details of people's lives, so it must be possible in this area to interfere a little more. I am not saying that responsibility must be totally taken away from parents, but it is necessary to say that there is a tradition that we want to safeguard, and we can do that, among other things. with the name law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142725	As I also explained in my reply, it is not the case that everything was freed up with the liberalisation of the name law in 2006. There are still some frameworks, and there are still some limitations that I reviewed in my reply. After all, there is still a difference between the names of men and the names of women based on our tradition. After all, all these things are being discussed on an ongoing basis. It is not because I do not welcome the discussion, but just as far as this is concerned, I really think that it was quite right in principle when it was said at the time that, with regard to a name for a child, it was in the light of the parents that it is almost up to them to decide what is right for the child, and not the state, with the limitations that have been maintained after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142802	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142803	But the framework became too wide. The framework for what you could choose became too clear. When you can call your child the Slave or Eunne today, then something has gone wrong. There is where we say that one then has to take it up again and see if one can put the cut somewhere else, a little closer to tradition, and so go in to define what tradition is and say that people cannot go outside of it. I think we owe this to the children, but we owe it to our traditional and historical community in Denmark as well. Because without it, our culture disappears.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142840-2	I think I have to maintain what I have said, that the most important thing for me is that parents take care of their children at all and can take care of them and have thought about which name is right for the child and which can follow the child both well through child life and into adult life. After all, it is one of the many decisions that we must be able to make. I am glad that there are the restrictions that there are, after all, in the liberalised name law, but I think that the hand on the heart is that there are bigger discussions and issues where the community should intervene more in relation to some children who are let down in their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142920	Thank you to the Minister and thank the questioner for that question. Before we go to the next question, I should like to inform you that Anne Honoré Østergaard under no. 25 questions addressed to the Minister for Health and the Elderly (pm. No. S 1372) is deleted at the request of the author. This is another question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, this time asked by Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142941	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610142943	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's position on the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior has not included the Joint Council of Rural Affairs, which among other things is: represent 55 municipalities and 2 regions, on the consultation list for consultation on draft legal bases for reform of the equalisation system, but have only sent it in consultation to KL and Danske Regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143006-2	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing that, in the context of the consultation on L 196, which will give effect to the agreement on the compensatory reform, the Ministry has received a hearing response from inter alia. Joint Council of Rural Regions. It is also included in the consultation note sent to the Parliamentary Social and Home Affairs Committee on 27 May. I am very positive about the great commitment that has been made to the compensatory reform. I have received and answered a large number of inquiries. I have held a large number of meetings with both individual municipalities and municipal groups. This also applies to the Joint Council of Rural Regions. So I would say that there has been a high degree of involvement, and this is also reflected in the final agreement, which I think contains a good balance of the many views and considerations that exist, and, of course, most importantly, provides for a Denmark in a better balance where the differences are not too great. The Ministry has sent the specific bill in consultation with KL and Danske Regions, which represent the municipalities and regions of the country. In addition, it has been made publicly available on the Consultation Portal, so that everyone has had access to give a hearing response. This is the same approach as in previous legislative proposals on changes in the compensation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143118	KL represents the municipalities as a whole and the Danish Regions as a whole. The Joint Council of Rural Regions is, after all, the organisation which represents rural areas as a whole. If the reform of compensation is something that is going to affect rural areas deeply, what is it that makes the Minister have not had the Joint Council of Rural Affairs in his deliberations at all when the Minister should decide who they would be entitled to consult?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143152-2	First of all, I think it was a very good meeting I had with the Joint Council of Rural Regions in January, and I also believe that many of our outermost municipalities are pleased with the compensatory reform which is moving 1.4 billion. kr. to the 30 outlying municipalities of the country. It is a good, solid result that ensures a Denmark where there are not too many differences. There is no tradition for the Ministry to send legislative proposals for changes in the equalisation system to various municipal groupings. There is the Joint Council of Rural Regions, but the rapporteur is also aware that there are other groupings and associations of municipalities, different cooperation between different municipalities. The fact that the Ministry does not have a tradition of sending legislative proposals for changes to the compensation system in consultation with various and, indeed, sometimes emerging and infinite associations should not be seen as not listening to them. As I said, I had a very good meeting with the Joint Council of Rural Regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143245	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143246	And I am grateful that this meeting took place at all. It is thanks to the fact that I called the Minister down during Question Time when the Minister had refused six times to meet with the Joint Council of Rural Regions. So I'm really glad that meeting happened. After all, it is good to hear that the Minister got something out of it, and I would like to help the Minister in this respect in future if the Minister were to forget to give them priority. But when it comes to the compensatory reform, it is something that affects rural areas. This is precisely where rural areas are those which can become the great losers in it. Why is it that they have not been involved at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143323	If we now selected rural areas as the only group to receive it as a consultation party, then I think that the big cities and the cities north of Copenhagen, the richest municipalities that contribute more with this compensatory reform, would wonder why they should not be heard. I think it is a very good approach that we hear KL, representing all municipalities, and moreover the draft law is openly presented so that everyone can make contributions if they want to. The Rural Council has done so. The Ministry has dealt with this in the consultation note on an equal footing with the other hearings sent to the Folketing. I think it's a really nice process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143400-2	I recognise that there are several different groupings, but the compensation reform is primarily about rural areas, on the one hand, these vulnerable areas, these vulnerable municipalities, where there is also a population mix in some of the municipalities that make it problematic, also in relation to crime and ghettos, etc. After all, these are the things that are particularly vulnerable in the compensatory reform. So is it not possible to take up the issues that are particularly vulnerable and say: is it therefore important to hear the organisations that represent it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143440	This government's proposal for compensatory reform was to raise the municipalities where it is hardest to run the municipality, where you have the biggest challenges. That was our whole starting point for these negotiations, and that is why I think we must look a lot for a thought conflict if we are to claim that we have not thought and remembered the outskirts. The outlying municipalities were lifted by 1.4 billion. kr. in this compensatory reform. One could also have made a compensatory reform, which was about moving money to the richer parts of Denmark. That has not been the agenda here. So I think we need to have some kind of conflict in the Assembly in order to say that the outermost regions and rural areas may feel forgotten in our compensatory reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143519	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 1354 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and this is put forward by Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143534	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143539	Thank you. How does the minister feel about elderly people apparently being refused to leave their homes, as the article says...The end of nursing homes denying relatives walks with their loved ones brought at www.alzheimer.dk on May 20, 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143559	I am very annoyed if there are nursing homes that have misinterpreted the rules on visiting restrictions in this way, thus denying residents the possibility of leaving the nursing home. It has never been the intention of those rules to limit the ability of nursing homes to leave their homes. The restrictions also do not allow access to the isolation or quarantine of the residents. However, according to the guidance of the Danish Health Authority, citizens leaving the nursing home should be supported in thorough hand hygiene and compliance with the Health Authority's general advice on prevention of infection. Those restrictions have been imposed with the aim of reducing the risk of infection by a particularly vulnerable group. After all, we know that nursing home residents account for one third of registered deaths with covid-19 in Denmark. So it is of course extremely important that the further opening of the nursing homes we are now in the process of doing so is considered and within the general health recommendations. Yesterday we were able to announce that, following the agreement of 20 May, a new model has been established for the partial reopening of, among other things. nursing home. After that, it will no longer be possible to prohibit visits to outdoor areas and one may be appointed to two permanent visitors who can visit indoors when the health of residents or the physical conditions of visits make it impossible for the visit to take place outdoors. So we have worked to find a sound and long-term solution so that a gradual opening takes place in a health-friendly way where both residents, relatives and staff can feel safe. In this context, we all have a responsibility to keep the infection down by following the recommendations of the health authorities. In general, we have been very good at this, despite the fact that we have examples here that some have gone too far. We have generally been good at this and I hope that we will all keep the infection down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143756	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610143756-2	In the Danish People's Party, we are deeply concerned about this. So, it is the citizen's own residence, one has apparently been refused leave and one has been refused a walk outside the nursing home's cadastral. And many of those who may have done it or been out have also been told that they should then be in isolation afterwards. So I just ask the Minister: does the Minister think that there has been proper communication to the nursing homes and to the municipalities when things like this happen? There have been several articles, including: in Politiken and in the Ekstrabladet today, who can tell about this. And now the minister says, if that's the stories we hear. It is the citizens who sign in to us. Every day there is a nursing home resident who calls me and tells me that he is not allowed to leave the nursing home because he lives in a nursing home that has several floors and I tell you every time that you can; he is allowed to go for a walk outside. How can this come about? I mean, how can you interpret the rules like that? Something must have gone wrong in the communication by the Ministry and by the authorities when so many can be wrong about what the guidelines are and what it is they must be. That's why we in the Danish People's Party have repeatedly asked for this positive list of what you can do, rather than always knowing what you can't do and what you can't do. But the Minister and his official work did not want to draw up this positive list, which we have been asking for a very long time, precisely in relation to whether you can ride a rickshaw bike and all these things that I have discussed several times with the Minister. Then the Minister mentions that one to two permanent persons may now be allowed to come to visit, but as I wrote to the Minister again the other day, it is the citizens' own accommodations that we have to remember in relation to this. It is the citizen's own residence. Who to choose? If you have a golden wedding, who should you choose to visit? That is why I simply believe that the Minister must state clearly what the consequences are of illegal detention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144011	Quite a lot of questions were asked here, and I have 30 seconds to answer. The big question I can see is whether there has been a good enough communication from the authorities, from my own ministry and from the authorities for which I am responsible to the municipalities and thus to our institutions. And the answer is: Obviously not yes, when there are such examples. And one of the things that was said from the beginning is that this is going to go so fast that there will probably be mistakes along the way, which then have to be corrected along the way. And if mistakes have been made here, I think we should acknowledge that and then we must correct those errors. And I understand that KL has also said that they are in the process of ensuring that this does not happen in the various municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144058	Well, this seems to have happened in several municipalities. And what's illegal? Well, that's illegal detention. I know you can't use force and keep citizens from going out of their own homes. So one is communication from the Minister, but what does the Minister intend to do? This is so essential. In other words, you have communicated in a way where you have not made it clear enough for the nursing homes and for the municipalities what they have to deal with in relation to this. During the urgent procedure, I have just mentioned to the Minister that the Minister was given a number of powers and that he had to use them very, very sensibly. Otherwise we would come after him, and that is what we are doing, because it is simply not right that people should refuse to leave their own homes and go for a walk and that people should meet in secret in cemeteries and other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144150	In concrete terms, I have followed up on this when I have had some presentations either from the questioner or from others, or have had inquiries about some things that I think are wrong. I have followed up on this in concrete terms with the KL, and I can quote what the KL said to Ritzau on Saturday 24 May, after another debate on this matter. There said KL that there are no doubts about the guidelines, and we follow them in the municipalities. And then it says something about how you're picking up the places where you've misunderstood them. I think that's a good message from KL. We may not be able to escape the fact that there may be some errors in some places, but we must have corrected the errors • every single error • because they have major consequences. I fully agree with the questioner on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144230	It's got really big consequences, isn't it? Yesterday in the news we saw that there have been cancer victims who have not been able to say goodbye to their relatives. In other words, there have been a great many mistakes, and if the authorities and the Minister for Health are simply unable to state clearly what to do, both in the municipalities and in the nursing homes, then there will be mistakes. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: how will the Minister remedy this? How is the Minister going to ensure that this is not the way to run the risk of committing illegal detention? Because I guess it's basically when you refuse residents to walk out of their own homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144310	We can see in Denmark, which, as the figures now appear at least, has not had excess mortality in nursing homes as a result of covid-19, that one third of the deaths resulting from covid-19 have nevertheless occurred in our nursing homes. In other countries and even countries close to us, the figures for nursing homes are even worse. Therefore, as a society, we must be extra careful, extra careful and extra careful when it comes to visiting nursing homes. That is what the rules and recommendations of the authorities have been like. Then there are some examples of some that have gone too far, and of course they have been dealt with, and so it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144350	Thank you. The question has been answered. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144401	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144402	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the sunset clause in the epidemic law on temporary powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144412	I think that clause is wise, and we, as a whole, agreed on it, so that the law should be repealed again on 1 March 2021 as a result of such a sunset clause. It is wise to have such a clause when you have legislation, that is, emergency legislation, as it was in a very, very special situation in the history of Denmark. And then it is wise to give yourself the framework that is in a sunset clause. In concrete terms, this means that there is a sunset, in other words that time runs out of the powers that the authorities and myself, as ministers, have been given. It happens automatically. Compared with the current sunset clause, the method that we then chose in the Danish Parliament, on which the parties agreed, is, in fact, a model in which the whole epidemic law is actually repealed, not only the new powers, but in fact the whole of the very, very old yes, actually 100-year-old epidemic law; it is being repealed. In other words, what we also gave each other a handshake was that a thorough, engaging work had to be done in order to create a modern, new epidemic law, so that we would be better equipped to be able also to stand in a situation where we need to act quickly and take action at a time when we are faced with an epidemic that would be much preferable. Now that we have had three urgent laws, I must say as a minister that it is far preferable, both for me, my official apparatus, for our governments and for the people's regime to be much preferable, so that we can avoid as much as possible from the emergency legislation and have as much as possible already in place. There was not much in place legislatively before the epidemic hit Denmark. It was therefore wise to do so too, and the Folketing also allows for urgent legislation; the Folketing also agreed on this. But the main question is: what is my position on this? I have to say that I support it and think it is wise that there is a sunset, an expiry date, on the emergency law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144614	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144614-2	It is of course very interesting that this is the whole epidemic law. I didn't get it that way. And I'm curious if other parties have understood the same way. On the part of the Danish People's Party, a sunset clause is about a temporary provision, as the emergency law was. That is to say, we expect that when it's gone, it's the old thing that's left. Then there has to be a whole new piece of legislation, and then it is not certain that it is all parties that are involved. The Minister must first find a majority in favour of giving a minister the same powers as have been done here in the emergency law. I think it is very unconfident for the citizens at the moment, who are actually very sorry that we have taken this step which we all agreed on, because it was a temporary solution, that is, an emergency law, so that we could react here and now, and in this case the Minister was given some powers that he would not normally have. So does the Minister think that we should go back to what we actually have now when the sunset clause is gone? Should we then have a law that gives the Minister the powers that exist today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144718	No, I don't think so. First of all, I think the Folketing is fully aware of this. Although it was an emergency law, it was a large part of the committee work on the law, but otherwise I should like to send over to the Folketing exactly what the Folketing has adopted here. I am absolutely certain that the Danish Parliament is in on it. But that means that the agreement we also made with each other was that in the autumn we will begin the evaluation of it and the drafting of a new law, which will then have to be adopted in the Folketing in the event that we in Denmark think we should have an epidemic law. I think we should have that. I think it's wise to have that. What the content should be of it is too early to say now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144757-2	But it could be that we believe that the epidemic law that was before the emergency procedure was okay and that we in the Danish People's Party say that it is the one we want again. It is true that we said that we would evaluate it, and that is quite all right. It was just as much to see if it was necessary to have the sunset clause on 1 March. It could be that in November we will find out that we can make the sun go down a little faster. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144827-2	My aim is that we can work with the Folketing in an open and inclusive process for a new epidemic law to replace the previous one. What a difference there should be from the previous one is simply too early to say. I would recommend to all the parties that we wait for us to know more about how these urgent laws we have implemented here have worked and then draw conclusions. So the goal is that we should have a thorough and proper process and with good time for the autumn we have that luxury, and we should also have it and that means that when it is adopted, the other will lapse when the Folketing is ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144908-2	But one of the things that citizens are insecure about with this law is that it allows for forced investigation, forced treatment of people, to ban larger assemblies and to ban access to, among other things. public institutions, shops and means of transport. Is that some of what the Minister thinks should be like ministerial powers in a new epidemic law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610144929	It is far too early to say anything about. We are currently planning how Denmark should be prepared for a possible second wave with much, much faster and more fine-meshed interventions and how we should be able to deal with such a situation. I would recommend that this be done on a ground where we do not need to go into new emergency legislation to deal with the existing epidemic. I think that would be very, very wise. I am in favour of urgent legislation, of course, when necessary, but we should also think long-term and learn from it every time there is something to learn and here is really something to learn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145010	Thank you. The answer to the question is closed and we go further. It is still the Minister for Health and the Elderly who is being asked questions, and this time it has also been asked by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145018	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145018-2	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that a number of general practitioners have reported to the Ministry of Health regarding the 5.3 million ordered coronatest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145030	Significantly increased testing across the population is one of the things that supports the reopening of society, and it is also part of the political agreement with all the parties of the Folketing. By opening tests for all adults with permanent residence in Denmark, we have got an unbureaucratic solution where it is possible for the individual to assess for himself whether to test for covid-19. That is to say, as for example. Hairdresser or taxi driver or anything else that is at risk of being exposed to infection through work, that is to say, now has easy access to testing, or if you are relatives and want to be tested before a visit to a vulnerable family member, if you have been too close to many people for an event and exposed to infection, you can be tested even if you have no symptoms. I think that is a real decision. The situation here with covid-19 is quite extraordinary, and there has been, and I would like to acknowledge this, the need to find quick and secure solutions and in this case secure solutions for all Danes to be tested. This is done as part of the monitoring and control of infectious diseases on the basis of Article 222 of the Health Act. At the same time, it is crucial that the medical follow-up of positive test responses can be done in your own doctor. It is their own doctor who knows the patients best, and therefore it has been a practical device that the practitioners have become technical candidates on their own patients, so there is certainty that positive test responses are actually also sent to their own doctor. It is also worth emphasising that the requirements for testing, which are created for all Danes in Testcenter Denmark, are particularly marked in the IT system, so that they cannot be confused with a requisition requested by the doctor of his own motion. I fully acknowledge that this is a special solution in a particular situation, and I also fully understand that for many practitioners this has given rise to worried questions. That is why I have also had a good and constructive dialogue with the PLO, and I welcome the fact that yesterday an agreement has been reached with the medical practitioners on the honouring and handling of test responses in the broad social track.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145236	Well, it's a weird society we live in. It is the health authorities who ask the CDC to send out tests on all the citizens of the country without having been to their own doctor and without informing doctors about it. And here the day before I ask the question, you make an appointment with the doctors that they will be paid after that. There are a lot of doctors who are insecure about this. They have their license. They want it to be those who sit ahead when it is to be ordered and also take the responsibility that is when you get a test response back. But here it has been done without informing the doctors and just sending it out. Then, of course, the doctors also ask: what happens when these test answers come? The citizen thinks it's the doctor who ordered it. Some have actually received answers, even without being tested. It's a little weird, too. So there may be some mistakes here too. So what does the Minister think to do more than this is something that has not been done in the past and you do not actually know how and what mistakes occur along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145340-2	In the best of all worlds, we had a system where this could run, but the system has to run, among other things. be able to handle that all Danes must be able to order a test. I think that is a wise strategy, because it is a broad social test, and we ourselves have had the discussion in the past, and that is why I mentioned taxi drivers, because the questioner highlighted taxi drivers and said: How can they be tested? Are they really going through their own doctor? We're free of that now. In other words, it is, I think, a very, very flexible, non-bureaucratic solution that we have found, but the IT systems must also play together, and it was necessary to do so here, and then there are some remarks in the IT system, and they should solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145424	But you mix things up. Yeah, I've been up here saying test, test, test. Why don't we test the cab drivers? Why don't we test that group? So we totally agree that we have to test, but this is the medical authorization we're bypassing. That's also why it's been reported to the police. I would also like to hear: do we have the legal side? Have you applied for an ethics committee and what else is needed to do this kind of thing? What authorities have been listened to here? Is it a piece of the law that says that you have the right, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145457	Under Article 222 of the Health Act, the State's Serum Institute has the possibility to issue claims for covid-19 under the authority of the SSI. So the questioner says she's been standing there and saying, test this group and this group. If you have that position, you cannot at the same time have the view that everything else must be on the basis of medical judgement, because then it is not on the basis of a question of political decision-making. Then it is on the basis of the individual medical assessment, and it was earlier. Now we have opened up, which means that all groups, which you might also think politically or which you yourself seem to need to be tested, can be tested. I think it's a fine solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145540-2	No, you mix things up. I would say to the Minister that I would like the citizen to take responsibility himself. I don't want it to be coercive. It shouldn't be like this: Now we've ordered your test without your doctor knowing, and then we can test you. When I say we have to test taxi drivers, it's to tell all the taxi drivers, you know what? Now it's your turn. It is to inform them about it and then get them into the white tents that have just been made to test many of those who do not just have symptoms. It's something other than being ordered in your name without a doctor's authorization.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145612	There is no compulsion here; it is entirely voluntary if you want to be tested. But that was the setup we had in Denmark, and I should just like to remind you that there was an incredible amount of debate, including here in the Danish Parliament, where many parties thought that we tested too little: there were every week new groups that could be tested, because they were also a kind of front staff. Then there was the sausageman, and then there were the garbagemen and the taxi drivers and the cashiers. Many people are in contact with many people, and I think it was all wise. That is why we said: rather than having the eternal debate, it was perhaps wiser that we opened up widely so that we also get the most, because there is still a small level of hidden pockets of infection, and every time one finds one of them, we can begin the detection, and then we can contain the spread of infection in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145658	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. The next question to ask the Minister for Health and the elderly is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145711	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145713	Thank you. Is it the view of the Minister that municipalities comply with the old-age agreement regarding the offer to citizens of more thorough cleaning if a municipality writes out to its citizens that they can have 10 minutes of extra cleaning and what will the Minister do to ensure that a more thorough cleaning is offered?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145732	Let me start by stating that the municipalities have This means, among other things, that a municipality cannot make a general decision on the content and scope of the aid offered to the elderly in the municipality. Of course, I do not know how each municipality organises the restoration of the aid temporarily suspended during the covid-19, and the same applies to how individual municipalities follow up the need for more thorough cleaning after a longer period without help for cleaning. However, in relation to the specific case on which I assume the question is based, I would like to say that I understand from the press that the municipality in question has regretted the matter. I'll interpret it as if the municipality were getting it right. However, as I also mentioned in my oral answer to § 20 question no. On 12 May, I wrote around all 98 municipalities and made them aware of the content of the agreement on the elderly. In this letter, I have stressed the importance of giving priority to the area of the elderly and having to return to normal levels, as society generally opens up. I have also stressed in the letter that there is a need for thorough cleaning by the elderly who, due to limited cleaning for a longer period of time, may need to do so. How and when that part of the agreement is implemented locally will, of course, depend on local conditions and the concrete assessment that exists of the individual elderly. By the way, it is the Ankestyrelsen and not me, as Minister, who will deal with complaints about the specific decisions on aid taken by the municipality. Therefore, it is also the Ankestyrelsen who supervises whether the municipalities comply with the legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145922	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610145923	But can the Minister not confirm that in the agreement we reached, we agreed that our intention was politically that the citizens who had had their help reduced and many had had it reduced; that is up to 84 per cent. the municipalities, which have applied the notice and reduced the practical assistance, including cleaning, needed more thorough cleaning. When you have not been cleaned for months for some, you need a more thorough cleaning. That was the intention of that agreement. Then the minister talks about the Ankestyrelsen and complaint and individual assessments. I just have to say that the intention of that agreement was at least what the Danish People's Party fought for in the agreement was that those who had been cut down in their cleaning aid should be offered a more thorough cleaning. Can the Minister confirm that? And can the Minister also confirm that 10 minutes is not good enough? Well, that's far from good enough. A thorough cleaning is a thorough cleaning. Does the Minister agree with DF that in 10 minutes a thorough cleaning can not be achieved within that framework? So I have to be sure that the Minister for Health will once again follow this up and ensure that the agreement we have reached is also put into practice so that all citizens who have been turned down for their help are offered more thorough cleaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150059	Yes, I can confirm it was part of the deal. That is why I have written it to the municipalities, which is why we can also hear that the municipalities are now in the process. Then there is a concrete example in a newspaper about a municipality that has written something in ten minutes, as the questioner points out here. And there I understand that the health director of the municipality in question has said to the Ekstra Bladet that this is regrettable and that we are assessing individually. But that's exactly what you have to do: always assess individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150134-2	So we make an agreement that the residents whose help has been cut under the covid-19 and has not been cleaned should be offered an extra cleaning, and then what if the municipality goes in and estimates that they shouldn't? The minister says it's an individual assessment. Our intention is that all those citizens should be offered extra, more thorough cleaning, and that is what we agreed. The Minister may answer that question. Now the minister says this is one example, but one example is rarely left alone. Well, we'll see more examples of that. We've seen that before, and we'll probably see it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150212	Yes, and what should you do if you haven't had the thorough cleaning? So it is the Ankestyrelsen who is both a review body and has the overall supervision of the municipalities. So that does not change our text of the agreement. This means that we have a review body if we do not get the specific cleaning according to the individual needs we have. I don't think we should talk that down. It is wise and good that there is an individual need to meet here, because of course it is different, depending on how much you need help as an older citizen and how much reduction there has been. That is precisely what the agreement is aimed at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150258	I get a little mad and a little worried about the Minister's answer. As I understand the Minister, he says that yes, that is the individual assessment. And yes, as a starting point, if you comply with our agreement, an individual assessment is fine. If we do not comply with our agreement, we will actually end up with these citizens going into a long complaint by complaining to the Ankestyrelsen and other things to get the extra cleaning, the more thorough cleaning that we have agreed politically. That is why I would like the Minister to clarify at least what we mean by our earlier agreement on more thorough cleaning so that we do not see it here and so that citizens do not have to go through lengthy complaints to get what we have given the money for and which we have agreed in our agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150348	That is exactly what I have done in the letter I have sent to KL and I would very much like to send it to the Danish Parliament. That is precisely where I am clarifying and unfolding the content of our political agreement, and I am even clarifying the part that concerns the fact that there is a backlog in some elderly people who have had less home help because of covid-19 for a period of time, understandably. Now we have to get back up and there is a backlog where there is a need for thorough cleaning. That is what the agreement describes, and it is written out specifically to our municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150429	Thank you. There are no further follow-up questions. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Karina Adsbøl Oh, that's too bad! I'm gonna stay right there. Yes, it is always exciting to be in dialogue with ministers, so one might be tempted to ask more questions than the Rules allow. But now it is a new questioner, and it is Mrs Gitte Willumsen from the Left who has to ask questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150452	Thank you, President. In view of the fact that, according to health authorities, the disease is best spread in larger assemblies, does the Minister believe that the risk of larger gatherings is greater in hotels in Copenhagen than in hotels in Hvidovre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150506	No, I don't think so. I have now received a number of questions from the Left Party on whether there is a greater spread of infection after 1 p.m. 24, and whether there is a greater spread of infection in a hotel in Hvidovre than in Copenhagen, and I think I will get some corresponding later today. I do not think so, because there is no medical evidence to say that there is. Of course there isn't. I think it almost has to go under the characteristic rhetorical questions. Of course, I will answer them anyway, but it is just to say it as it is, from the start: no, there is not. But the matter is a little more nuanced than that. First of all, if you look beyond Europe, you will see a large number of restrictions on travel beyond Europe, and we are not at all the only country in Europe that has restrictions. We are in the process of relaxing them in Denmark, and many other countries are also in the process of relaxing them. What we can see is that when you relax, it happens gradually in Denmark, and it does so in many other places, compared to where you can stay. One of the things we have also done here is to see where it is, the infection thrives best, and these are exactly the places where there are many people close together. As far as our capital is concerned, our tourist attractions in a smaller area are close to each other, so there is the risk too. And you can remember that last summer in Copenhagen it struck one, how incredibly many tourist nuggets there were many, many places, and by having this rule we have set up a guard against an equally large tourist confluence, where it is physically impossible to keep the distance that you actually have to keep. So of course that is why, in other words, it is a desire to spread tourism more across the country. If we set the limit outside Hvidovre, I think we would have had questions about what would happen to Rødovre, with Køge etc. That certainly makes sense in the debate, but at the same time it does not make sense if I may say so. Unless, of course, you just open up everything, and you can have that as a political objective and position. We all have the goal, but to have the attitude to do so now I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150715	Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150716	Thank you. The tourist industry is very important for Copenhagen's business and employment. Copenhagen has already experienced a huge reduction in the number of nights spent at a rate of 60%, and it can be translated into the fact that in March alone 480,000 nights have been lost, which is a loss equivalent to what has been seen in the rest of the country. On 29 May, the Minister's own party colleague, Mayor Frank Jensen, said to TV 2: "My heart is bleeding for Copenhagen hotels, restaurants and rides. He went on to say: 'It is honestly difficult for me to understand that tourists are not allowed to spend the night in Copenhagen'. As a result, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is impressed by the fact that a party member makes such a strong rejection of the government, and what response the Minister has given to the mayor and Copenhageners when there are more infected in the West, where tourists can sleep. They can be inside Copenhagen during the day, and then they can go back to Hvidovre or Glostrup or Køge and return to Copenhagen and lump themselves together, as the minister mentioned earlier was what one wanted to avoid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150827	Well, it always impresses me what Copenhagen's very, very talented mayor says and what his assessments are. I fully understand that, and I would have been surprised if he did not say so, I would also be honest and say that regardless of party color. You are allowed to come to Copenhagen and eat in restaurants and be in Tivoli or at Bakken or go to the parks and enjoy the beautiful capital as a tourist, but accommodation must therefore be done outside, and that will of course limit the tourist pressure in Copenhagen, and that is what the whole purpose is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150905	Since it seems dangerous to sleep in a hotel in Copenhagen, what about the many other opportunities to spend the night in Copenhagen? Nor can you rent yourself into private homes via Airbnb? I've been in to check out their website and you can rent whatever you want: one night, two nights, whatever you want. There is nothing on the website that says that you cannot rent a private accommodation in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150932	With regard to the question of the law in it, I must refer to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610150939	But the Minister for Health must, since it is now thought that it is indefensible to have people clumping together in Copenhagen and that they must therefore leave town to spend the night, have thought about how to control it here. Do you want to go around and see if tourists live in these apartments? Or are we in whistleblower arrangements, or what is the Minister planning?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151002	Unfortunately, I have to refer again to the Minister of Justice. After all, we have some areas of concern and questions about how to comply with it and what the authorities are doing in relation to these things, it is my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151015	Thank you. We shall continue with the next question, which has also been asked by Mrs Gitte Willumsen to the Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151025	Thank you. What is the medical reason why you can only come to Denmark as a tourist if you have booked a minimum of six nights here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151035	I knew we'd be in the same place again. It is, of course, almost the same question, and it is certainly the same thematics that lie here. In order to jump to the conclusion, I would say that this is not the way it is. We have not said that in any way, nor have any authorities told us that this is the case. This is a tool to have reasonable control over how much we open the borders. I would say that I am in close contact with my European colleagues and with the ECDC, the European Agency for Diseases. And in the context of the great opening-up that is taking place in many parts of Europe, of the communities, we are looking at a great deal of uncertainty and a great deal of uncertainty! When we get forecasts and there will also be some during this week they are filled with very, very great uncertainty. That is to say, it is wise and right that it is my firm conviction to move forward gradually here and not just open up wide open to everything and imagine that we could have a situation like a normal summer. I'm afraid this isn't a normal summer. We all yearn for it, both our business community and all of us people who live in Denmark. The whole world yearns for it. But look around in almost all other countries, both in Europe and in the world. There are restrictions. There are huge countries which are otherwise completely based on freedoms that cannot be entered into. There are countries that have imposed a curfew. We're in a special situation, and that's what these rules are all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151234	Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151235	I get that, and I'm a biologist too, so I know how the virus behaves. But then I'd like to hear the Minister for Health when you're a tourist. Are you a tourist if you are going to a wedding or confirmation in Denmark and come from e.g. Norway, then, if you are not closely related? If the answer is yes, it will mean that the wedding guests and the confirmation guests must take 6 days off to participate in these festive events. It'll probably be the most expensive confirmation party or wedding party these guests have ever attended. I have an example from a Danish-Norwegian family who is dealing with this particular issue. Will a cousin, an uncle, a cousin or a former schoolmate be a tourist when he sits down at a well-covered table at home and borrows the children's room to spend the night in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151332	I fully recognise that in particular the marriages and relationships that cross national borders are some of those who have paid a high, high price here, and their relatives have been able to feel it first in relation to the way they normally are together. The rest of us start to feel it only when it starts to be summer and we want to go on vacation. But they have already felt it from day one, and I fully agree with that. That is how it is in Denmark and the rest of the world. So I fully understand that. The very specific question about borders and authorities is therefore the Minister of Justice who has to answer the question as to exactly how the rules are there. So I would recommend sending a written question to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151415	Okay. Does the Minister think that a confirmation or a wedding feast can be regarded as a worthy purpose if guests can show an invitation so that guests do not have to stay for a whole week in Denmark? You can easily find the spread of infection here because you have a guest list. So could it be viewed as a commendable purpose to be a guest at a confirmation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151446	Once again, I must refer to the Minister for Justice in relation to going into the country and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to leaving the country. I believe that this debate is taking place while we are standing here. It has taken place in the Parliamentary Chamber earlier and is now taking place in the Name here, as far as I understand. That is to say, it's pretty crucial for us that we stick to this resort. It is not because I am not going to answer the questions that are being asked, but it is just important to us that we stick to the resort areas we now have and while there is a debate in the Name, I do not want to go into another minister's resort at all while there is such a debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151525-2	Thank you. Then I can come back on Wednesday and ask the questions to another minister. So I would like to ask the Minister: if you are driving through the country, are you a tourist? In other words, if we imagine that you are a Norwegian and you are going to Germany and that you have to go back again and that there is something about ferry crossing and that you have to have the itinerary to look after, can you stay for one night? Is it dangerous for us that there is a Norwegian tourist who has to take an overnight stay in Frederikshavn before he or she can come on the ferry? How does the Minister of Health feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151600	Exactly the rules for driving through Denmark I do not want to go into, because it belongs to the Minister of Justice's area of responsibility. But for what's about the medical profession, and about, if someone comes and spends one night, it should be more dangerous than if you stay here for six nights, I'll say no. We may agree that this is not the case. But when we have set the limit and made the rule that one must be able to show that one has to spend the night in Denmark for six nights, it is precisely because we have to limit the tourist pressure in Denmark. We are opening up as much as possible, but there is not going to be the same tourist pressure as we are used to because of the health profession. A lot of people are upset about that. I'm sorry myself. We open up as much as possible, but we need to be on very safe ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151652	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly, and thank you to Mrs Willumsen. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 1360, which is for the Minister of Transport, and it is submitted by Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151706	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151709	Is the Minister concerned whether the ban on tourists staying overnight in Copenhagen will lead to more congestion in the already packed buses, trains and S trains that drive in and out of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151725	First of all, I would like to say Mr. Tommy Ahler's thanks for the question... Tommy Ahlers is concerned about the welfare of the Danes and tourists. First of all, I can tell you that public transport in and out of Copenhagen is now running according to the normal timetable, and not after a reduced road map, that is. that it is running according to the same timetable as before the corona crisis. In connection with the gradual reopening of Denmark, passengers are returning to public transport, and this is, in fact, pleasing, but we are very, very far from normal. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of last week we had Monday and Friday, there were holidays, so I have ignored them was the travel card activity in the afternoon rush hour for S-train approx. 35% lower than normal, in the metro the afternoon rush hour was the same days approx. 45% lower activity, and if we look at Movia's buses in the metropolitan area, the activity was as much as 50%. lower than normal. So overall, travel card activity during afternoon peaks has been between 35% and 35%. and 50%. lower than usual. And it should be pointed out here that the afternoon rush hour is the time at present when most passengers are present; in fact, the normal is that morning rush hour is the most hectic. If we look at the route between Roskilde and Copenhagen on Wednesday last week, June 3, the coating was approximately 22 per cent. of the normal. In general, therefore, there is currently no congestion in buses, S-trains and trains in and out of Copenhagen. It is clear that there will be buses and trains in which there are many passengers during rush hour, and here it is the responsibility of all of us to travel in the most appropriate way possible. I can, for example. recommend using DSB's web app, which is called "Plads" on the journey, where you can check if there is a good space in the S-train if you want to travel there. But since we expect that during the summer there will also be fewer commuters, there is therefore no immediate concern about travel patterns.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151934	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610151935	Thank you. It sounds like the Minister's view is that there is room, also for tourists, in the S-traines and S-buses, and what else you choose to drive in and out of Copenhagen. The reason I ask is quite real, because when you are in Copenhagen and take the metro out of Copenhagen at least last summer you will notice that there are real, very many tourists with you, mainly back and forth to the airport. Now the tourists have to go back and forth to the places where they can stay in the municipalities around Copenhagen and Frederiksberg. And when you look generally at what we have talked about when we have talked about transport, and when the Minister has also talked about transport and corona, there has been a concern whether it was a place where we would pile up, i.e. whether there would be too many. We were recommended to sit with proper distance, turn the same way • there has also been discussion about • and then also that we might not have to drive at the same time. We share the concern about this, but I also understand that the reason why it has been decided to say that tourists are not allowed to spend the night in Copenhagen is that they are afraid that new chains of infection can come to Copenhagen. It does not necessarily have anything to do with quantity. Should it not also be assessed separately in relation to transport? Because it's not necessarily just a matter of 35%. extra capacity and therefore space on the trains, but also the fact that there may be some people, in other words the tourists here, who are afraid, and that this is what the government's precautionary principle about Copenhagen lays down. And that is why we should do more if we are to follow that logic, in other words do more specifically in relation to transport into and out of Copenhagen. How can we manage it in relation to tourists? So my question is quite specific: has the Ministry done anything concrete? In the dialogues with transport operators, in other words DSB and the Metro company, has there been a discussion about how much pressure there would be, because tourists were not allowed to live in Copenhagen, and what is being done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152121	It is the case that we have a general recommendation that rush hour should be avoided if possible. And if we look at the normal traffic pattern outside rush hour, there is little cause for concern. The assumption is that in the summer period there are a number of Danes who are on holiday and holiday elsewhere in the country, and therefore there is also less pressure on public traffic during peak hours. So there is not a great deal of concern here, but it is clear that the recommendation must of course be that as a tourist in Copenhagen you try to avoid rush hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152203	Should I understand the Minister that nothing specific has been done in relation to a dialogue with transport operators on how to deal with this extra pressure that comes when tourists are allowed to live outside Copenhagen, but do not live in Copenhagen? And the assumption is still gone that they would like to see all the amazing things we have here in Copenhagen, when they have entered a hotel in Gladsaxe or Rødovre. Has nothing specific been done in relation to transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152226	I have ongoing dialogue with transport and transport companies, DSB, regional transport companies, etc., and to be completely unbiased, what is the big concern is how to get some more people to take advantage of public transport, because it has bled as many passengers as it has. So perhaps the problem is not so much how to avoid getting passengers, but the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152255	The reason I ask the question is also that many people cannot understand these rules, and one of the things they then ask is why tourists have to take buses and go back and forth. I have simply not been able to answer that, and I have not seen anything special being done here when I have been out. That is why I am asking the Minister whether this issue has been raised here or whether the government does not consider it a problem that these people, who are otherwise seen as dangerous and who are therefore not allowed to live in hotels in Copenhagen, are driving public transport. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152324	It will always be an advantage if you were a frequent user of public transport, so the questioner himself had had an insight into how few passengers are actually in public transport. This is a huge challenge, and it will be a huge financial burden to correct the loss of ticket revenue that has occurred. Of course, we will always have an ongoing dialogue with the transport companies. This is not a concern they have mentioned in a word.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152354	Thank you. That concludes the reply. Thank you, sir. Tommy Ahlers. We will continue with questions to the Minister of Transport, and now it is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party, who is asked the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152404	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152407	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Minister not think that it makes very good sense to launch a rapid political debate in which the parties of the Folketing can obtain a majority in favour of an infrastructure agreement in those areas where traffic projects can be brought forward and implemented relatively quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152430	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, only a few hours since we last had a debate here in Parliament on the need for a broad-based and long-term infrastructure plan, and I would also like to say here that this is something that we, despite the Corona crisis, still believe there is a need for. It is a plan which must also have a clear green imprint. A broad majority in the Danish Parliament has set an ambitious objective to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030, measured in relation to the 1990 exit point, and looking at the transport sector, it represents a significant part of the emissions, and therefore we must also look at our infrastructure investments in the context of climate action. We should not make decisions blindly, and therefore we need to know more about how an infrastructure plan is going to be green, and this requires us to be longer in the work on the climate action plans before we can call for broad negotiations on a new infrastructure plan with the parties of the Folketing. I am also aware, of course, that there is impatience and, in relation to the motion for a resolution which was discussed in the Assembly earlier today, I think it was a very constructive debate and there was a desire to find a wording in a report to the resolution which as many parties as possible can support. I think this is quite constructive, and I really think that the debate we have had in connection with the debate on questions, resolutions and other matters also points to the fact that there is a desire to make broad agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152625	Thank you and thank you for your answer to the question. The Minister is, of course, right that it is not, for many hours since we last had a similar opportunity to discuss infrastructure in Denmark and how it should proceed with the launching of negotiations and projects and funding etc. The reason why I am asking this question is that the Minister had the chance, I had just said, in connection with a resolution earlier today, where there was both a short-term dialogue on what was to be negotiated and also a long-term one. The expectations were probably not so great that the Minister of Transport and the government would do much to discuss the long-term part, as the government has repeatedly resigned. On the other hand, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it makes very good sense to take up the discussions on the things that we have the opportunity and the opportunity to advance, i.e. various capital investments within the state part of the transport. What we are thinking of is that we can see that in some places asphalt work is declining, so there are people who are being sent home, and this also applies to renovation and asphalt work on the main road network in Denmark, also via the municipalities' part of the task. I am also thinking in particular of noise reducing measures. In many places it is, of course, an expressed desire of citizens in particular, who have accommodations relatively close to the motorway network, etc., and we have the whole discussion about brother renovations where there is a list of projects. This is also the case in connection with the bicycle path problem, where there is also a wide range of opportunities to advance capital investment. This is also the case in relation to a number of small works where a construction grant has already been granted. Now that we have the corona crisis and more people are being reported unemployed, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is actually very useful to launch these negotiations on the various works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152833	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152834	When it comes to exactly asphalt, maintenance of installations and new wear layers, it has to be said that the Road Directorate on the roads of the state has quite high maintenance pressure and rather high maintenance standards, and therefore quite extensive asphalt works are also planned over the summer. I regret those who will be bothered by the asphalt works that are coming, but the good news in this context is that it is climate-friendly asphalt, that is, asphalt, that is noise reducing and that also has a better CO2 which is why it is probably not so much exactly asphalt maintenance on the roads of the state, but probably more over on the municipal, there may be some work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152921	Generally speaking, when you have invested in road networks, for example, there is also a capital that is tied in the amount of billions that has been set aside for our road capital and therefore it makes good sense that it has as long a life as possible. This actually means that we believe that it is a very wise place to keep maintenance on a high standard, precisely because the life of the road networks that exist will also be longer. So does the Minister not think it would be a good idea to enter into this kind of agreement on the road side?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610152959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153000	In general, it is a good idea to invest in time, with due care, in terms of replacing wear layers, and the level of state roads is high there. It is also true that municipalities which are lagging behind can easily be found. Now I haven't talked to all the municipalities in the country, and it's not my job either. It's other ministers. But since they've got the fixed ceiling suspended for the current year, one could also imagine that there would be municipalities that would make use of the maintenance. However, as far as the state road network is concerned, it is my impression that we have a rather high standard of maintenance for the asphalt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153042	It is true that a large part of it is of course located in the municipalities, but it also does so in relation to the part that they co-finance, for example on bicycle paths. And another part of the premise is precisely that one could choose to advance investment in relation to the vulnerable road users, not least many of the bicycle path projects which are, in terms of construction, ready to start, but where, of course, there is a need for funding, which includes both municipal and state funds. In fact, municipalities, regions, businesses and citizens all think that this makes sense. Why doesn't the government do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153122	As I have said in the Chamber earlier today, infrastructure investment also makes sense in an economic context where the Danish economy needs to be restored. And, as I also indicated in the Chamber earlier today, the government has not decided whether to make a short-term effort in the form of stimuli combined with a long-term investment plan or whether to think about the two things in context. The government will come back with that once we have taken a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153154	Thank you to the Minister for Transport, and thank you to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then the next question is to the Minister for Development Cooperation, and that has been asked by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153210	What does the Minister think of the situation of persecuted Christians in the Middle East, particularly in Iraq and Syria, where Christian minorities are close to extinction, and what concrete initiatives has the government taken to help this group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153235	First of all, many thanks to the questioner, Mrs Krarup, for the question, and thank you for highlighting this important issue. There is good reason to be concerned about the conditions of religious minorities in Syria and Iraq, including those of Christians. In Syria, at the beginning of the conflict, Christians constituted approx. 10% of the population. Today, according to an estimate, only one third of them remain. In Iraq, many years of war and conflict have allegedly led to an even greater fall. According to some estimates, 8 per cent have gone. to only 1⁄2%. over the past 30 years. The brutal advance of ISIL had significant consequences for religious minorities, not least in Iraq. Denmark went in militarily early to fight ISIL, and we continue to contribute. From the outset, we have contributed to stabilising liberated areas for the benefit of the civilian population. This work is also going on unswervingly under this government through Denmark's regional stability programme for Syria and Iraq. In Iraq, reconciliation and social cohesion are central to future stability. That is why the government supports reconciliation and better social cohesion through contributions to the UN under the Syria-Iraq regional programme. Denmark also supports the UN mine clearance programme so that internally displaced persons, including Christians, Sunnis and Yazidians, can return home. In Syria, Denmark continues to press for an inclusive political process. Christians and other minorities should play an active role and their rights should be safeguarded. We therefore actively call on the opposition to include minority representatives in relevant negotiating delegations. At the same time, Christians should be helped as part of a broader commitment to minority and human rights. Marginalisation of Christians must be seen against the background of the framework conditions, including the regulatory ones, which minority religions are given in many Muslim communities. Denmark is therefore in dialogue with authorities and faith-based organisations in the region about free thought and belief, about discrimination and persecution of minorities and about the possibility of cooperation in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153455	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153458	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Minister shares the concern for Christian minorities, but I do not hear it as a specific concern for Christians I hear it as a concern for all minorities. What I would like to see was for it to be said that Christians are particularly close to us because they share the same faith that we ourselves have. That is why, in the Danish People's Party, we want to do something special for Christians and not just go for freedom of belief in general, but that we are particularly concerned about whether it is now also possible for Christians to unfold and build churches and live a free life. After all, it is very, very worrying to see how the situation has developed, particularly in Iraq and Syria, and the Minister already mentioned the figures, which I myself have, but not as a percentage, but in real terms. I have been told that in Iraq it has gone from 1.5 million Christians in the year 2000 to approx. 200,000 this year 2015. It is Klaus Wivel's book that gives the figures that I find extremely worrying. And it's only gone downhill since then. But the previous government had a certain focus on it. A total of 2 million was set aside. kr. to an office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which focused on religious persecution in North Africa and the Middle East, and a religious and religious freedom forum was established. Have they been continued? In addition, we provide development assistance in Denmark. Why are we not doing this, making counterclaims and saying that the countries that receive our money in aid from developing countries are either bilaterally or multilaterally, but so money from Denmark must meet some requirements for the protection of Christians, and if they do not, we must deprive them of that funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153654	As I also said at the outset, I am really pleased that Mrs Krarup is focusing on this. Because when you see these numbers, you get frustrated and angry about this situation. So this is something we really care about, and I can easily understand that when you are a Christian, that is where you have your primary loyalty. I think that's how many of us think. But the starting point has just been what the word freedom of religion is about: freedom for all. That is why we have a broad approach to this where freedom for all religions is concerned, including the freedom to be unbelievers, which is one of the things that is also oppressed out there. So we do a lot. I had several questions that I cannot answer, but we are continuing our work and we would like to strengthen our efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153749	I am glad to hear that the work is continuing, although I do not think it was apparent from the first answer, but I may be able to clarify that in the next answer. However, where I want to criticise the Minister's position is that one is going solely for general freedom of belief, because we see that Christians are specifically at risk in Muslim countries where it is often part of Islam itself that other religions are not accepted at the same level. Although Christians and Jews have a special position, it is a special position where they stand under the Muslim believer. So Christians in Muslim countries have an exceptionally hard life, and I think that should be specifically pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153831	In fact, when we have dialogue with the various religious parties around the world, we experience time and again that many talk it out: remember, it is not one religion over another, it is all of us, and if we fight for freedom of religion, it is all of us. So that's the spirit we're working on. If, then, there are some that we can see are being particularly exposed in an area, we must of course help in particular there, and so do we with Christians in the Middle East. Mrs Krarup raised the issue of counter-requisites in relation to our development aid, and that is how we see that there is abuse, so we are talking about it from day one. We take it up with the partners we have and point out that we will not put up with it if there are groups that are oppressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153916	However, I do not think it is good enough if one does not have a particular focus on Christians, because, as I said before, if one gives religious freedom to Islam, it is actually almost the same as allowing Christians to be bothered or considered inferior. So you have to look specifically at the Christian group. And one has to say that if there is any abuse there, there is no money from Denmark. Because we are a Christian country and we should have special solidarity with Christians in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610153954	I think it lies in the very concept of freedom of religion that it is freedom for everyone to believe in what you believe in, and also the freedom not to believe if that is what you choose. It would be contrary to the very spirit of the fight for freedom of religion to say that one religion is more important than another. But I admit that when you are a Christian, you feel a stronger commitment when you are Christians. I can easily understand that. I think that's how many of us feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154026	Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation and to Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. The next minister to be asked is the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl with enquires Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154038	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154043	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on Christianity teaching in primary school, and does the Minister think that there may be a need to look at how Christianity teaching can be strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154057	Thank you for the question. Christianity is, as you know, a mandatory subject in primary school, and the purpose of the subject is, among other things, that students should acquire knowledge of Christianity and other religions that enable them to relate to the importance of religion to the perception of life in the individual and human relations. The purpose of the subject is also that pupils should be able to use their competences in relation to personal opinion and co-responsibility and action in a democratic society. As with the other subjects of the Folkeskolen, there is also a specialist group for Christianity under the auspices of the Ministry of Children and Education, which is continuously following the development of the subject. I do not believe that there is a current need to change the framework for teaching Christianity knowledge from a central point of view. With today's framework, I am confident that the skilled teachers and heads of schools in the country's schools will provide good training in the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154150	Now the situation is that the Christianity education of primary school was about to be introduced, you could call it new oxygen to the brain. The previous government set up a advisory group to look at how Christianity education in primary school could be strengthened, and we in the Danish People's Party actually believe that it is a very important thing to get in. I am surprised that the Minister has, of course, taken the decision before the working party had even got anywhere, to dismiss the fact that he has actually condemned the group to not being able to do anything. Doesn't the Minister have a desire and a will to ensure that the Christianity knowledge profession gets the boost it needs? Well, it is the case that Christianity is Denmark's spiritual foundation, and it actually constitutes a cornerstone culturally and historically. And to understand the West and understand Denmark's literature, music, art, ethics etc. is completely impossible without at the same time understanding the Christianity that has been here for more than 1,000 years. It is therefore for us to see in the Danish People's Party that children and young people get the knowledge of Christianity to understand Denmark, in order to understand the Denmark they are part of. It is, of course, also important for the children and young people with Muslim backgrounds who might come from elsewhere to understand the cultural basis of which they are now also part here. After all, it is also about getting the children and young people ready for higher education, to move on in life, and to get the education that makes them actually able to embrace life. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister quite simply: does the Minister not recognise that knowledge of Christianity is a crucial element in the general cultural education of children and young people in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154338	Yes, I accept that. But I don't see any need. We have a great many different councils and boards and all sorts of tasks to do, to which we have basically set up a professional group, in other words to keep up with the progress of Christianity teaching. So I really think that there is no need for it; I do not think there is. I am convinced that the framework for the Christianity profession is fine as it is and that the skilled teachers who are in the field are lifting the task out there. That is why I have not seen any need for such an extraordinary board, where we say: we are now setting up another board or another committee that can sit and work on it. It is simply a question that I did not consider it essential to set up the specific group simply because I could not see the need. The subject is important, the subject exists, the subject is alive, and that means that, to me, there was no need to have the extra selection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154439	Thank you, Minister. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154441	So the Minister does not think there is a need to develop the subject and does not think there is a need to move forward and work on doing it better? I get the idea that perhaps the Minister would like to see the Christianity profession completely removed. And what would we put in place if we weren't to have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154504	In fact, I think some rather wild conclusions are being drawn. In other words, the professional group is there to develop the profession, and that is what it is set up to do, and that means that the thing about having to have more layers of everything, I do not think there is any reason for it. The questioner is always free to raise it in our primary school circle if there are specific things you want to improve or things you want to do about; you are welcome to raise it. But the thing about just having advice and consulting sitting in this context, in my opinion, for the sake of appearance, a place where you have a professional group to develop the profession, I do not think there is any reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154539	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154543	I think it is extremely regrettable that the Minister does not think there is any reason for this. I was actually involved in the work of setting up this group for the refreshment of Christianity teaching under the previous government, and there were voices in favour of it being necessary: that there should be some innovation and that Christianity teaching should be made more interesting and more relevant to young people. I thought that was worth listening to, and that is why I thought it was a great idea with this group, which the Minister has just thrown into the trash without even listening to them. I think that is very wrong. But the Minister says that Christianity is an important subject. Why, then, does the Minister not make this compulsory? Right now, Christianity is the only subject that you can be exempt from, and I find that strange if you actually think that Christianity is an essential subject. And that is what we in the Danish People's Party think it is, also in terms of integration, but of course above all in terms of maintaining the tradition that is existing in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154646	I think there is such a strange understatement of the incredibly talented teachers who teach Christianity every day, and I do not hear any concrete things coming here. It would be interesting if the Danish People's Party actually came up with some concrete things that one believes should be improved or changed. As I hear it, you have been and that is what I could see from the group that you had set up, set up a group with some people to develop on something diffuse without any concrete purpose. I think we have an excellent professional group to deal with that particular task. I and the government, by the way, do not see any need to change the framework of this. I need to hear from the Danish People's Party exactly what the teachers out there are doing wrong. I think it's very diffuse, I have to admit it, and I thought so too when I sat down and looked at this group where you really want to go, other than to say that you think Christianity teaching is important, and I have not really heard anyone in here saying it wasn't. So why you should have this specific group, I just don't understand, but it may be that the questioner can tell me about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154747	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154748	Well, I can do that precisely because I have just heard from people who teach it, and from people who have children who have been taught it, that you would really like to see some new ideas and perhaps some suggestions on how to change the notices, so that you could open up to make it more interesting and relevant and address what you need today. That is why I think there is every need for it. But I did not hear the Minister's reply. Will the Minister make it compulsory, given that the Minister admits that it is a very important subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154820	To the first, i.e. in what way it differs from the professional group, I would say that this is exactly what the professional group has to do. So we have people who carry out the task of going in and looking at whether there are things that need to be changed in announcements or whether things could be done in a different and more present way. In fact, I replied to the second question: no, the government does not have any new initiatives in relation to the framework of the Christianity profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154842	Thank you. Then it is the last round of questions and answers under this point. Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154848	Thank you. At any rate, I hear an agreement that Christianity is an important subject in primary school. It is important for education, it is important for children's development. Then I hear the Minister also saying that the working group set up under the previous government is not really able to see the purpose of this. I think there was a very good purpose in that there was actually a demand to develop the Christianity profession. But what I also hear is that if we then come from the Danish People's Party afterwards and tell the minister that it is that and what has to come out of it, then the minister will be willing to reinstate that working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154929	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610154930	Absolutely not. What I said was that then I was open to discussing it and changing the subject. We have a group working on the development of the Christianity profession, namely the professional group. And that means that no, I do not think it is a good idea with layers on layers, that is to say to have people sitting there who deal with the same thing. It's called pseudowork. I am against that. It's best to give people a job that no one else is already doing. So what this is specifically about for me and that's actually the reason it's taken a little long to make the decision is that I've been trying to dive into what they really are dealing with qualitatively, which is not already being resolved. And since after that, there's a big blank nothing on the exclamation mark... I've shut it down. That's what this is about. So all good suggestions are always welcome in the conciliation circle. If you have good ideas about how to improve something, I'm all ears. But I'm not willing to set up all kinds of advice and boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155015	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who also has to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155024	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155027	Thank you for that, and the question is: how will the Minister ensure that more children and young people placed in care take primary school examinations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155034	This is a very good question, and I am actually particularly pleased that it is being addressed in the Ministry of Children and Education, but I also hope that the questioner will take it up in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, because the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and I are both extremely concerned about the situation in schools, and that lies between the two silos. It has always been a problem of its own: who is responsible for going in and ensuring that something happens in this area? It is one of the biggest failures our society is making year after year that young people are not given the same educational opportunities as everyone else and that so few are taking the final test. What the government has done in the first place, and I am saying in the first place, because I do not believe that there are any simple solutions to this, is to set up an inter-ministerial group, and that in itself is important, that is across the silos, working with the internal schools where part of the children placed are going, and that is only part of the children placed, and therefore it is only part of our attempt to resolve the problem forward-looking. I believe that many more things need to be done which we have not yet started, and that is to say that it is almost like having to answer questions about the aid packages, so that the government cannot deny that this is the first step in the series of many more things that are going to happen there. I believe that we must take this very seriously, and I think it is a question of being incredibly persistent. Because I think that there are a lot of things that need to be done, including the internal schools, which were the first thing we addressed in the Ministry of Children and Education and got set up before corona hit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155213	Thank you. I can then say here that I actually put the question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior in the first place, but was told that it was the Minister for Children and Education who had to answer it, because it had to do with the primary school's examinations. As several of us may have seen, there was a broadcast on Monday evening on the DR, which just showed some of the glaring examples of young people who have been placed, perhaps even most of their lives, and who have never got there to get the primary school's graduation exam, and also how much consequences it has for these young people afterwards in terms of being able to move on in life, and where they also really expressed in the broadcast how great a failure they felt they had suffered. I fully agree that it is a good thing that work has now been started and then, in the first place, we look at internal schools, but we also know a great deal about the fact that many of the young people who go to internal schools actually come from primary school. So you can say that if you have to get to work earlier, maybe it is also the primary school you have to have looked at and whether there are some places where you can do better. In any case, I can say, and this is also what I hear when I speak to representatives from internal schools, that they often receive children, young people who may have attended primary school for many years but who have had an incredibly large absence and who, for that matter, have not been helped on their way if they were dyslexic and so on. So is it also something that the Minister thinks that the government will somehow address, in other words also to examine the wider and not just look at the children and young people in the internal schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155406	Yes, absolutely. I do not think it is enough just to look at the internal schools, I would say, also because there is a connection. A lot of them have been to primary schools in the past, and a lot of them have to go to primary school at a later stage. While I was sitting as social rapporteur, one of the discussions was to make a particular teacher responsible for the pupil who is placed. We have over 10,000 children placed in Denmark, and because it is in the cross-field between social and educational, a child who is placed often falls very much between two chairs, and that means that the primary adult they have in everyday life when they go to school is their teacher. This means that there is something about using some of the social tools in the field of education, and these are some of the things that we, among others, are doing. will look into how to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155453	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155454	In fact, one of the things the young people asked for on Monday evening was that more demands were made on them. They actually felt a little that there were no adults who required them, and it also made it easy for them to fall down between the chairs. Do you think that teachers, even in primary school, are actually dressed well enough to deal with this group of young people too? Or can you do more in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155526	Thank you. And we're gonna have to remember this whole non-indictment thing. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155530	I find that actually difficult to say, because I think the main sin lies in the fact that we have never asked the teachers to do so. In fact, the main sin lies in the fact that when you have a child in a school class, for example, there is no time set aside for you to have an extra obligation and an extra attention to that particular child, although we know that some very special things apply when you are placed. So I would say: I wish we knew; I wish I could answer that question. Because that would mean that we had actually given someone at the school responsibility, which would then have turned out to be a failure. Our failure is that we have given no responsibility at all, and in fact I think that is where we need to get hold of it. Then it may also be that we need to look at qualifications. But it is just to say that I simply think that we need to go deeper if we are to get a real grip on this problem, also in the free schools. This applies not only to the primary schools but also to the primary schools in general, and this also applies when they enter the youth education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155623	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155624	I can then say that I would very much like an answer as to when the Minister expects this working party to be completed and whether it will be something in which the parliamentary rapporteurs, in other words both in the field of education and in the social field, will be involved. Finally, I can also say that there are high schools out there who are specialists in caring for these young people. So I'd like to make an ad for it. I also know that this is the area of the Minister for Culture, but there are, in fact, high schools which are very good at correcting some of these young people and helping them, even if they have not received a final examination, but then help them to get a final examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155708	In fact, because of the corona, I cannot give a precise time for the completion of the internal working group. However, I can say that I myself have begun and have started again in spite of the corona, and that I have therefore met with the social educators this week or last week... the days are flowing a little bit together at the moment... simply to start again on where it is we are going, so start striking a few lines on how we can take the good things from the internal schools and get sorted out from that which does not work so well, and get up to the things that the Ombudsman has had to say, i.e. that there is simply too much between the snaps, in relation to whether we are sure that they will get the quality and teaching that they should have. So I cannot say a precise time for when we are barring with it, but I am trying to push it off as quickly as I can at all, in terms of getting some lines on it, in parallel with that work going on, nor should it prevent us from getting started with the wider primary school. So it's just to say that just as soon as we've had the corona so shaken up, it's one of the things I have the most to heart that we're gonna do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155802	When it is exciting debates, it is difficult to keep to the speaking time, but thank you to Mrs Matthiesen. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Children and Education, and that is what Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155814	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155817	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that egu should not be equal to eud training, such as: has an internship taximeter, is part of the Aub scheme and has recently received an upgrade of workshop facilities due to an imbalance in the Aub system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155839	Yes and no. Yes, because they are not part of the Aub scheme, they simply are not, and therefore they are not part of what has been negotiated there. But no, understood in the sense that it is of course no good that there is the imbalance in the conditions one has in relation to the autumn that we enter, and that therefore one risks leaving a group of egu students on the platform. That is why I have also chosen to try to see if I can solve the problem, and I hope to be able to clarify that in the foreseeable future. So I totally get it. The Left has also taken it up with me in connection with the meetings that we have in the parliamentary follow-up group, and there we have actually come a bit further, which means that right now I am sitting and looking at funding just to be quite specific, and that is something we should also like to find out if we would like to put them on an equal footing with the conditions of the pupils who are under the aub scheme. But the egu students are not part of the Aub scheme, and therefore, right now there are some different conditions for the egu students than for the others. But I certainly think that this is a problem that we need to resolve so that they do not have less opportunities than the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155946	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610155950	Thank you. I believe that the Minister and the undersigned will have to meet a little more in the Chamber, because then I think we would actually be able to solve a great many problems. The last time we met, it was 45 minutes of movement in primary school, and now there's this too. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister can see that there is a challenge, because that is there. When we help, so that eud students get an opportunity to get into internship, also by having been supported, it is precisely the imbalance that is in relation to egu students. I hope that the Minister will also take this into account in the discussions we are going to have, and I very much hope that we will discuss it before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160031	We will certainly discuss it before the summer break. I have the misconception that we will have to get it up to the parliamentary follow-up meeting next time. So it is just because we are standing in this Chamber that we get such a process status on things. But I also very much appreciate the fact that you are lifting these things, and this applies to both the parliamentary follow-up group and here, because I think that, in fact, there are a number of times when we can put a stop to the fact that concrete solutions come from the fact that we are taking these discussions in this way and becoming concrete about what these problems need to be solved. There is a huge need for this, especially here in the coronate, where things move incredibly fast and hundreds of decisions are made on a daily basis. So, of course, there is a need for us to be able to take things this way, and I hope to be able to present a solution to the next parliamentary follow-up meeting, but that requires that things get straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160119	As the Minister also says, things are going really fast. At least there will be some students who get an advantage over others. Those we may leave on the platform are, as the Minister also says, the weakest pupils. However, in the discussions we will have in the future, we will also have to look at whether there is also a general challenge with regard to the egu students. It seems that that number has fallen dramatically, and it is not only because of the corona crisis. But I think that the Minister will also take part in the talks we are going to have in connection with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160150	We can certainly take a more general view of that. Precisely because we have had a period where there have been such major changes in this area, it is basically a good idea to pick up on it. It is both in the light of the corona, but in fact it is also in the light of the corona. But first of all I would like to use the gunpowder to solve the specific problem, because otherwise we will be in that situation, and that is what the questioner also points out: there are some pupils who receive compensation of 90%. with them if they are going to seek an apprenticeship while there are others and that's so the egu students aren't getting it. In fact, it is not because they have been forgotten, but because they are not part of the Aub scheme. So what I am trying to do now is simply get the money that would be needed. I will come back with this and present it in the parliamentary follow-up group so that we can make the agreements together in that forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160232	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160233	Exactly as far as the economy is concerned, it appears to be 20-25 million. kr., if you have to lift the egu agreements or at least have the same level of support for the students who are there. I think it should be the sum of money we have to find. Of course, we expect to have the invitation to discuss this further before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160258	That's right. And for those who are not used to dealing with those very large amounts we do it in here, it is so that when they say 20-25 million. kr., it is, at least in the Ministry of Children and Education's area, a manageable size. Therefore, it should also be manageable to find funding, but I just need to get the details straightened out. And we are not going to stand here and negotiate on the proposals either. We do that in other forms. It's just to say that we are really far in the process, and that is why, to the best of my knowledge, there is no likelihood that we will make it to the summer holiday without a solution unless, of course, you get in the way, but that doesn't sound like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160326	We never do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160328	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Stén Knuth, and we thank the Minister for Children and Education. That was the end of the question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Defence by Mr. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160341	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160342	Thank you, Mr President. Does the Minister agree that it should generally be up to a court to assess whether websites should be closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160355	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160356	I assume that in the question reference is made to the article from Jyllands-Posten, which deals with cyberattacks during the corona crisis, and where I reply that, in view of the large number of false pages that aim to steal information from companies and private individuals, I want to discuss the temporary legislation on blocking websites with the Folketing. That is why I very much appreciate the fact that the questioner raises the issue here in the Folketing. It was precisely my business to discuss and discuss experiences, attitudes and challenges in the name of freedom of expression. Let me start by answering whether it should be up to our courts to assess whether there is a basis for blocking a website: it is my opinion that this should be the case. That is exactly how it is today, under the temporary legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament at the beginning of April. In particular cases, the law allows for the possibility of blocking a website without having obtained a court order in advance. It is in cases where the purpose of the procedure would otherwise be lost. The police will then have to bring the case to court, as is the case with other types of orders. However, this is not the same as extending this legislation to websites in general, but I think we owe it to discuss it, not least in view of the fact that we are experiencing ever more websites that have the sole purpose of deceiving information from companies and citizens. It can have fatal consequences for both companies and citizens when they are exposed to this type of crime. We have seen many examples of this. For some companies, it has had huge financial costs. So to sum up, I think it is only responsible to take the discussion on whether a court order should give the police better opportunities to block fake websites used to commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160545	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160547	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I would like to acknowledge the fact that taking the discussion is, of course, always important on any point. What may be the provocation in taking the debate on this is that it is, of course, part of our constitution that you can be allowed to act in the way you act, and then it is the courts that decide whether something should be closed or not closed. That's what the Minister's a little bit of a whip about. Then there is another thing in it, which is perhaps also a bit provocative from a legislative point of view, and that is that it is playing a little on the fear of being hacked. And that's where we know it's a lot easier to be one to decide everything. It's a lot easier to be one than being many to decide. But that is not the case; that is, we are a democracy and we have a lot of freedoms, and if we like compromise with it and let one decide instead of the many and do not allow our courts to speak in relation to the legislation, then that is what we compromise with these things. I recognise, of course, that it must always be discussed, but now it is not the Minister for Defence who is responsible for the whole thing that has been some examples on the part of the government, for example. storing DNA without explicit consent, allowing the police to intrude on private property without a warrant, and now also the closing of websites without a warrant. It may just be said, but it is really important when a minister says so. That is why I have to ask: does the Minister share my and the Left's view that restrictions on the legal certainty of the Danes should not be introduced just because it is effective?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160802-2	I do not know where the claim that I should have said that I want to close websites without a warrant comes from. Well, I didn't say that anywhere. I know there are some who would like to give me the view, that is, that I should mean it, but that does not change the fact that I have nowhere said it, and that the temporary legislation that exists today, which allows the authorities to close websites during the Corona crisis, is attached to justice. I would like to reply again that my position is clear: it must be the case that Danish courts are in the process of closing websites; I think this is worth a discussion, including here in the Danish Parliament, but that I should have argued anywhere that there should be no judge who has to deal with such an intervention, I do not buy it, because I have not said that anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160856	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160856-2	Thank you. What I understand is that the Minister has perhaps been misquoted somewhere and that the meaning has been misunderstood. I can only say that when you read what the Minister is quoted for, what you see is that you compromise the freedoms that exist. And that is what the article also says. That is why I have to ask the Minister: does the Minister agree that in a rule of law it is extraordinary to allow authorities to close websites without the blessing of the courts? That must be easy to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610160949	Well, frankly, I think it's a little grotesque if I have to answer something I haven't said. Now I have the article here, and it says nowhere that I say that websites should be closed without a warrant. And even the temporary legislation, which has been introduced temporarily and has a sunset clause, is also tied to judicial review. I know that there are some people who would like to give me that view, but I have not said that anywhere. On the other hand, I have said and I would like to quote from the article here that I would like to have a discussion with the Danish Parliament, but that it is a delicate balance between freedom of expression and legal certainty. And it is precisely that I am saying that these are not just interventions that can be made; this is about those interventions that have a judicial system built into them. However, I cannot find anywhere that I should have said that there should not be this judicial review, and that is quite simply because I believe that there should actually be I believe that, just like in the physical world, where we also provide the authorities with tools to act on it, we should do so in the digital world, but with respect for the freedom of expression that exists and with respect for our courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161114	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161114-2	You can then also see in the article that e.g. Danish Industry says that they will certainly not be interested in that, so that, what to say, you gave more power to the authorities. I'm just saying what's in this context. And I actually welcome the fact that the Minister is taking such a little over the fact that I am asking about it. But we must also look at it in relation to the fact that what we are touching is the rights guaranteed by the constitution, and I must therefore ask the Minister: are there areas other than this area which the Minister wishes to discuss more in depth with the parties of the Folketing, in the same way as, for example, there are areas where the Minister wishes to discuss more closely with the parties of the Folketing? This hacking website thing? Anything coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161200-2	I would like to say two things. I think it is quite important, if we are to hold a proper level of debate, that we are based on what people are actually saying and not on what they think they are saying or what somebody else is saying. I think it is important that we, at least in the Folketing, keep on track in relation to it, otherwise I think we will have some unfair debates. The second thing that I think is absolutely central and that I would very much like to discuss with the parties of the Folketing is the challenge we have with companies and citizens who are being robbed and who are being deprived of information. We have to make sure that this is something that is going on. Then there may be many different answers to how we solve it. I myself have set up a new council which is a combination of private and public authorities and which must find better answers to it. There may also be some tools, and I do not want to dwell on that, but we need to be able to discuss the issue we see and which costs both citizens and businesses a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161259	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. The next question is to the Minister for Defence, and it is asked by Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161306	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161308	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that some of Denmark's most vulnerable veterans have had a particularly hard time here during the Coronapandemic, where social contact for many has been limited, and has the Minister specifically launched some initiatives during the period to help this group of veterans?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161329	I would like to thank you very much for this question, because I am deeply concerned that we are looking after our veterans. They have made a very special effort to look after us, and that is why we must look after them. Therefore, at the beginning of April, I sent a letter to all approx. 39,000 registered veterans. In the letter, I called for them to contact the Veteran Centre if they or their families needed support or help. And I encouraged the veterans who had a surplus to do so to give an extra hand to the particularly vulnerable veteran it could be by offering practical help with shopping, an encouragement, an offer for a walk in the woods or sending a greeting to social media. In addition, I asked our veteran center to extend an extra hand to the veterans and to pay extra attention to when someone is looking for help, whether the call comes from the veteran himself or from the family. Against this background, the Veteran Centre has made extensive additional efforts. Among other things: all veterans considered by the Veteran Centre to be in a special risk group have received a security call, and the Veteran Centre has intensified and adapted the outreach efforts in relation to the most vulnerable veterans, including the homeless. There has also been an increased effort from the Veteran Centre's family unit in relation to vulnerable families. Recognizing the important role of municipalities in veteran efforts, all municipal veteran coordinators have been made aware of the potential challenges of vulnerable veterans as a result of the corona situation. I have been particularly pleased that my letter to the veterans prompted several veterans to approach the Veteran Centre with offers and support for other veterans. It shows a very special unity where veterans have each other's backs. Of course, these offers have been communicated to the Veteran Centre. Again, I would like to stress that our veterans have contributed to the great community, and we owe them and their families a great deal of thanks for the fact that we Danes live in one of the world's most free and secure societies. That is why we must take good care of those who have taken good care of us, including during the corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161527	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161529	Thank you very much for that answer. I am very pleased to hear that, because we know that the majority of veterans are doing fine when they get home, but we have a tiny group that is particularly vulnerable, and that is what we need to take care of. It is also very good that the Minister has sent out a letter saying that we could take care of each other, so that the strong could take care of the less strong. Because you just have to tell it that those who have the most difficulty get a letter in e-Boks that they probably don't open e-Boks I can't imagine that they do so we have to make sure we fence it in. And it also sounds like we're at least on our way there. Now I am a veteran rapporteur and I would have liked that information to have been provided. Because we in the Danish People's Party are also very interested in veterans, and I know that there will also be something later, where we will like to look at it with veterans. So what I really want to ask is: how has it been in the time when you could not really get out very much? Now it's opening up more, and we're coming out. What about psychologists, consultations and conversations? Are they coming out to these extra vulnerable? Are we gonna get them? That is what I am interested in, and it is not at all to set something in motion; it is really due to an interest on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161709	I would like to thank you again for the question and I think it is very important that we can discuss and talk about these groups, which it is so important that we deal with. And what has happened in relation to the Corona situation is that some veterans have actually got better because they have not experienced that pressure from society. So some have got a better everyday life, while others have gotten worse because there have been some offers they have not been able to benefit from. I would also like to say that it has been a very hard time for some of the families of the particularly vulnerable veterans to be at home with a sick spouse or father. And that's why I've been glad that we managed to establish the family unit and that it's been open this time. The physical appearances have been closed down to some extent, but the most vulnerable have been offered, and there have also been telephone and video meetings and the kind that we know from the rest of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161819	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161820	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister has taken care of it as well as it sounds. I'd have thought we'd been involved, but that's what it is. What I would just like to ask now is whether the Minister is looking at it in such a forward-looking way with those who have had the particular challenges during the Corona period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161848	It has been received that there should have been greater political involvement. I'll take that with me. I mentioned this to the defence committee, but I know that there are others who also have a veteran interest. So it is received that something can come out in writing there too. I would say that we are facing a major evaluation of our veteran work and it is well on the way. And then it is my opinion that we should at least make some adjustments to our veteran efforts, because we have many, many offers aimed at the same groups of veterans. But the very small vulnerable group, which it is really difficult to reach, we do not have very many offers that are aimed at. So when we come back on the other side of the summer and are about to expand our veteran efforts, expand it and I think that is quite fair to do after 10 years, while I think it is embarrassing that we have only had a veteran effort for 10 years. It is quite reasonable that we look for if there are any places where we need to focus on specific target groups, and this is precisely about this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161947	Thank you. Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610161949	Well, all I can say is that I'm very happy. And I look forward very much to looking at this again, because, as the Minister says, it is very important. And it's the little group that has the hardest thing to look at. I am very pleased about that, so I really do not have one last question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162009	Well, I just want to say thank you and that I look forward to discussing this further, because I think it is important too. Our veterans have given so much for Denmark, and therefore it is important that they experience that it is a collective parliament that wants them and that makes sure that there are offers for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162023	Then we thank Mrs Lise Bech. And we also thank the Secretary of Defense. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Education and Research, which has been asked by Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162045	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162047	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for coming to answer questions here today. The question is simple: will the Minister take into account regional positions of strength in connection with the ongoing cluster consolidation in the field of business promotion?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162103	Thank you for the question. The answer is yes, the clusters must include both quality and availability as assessment criteria. One criterion is that the clusters are of high quality and suitability, and that they play a role in relation to the specific innovation needs and challenges for companies in the target group. Another criterion is that they are available to their target audience across the country. In addition, it is a prerequisite for the funds to be allocated from the Danish Business Promotion Board that the activities support the realisation of the board's strategic focus, which among other things. stresses that the cluster effort is organised in respect of the relevant business forces and potentials. So, overall, I would say quite clearly that it is a weakness if an applicant does not take into account regional positions of strength. The whole point of the cluster effort is that there must be good and relevant opportunities for knowledge collaboration for companies throughout It is absolutely crucial for me, because it must not be a company's geographical location that determines whether its opportunities to collaborate on innovation and knowledge transfer are good or bad. We do not have the full picture yet, but from the preliminary examination of the applications, it seems at present that a predominance of the clusters is anchored in Copenhagen and in the metropolitan area. I see this as a challenge for the geographical coverage of clusters' activities. As I mentioned before, the new clusters must be available to their target audience across the country. It's part of the post. The regional coverage will therefore be part of what the Danish Agency for Institutions and Education and the secretariat of the Danish Business Promotion Board will now look at in connection with the assessment of applications and enter into dialogue with the applicants. If, in connection with the current listing, we do not find a satisfactory solution in terms of regional coverage from a holistic point of view and across the clusters, I am extremely willing to reverse the announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162333	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162338	Thank you very much for that answer. I have actually been interested in this for a while, and I asked the Minister earlier by e-mail and received an answer on 26 March, where the Minister explains that the geographical location of the cluster organisations is not why I am glad that this development has taken place in relation to the fact that geography is now being taken into account. But does this simply mean that geography and the positions of strength that may be held in the individual regions will have an impact on the location of the different clusters?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162422	In the meantime, as a minister, I have been able to signal strongly on the basis of the picture we have so far on the basis of the applications, is that one thing is the individual cluster and their arguments for having adapted in the way they have once applied for, but another thing is the overall picture across when you look beyond the new clusters. That is where we must insist politically that it is distributed throughout Denmark, as a mirror of the fact that we also have strong businesses throughout Denmark. I think we should insist on that, at least as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162501	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162502	Well, actually, I'm getting more and more fond of the answers. As I look at the composition of the clusters there are several different kinds of clusters, I think it is probably the Minister's knowledge that we in North Jutland have a very strong maritime environment. So, Blue Denmark is really, really strong in North Jutland. We have Denmark's largest fishing port • over half of the fish caught in Denmark enter North Jutland. It is therefore a huge fishing activity. We have a shipyard, both with new construction and with repair, which provides great shipbuilding activity. And we also have a lot of research activity. So I would hope that the Minister will put emphasis on it when the maritime cluster is to be placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162554	I hear this most of all as a call to me and thanks for the commitment to the matter in terms of actually ensuring a Denmark in balance, including in terms of business policy. I am aware of the positions of strength that are both in North Jutland and elsewhere in the country. However, at this stage, when the process is under way, I cannot comment on the individual applicants. The only thing I can say here and now is that, after a general view, it looks too wrong, and that is why we have entered into dialogue with the candidates who have entered to get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162625	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162626	In other words, it may be a little difficult to understand whether those positions of strength which you then have in the individual region will gain the weight that I think they should have, because that has obviously not been the case for the first post. If there is now a new notice, would it be a notice in which one can expect that one would suggest that the positions of strength that one has in the individual region will also be weighted against what has been the case in the first post?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162657	There's nothing I'm saying that's a comment on the individual application in the more than, as far as I remember, 3,000 pages covered by this entire application field. I have not dealt with the content and the suitability of the individual application. That's what executives are doing. They put an attitude on me, and then I take a position. What I am dealing with as the top politically responsible is the overall picture. And right now it's just drawing to get way too crooked... that's what we need to fix.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162728	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Per Larsen. The question is closed. Then we move on to the next question by the Minister for Education and Research, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162738	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162740	Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that refugees with temporary protection status under Section 7 of the Aliens' Act should be treated as refugees with temporary protection status? 3, is still not entitled to free higher education, and will the Minister change this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162758	Thank you for the question. No, I do not think it would be appropriate for refugees to be subject to Article 7 (7). 3, does not have the same right to education as refugees who reside within the meaning of § 7 (1). 1, or § 7, para. 2. This is not least due to the fact that there is an equal opportunities challenge in the current situation. Refugees covered by Section 7 of the Aliens Act 3, are mainly women, and today they do not have the same opportunities to take an education as refugees covered by § 7 para. One and two, mostly men. I recognise that this is a very small group we are talking about. It is assumed that with adjustments of this kind there will be, on average, 86 persons in higher education from the group. However, as I said, the government considers it appropriate for us to have equality regardless. It is also clear from the political understanding paper that the government will ensure access to training for refugees with a residence permit under § 7 (a) above. 3. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has also confirmed to the Danish Parliament that the Government wishes to adjust the temporary protection status scheme so that refugees are covered by Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, is given the same right to take a higher education as other refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162918	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610162920	I am very pleased to hear that the Minister also sees this challenge as I do. Because although it may not be a great many people we are talking about, it does mean a great deal to the people who are being covered. And, of course, they must also have access to education and access to be better able to contribute to our society and develop, just as everyone else does, and I think, in exactly the same way as the Minister, that it is really a pity that right now we have a rule that means that women in particular do not have the same access to free higher education as the male refugees have and I think, of course, that everyone should have access to free higher education. So this group of women refugees has been waiting for a very long time now to be allowed to have the same access, and I do not think they should wait any longer. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister will guarantee that § 7 (1). 3 refugees will be admitted to higher education at the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163038-2	This is about giving a group the right to what the others already have. I expect that changes to the regulation in the field of higher education will be possible with effect from 1 July.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163058	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163059	Thank you so much. I look forward very much to seeing that these refugees in § 7 paragraph 7. The three-year scheme will also have access to higher education as early as the summer. I know a lot of people have been waiting for that, that is to say, to get the positive answer, so thank you very much. It will be so little limited how long they have to apply. Does the Minister have any ideas on how we can draw attention to the fact that they will be able to apply this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163131	The deadline is 5 July to apply for quota 1 for our higher education, which is precisely what we can achieve. I am sure there will be quite a few who are entitled and will be able to do so. But it is, of course, part of changing a notice to also point out that the possibility is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163151	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163152	In fact, I would just like to say thank you in the end for finally getting something done about this. I have been pushing for a long time and I am really glad that we have come here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163209	Well, there wasn't much question about it but a receipt for us to correct an equality gap. And that is something we can only welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163215	Then we thank Mrs Katrine Robsøe and we thank the Minister for Education and Research. Then I would like to inform you that Questions 36, 37 and 38 have been deleted. The next question is Question 39 to the Minister for Industry, but as we lack the Minister for Industry, we have to postpone the meeting for at least five minutes for the time being, or until the Minister for Industry shows up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163502	Then the meeting is resumed, now that the Minister for Industry has settled. And I would just like to say that the reason why the Minister for Business is a little late is that there are a great many issues that have come to an end today, and then it is difficult to take the time, in relation to when it is now the next minister is due. So maybe the minister is a little innocent. At least that was nicely said here today. But now it's a question from Mr. Kim Valentin, Left, to the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163532	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163535	I'm reading slowly so the minister can breathe. What is the Minister's view that the City of Copenhagen has so far lost 4.25 billion? kr. in lost turnover from foreign tourists, and what will the Minister do to ensure Copenhagen tourist companies that are currently in an extraordinarily vulnerable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163556	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163559	Thank you for the question and also thank you for understanding this particular situation. There is no doubt that the corona crisis leaves a deep mark both in Danish society and in the Danish economy. And there is no doubt that the tourist industry is very badly affected by the situation, not least, of course, the tourist industry here in the capital. Fortunately, today we have the infection so much under control that we have had the opportunity to reopen very large parts of Danish society again. Most recently, at the beginning of this week, a political agreement has been reached on phase 3 of the reopening process, and I hope that will help to boost consumption in Copenhagen too, where people have once again come out to the restaurants and cafes in the city picture. From 15 June, we have also opened the way for tourists from Germany, Norway and Iceland to enter the country. I am quite aware that, unfortunately, it will not initially benefit the tourist industry in Copenhagen, both because it will not be opened to tourists who want to stay in Copenhagen, but also because the German and Norwegian summer tourists visit other parts of Denmark very much. Now that we have chosen to move forward in this way, it is to ensure that we do not jeopardise the good results that we have achieved. We have seen both at home and abroad how the infection can spread particularly rapidly in densely populated areas. I am fully aware that the remaining restrictions mean that some companies are still prevented from running their business. This also applies to parts of the tourist industry in Copenhagen, which, as I said, are affected by the restrictions on entry. The government, together with the Danish Parliament and the social partners, has implemented historically large aid packages which have just been designed to hold hands under companies and employees in this situation. This weekend we have agreed on a phasing-out plan for the wage compensation scheme with the social partners, which means that it will run until 29 August. Similarly, we are currently negotiating with Parliament's parties on the phasing out of the other aid packages on the basis of the recommendations of the Economic Expert Group, which submitted their report on 27 May 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163811	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610163813	Thank you and thank you for your answer, Minister. But I will be even more puzzling if possible, because I am not asking about all these things that are around Copenhagen. I ask about the City of Copenhagen, the municipality of Frederiksberg and their problems with these rules that have just come in connection with phase 3, i.e. the fact that you are not allowed to enter and stay in a hotel in the City of Copenhagen and then go down to the street and experience Copenhagen. But you can stay in the municipality of Rødovre, which is located just outside, and you can also stay in Gentofte and elsewhere as long as it is not Frederiksberg and the municipalities of Copenhagen. And then you can go down to the metro and bus and all sorts of other public transport and allow yourself to be transported back and forth, so you could say, even more possibility of infection, if it were the case that there was an infection. So it's kind of incomprehensible for these companies not to open, but to open right outside Copenhagen. Well, there are some things that may not be entirely connected. I'm gonna put some numbers in place, too. In 2017, we invested 128 billion in Denmark. kr. In this area. 40% of it was in the capital. 60,000 jobs in the Capital Region are there in this. So that's not the kind of change we're talking about. Will the Minister tell me the logic of foreign tourists walking around the capital but not being allowed to book an overnight stay in the same place?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164002	The government is concerned that we are not keeping Denmark closed or limited for a day longer than is necessary, and therefore the restrictions we are making are about being able to control and limit the risk of spread of infection. That is why we have chosen to say that in densely populated parts in our capital there are some other restrictions for guests coming out of a world where the pressure of infection is significantly different from the pressure of infection in Denmark. Having said that, we are discussing these days with Parliament's parties the phasing out of the aid packages and, of course, how we, for those professions which are particularly seasonal and particularly dependent on, for example, those sectors. tourists, can make an effort so that summer becomes as good for them as it can in the given situation. So we are aware of the challenges of the professions, but we are also very aware of keeping the infection under control, and it is in that light alone that the restrictions that have been imposed should be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164110	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164111	However, I find that the Minister is talking a little bit about it now, because there are therefore some companies at risk of closing down. It's a very hard business. The City of Copenhagen alone had 9 million overnight stays corresponding to 16 per cent. of the total number of nights spent in Denmark. I do not think that you as the director of a hotel in Copenhagen are particularly sympathetic to the view that you can stay in a hotel in Rødovre, but you can't stay in a hotel in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg. Can the Minister understand if tourist companies in Copenhagen feel cheated on the opening up of society that has been given to other parts of Denmark and that it is reinforced when there is no health professional recommendation behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164204	I find that the Danish business community understands that in this difficult situation for Denmark we must be careful that we keep the infection under control all the time. Because if the opposite situation arises, we risk a situation where renewed restrictions will come into being and it will be harder and harder for more professions to be able to operate. I would just like to say about taking a stay in Copenhagen when you are here: Well, we have seen both at home and abroad, how the infection can spread particularly quickly in densely populated areas, and therefore it is quite simply a matter of not wanting to put too many people together in too little space in the current situation. I mean, it's about reducing the risk of spreading infection, we don't want anything but that. On the other hand, we are aware that it has some challenges for some professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164251	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164252	I'm really listening actively, but there's still no such medical evidence for this. I can say that Jonas Bjørn Jensen, the political rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party here in the City of Copenhagen, has said that he has not met anyone who, with anything other than guts, has been able to tell why this decision has been taken to exclude Copenhagen and Frederiksberg from foreign overnight stays. Stomach feelings, that is, is it really the case that the government wants to rekindle society on the basis of gut feeling?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164330	We make political decisions, and we make many of them in this situation and with great haste to take good care of Denmark. To take good care of Denmark is to be able to control the risk of infection with the virus that is visiting our country. And then I have to say that we have seen both at home and abroad how densely populated areas have a particular risk of spreading infection. We need to take this seriously. And that's what we're taking stock of in this situation. And as a government, we are aware that it has a price for some professions, and that is where we negotiate with the parties in the Folketing about solutions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164407	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin. The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Industry has been asked by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164415	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164417	Thank you, sir. President. Will the Minister, referring to the Government's announcement on Friday, 29 May 2020, where all travel to a large number of countries was discouraged at least until the end of August, explain the government's assessment of the situation of Danish tour operators, travel agencies and online travel portals and indicate whether the Minister believes that the many thousands of customers are currently experiencing a satisfactory situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164450	Thank you very much for the question. It is important for me to make it clear that Danish consumers have the same rights as they have always had, namely that the tour operator has to pay the money for the cancelled journey back. The challenges in the travel industry and the situation faced by many consumers are quite extraordinary, which is why, in cooperation with the contract circle, the government has also set up a working group to look at how consumers and the package travel industry are best ensured in both the short and the longer term. We also agreed in the circle that we in the European Union will work for the temporary introduction, during the Corona crisis, of a compulsory voucher scheme. As the obligation to reimburse the consumer arises from the EU Package Travel Directive, it was a prerequisite that the EU was given the possibility to derogate from this obligation. The Commission has subsequently stressed that it is not possible to depart from the obligations of the Package Travel Directive, and on that basis we have considered that this would not be the right way to go. That is why it is not possible to give compulsory vouchers to consumers, and it is still something that consumers can choose to accept, but then it is on a voluntary basis. I would like to stress once again that consumers' rights are the same as they have always been, in other words that the tour operator must pay the money for the cancelled journey back. The government, together with a broad majority of Parliament's parties, has also concluded an agreement on a separate package of assistance for the travel industry and thus also for consumers. The agreement includes, inter alia: an economic boost of 725 million. kr. The agreement also extends the possibility for travel providers to cover actual costs related to cancelled and cancelled package travel until 31 May 2020. This means that package travel providers will be provided with a financial contribution and a loan for a longer period of time, which will help them properly repay consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164657	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164658	Thank you for your reply. I fully agree with the political agreements that lie in the situation we are in. However, what I have put to the Minister about is not so much what the parties and the government have done, but it is more how the things we have set in motion have been received by consumers and how they have been received by the parties, by the tour operators and by the stakeholders in this area. As I have also written to the Minister, there should be a statement on the government's assessment of the situation. I mean, about it, like, sir. and Mrs. Denmark experiences in relation to getting their money back, is experienced as satisfactory. Can we see whether the sums that people are entitled to in relation to the EU Package Travel Directive, etc., will be refunded?? And do we see that the help we have given, the help that has been given to tour operators and travel agencies, is also received and useful for the industry? In my opinion, therefore, it is still the case that we are facing a major liquidity challenge in relation to the fact that tour operators, if they like, do not have the liquidity to pay back. And that is perhaps why we are seeing many people turn to politicians and say: why can't we get our money back, because we have a legitimate right to do so? That is why I have chosen to put this question to the Minister, in other words simply to have an assessment of how things are going with the initiatives that we have taken together I recognise that, and we are quite happy with them. But we need to know whether they are in good shape and whether they are being followed to the door in a fair and sound manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164900	If I first try to give an assessment of the consumer's situation, I would say that I was also trying to stress in my reply that here consumers are just as well placed today as they were one week or one month ago: you have the right to get your money back for a cancelled package. At the same time, my assessment is that there have been doubts out there, both in the travel industry and also among consumers, as to whether this was the case now, and that is why I felt the need to stress it here today. At the same time, it is my assessment and I share it with this group of experts, who have just reported to our agreement group that the allocated economy of 1.5 billion. kr. in the guarantee framework and an exceptional grant of 725 million. kr., is sufficient to, under all the uncertainties that are, be able to help the industry through until the end of August.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164952	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610164952-2	I think that is actually very good, that is to say we have that approach, and of course I share the Minister's view that we found an appropriate amount of liquidity, that is to say money, but also some state guarantees in relation to the Travel Guarantee Fund and so on. But I just still experience some concern about the part that is then called to perform the model when the money is to be paid out and the customers must have the money back that the right people are entitled to. At the same time, we would also like to keep a safe hand under the 600 companies, which also have many thousands of employees in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165041-2	I only experience that we share the desire to find a solution where consumers are sure to be able to get the money they have out to swim, if I can use that expression while as many as possible in the travel industry can come through the corona crisis. This challenge exists both in the short term over the summer, because with the travel restrictions that are in order to take good care of Denmark, it creates some challenges, but it also exists in the slightly longer term, and here, as a government, we are putting forward a slightly more detailed discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties on whether we have the right security arrangements for both the industry and consumers in the longer term. We will take political negotiations with the parties of the Folketing on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165125	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165126	That is also true, and we thank you very much for that. However, that does not change the fact that liquidity is under great pressure and, in my opinion and the indicators that I note at least, liquidity is still the major challenge for many of these 600 companies. And when liquidity is not working, it doesn't work with customers' legal requirements, and that's the way things are, like, connected. I am, of course, reassured by the interest shown by the Minister in finding a good solution to this matter and by the fact that we are also following up the political agreements that we have concluded. However, at the end of my term, I do not think that I feel quite sure about whether the government has followed up on whether the initiatives we have put into the sea are in good shape throughout the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165224	In any case, I would like to make sure, together with the rapporteur and other parties, that they are in good shape. Because we share the wish that our travel industry gets through the corona crisis as far as possible, and that is why it has been an encouraging reading, I would say that the group of experts, which we have jointly set up, actually says that on the basis of the features of the guarantee framework and so on. From the point of view of the travel industry, it is actually the assessment that the things we have jointly put in the sea to help the travel industry with all the uncertainties that are now • will be able to reach the end of August. And that citizen, if only for a good basis, to conduct our further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165307	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby, and thank you to the Minister for Business. The next person who has asked questions is Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left, and it is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165321	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165322	Does the Minister still think that it is a good idea to introduce the ceiling on non-Western immigrants that the Social Democratic Party promised before the elections last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165336	Yeah, I think that's a good idea. It is one of our main priorities that the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark is controlled, and the government is firmly committed to pursuing the immigration policy on which we have been elected and on which we also have an experience of a broad majority, both the Folketing and the people supporting it. It is a policy that must ensure that there is no more here than we can integrate and that our welfare society can keep up. Right now, the entry figures are astounding and historically low, but although the figures are low, it remains the Government's ambition to implement a ceiling on how many non-western foreigners Denmark can accept every year. It is our vision that the ceiling should be set in cooperation with the municipalities, and it is true that such a ceiling was not included in this year's municipal agreement which was concluded a short time ago, but this municipal agreement from this year must of course also be seen in the light of the corona crisis, which is one of the biggest crises that has been in the last 100 years. The task of this year's municipality agreement has therefore been to ensure that municipalities do not get a large extra cost as a result of the crisis. I think that this has also been the right priority. Although it was not included in this year's municipal agreement, the government will continue to work to implement such a ceiling on the number of foreigners from non-western countries, because we believe it has given rise to integration challenges. But, finally, to sum up: we still think it is a good idea and we are still going to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165503	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165504	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister confirms that he still thinks this is a good idea. In fact, the Minister goes a little further, because the Minister says it must be one of the Minister's main priorities. It then collides just a little bit with the fact that the government has now had two economic negotiations with the municipalities, and not once has this ceiling been brought on the field so two missed chances of getting one of its main priorities through. It is a little bit too bad, and it is a little bit strange if it is really a main priority for the government. The Minister makes it sound as if it is a difficult negotiation with the municipalities; that it is long, complicated negotiations where the municipalities sit and resist. But I think it is not the majority of municipalities that will fight against getting fewer refugees sent than before. It has also been said, and it was in this way the Prime Minister who said it before the elections, and now I quote: "The municipalities of the country must tell how many they think they can actually integrate. And then the Folketing sets a ceiling on the basis of it. So it is not in some difficult negotiation. You have to ask the National Association of Municipalities, the municipalities, for a figure, and then the Folketing sets a ceiling. Why has the government not brought this up since two specific economic negotiations have been held with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165619	I would like to start by saying that what is one of the government's top priorities is to manage the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark. That's what I said. But that does not change the fact that it is a priority and that it is our policy to establish a ceiling on immigration from those countries where we believe there are the greatest challenges for integration. Nor does it change the fact that this is something we intend to do in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165643	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165644	But why hasn't the Minister brought it up? Why has the government not brought this up with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165652	This is because in the first two municipal agreements we have had other priorities. At the first we had just joined, and at the second it was about dealing with the very acute and current crisis in connection with the covid-19 that we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165704	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165705	So the Minister promises that the government will take this up in the next debate on economics with the municipalities, or how can that be understood? I would still like to say that I think it is a little strange that you can call it a top priority, a priority I think the Minister used both words and then you have not given it priority enough to be able to take it to the negotiations. But will the Minister at least promise that the government will take it with it next time the economy is to be negotiated with the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165735	I dare not promise what is being taken up next time the economy is to be negotiated with the country's municipalities, but I dare promise that it is a priority for the government to get it implemented because we think it is right to implement it. There is no secret that it is not quite simple to link it together, because it must also make sense in the real world, but it is a priority to implement it, and we intend to pursue it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165755	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin. No, we're not saying thank you to Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin is still here, because it's also Mr. Hawkins. Morten Dahlin, who has asked the next question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It's just a new question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165812	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165813	Thank you, President. Does the Minister share the Prime Minister's view that the Redeemer's Convention protects the wrong people, i.e. Foreign fighters, and do you have the wrong content, as the Prime Minister said last year in November?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610165830	Thank you very much for the question. Of course, I share the Prime Minister's opinion and it fell in the context of a discussion of foreign fighters and, of course, must also be seen in the light of what the questioner himself has said. We are committed to fighting foreign fighters and have since the government's formation carried out a series of austerity measures in this particular area. In the view of the government, Denmark, as a small country, has a clear interest in supporting the international legal order, which is the basis of international cooperation, and therefore we do not denounce any conventions of which we are a part. The Prime Minister also said so in connection with the statement to which reference is made. Whether a convention then has a correct or wrong content is, in my view, a political issue and a complex issue, but sometimes we are left with the idea that certain conventions can provide protection for people on the wrong basis. Conversely, the idea of conventions is to provide fundamental protection for all people covered by each convention. It is important not to amend a convention such as the stateless Convention in a way that completely undermines the protection afforded by the Convention. However, Denmark must say this loud and clear when we believe that the Convention leads to results that cannot be explained or defended, and that is why we have also decided to enter into dialogue with relevant organisations and like-minded countries. We have also announced this to partners. The dialogue must be based on the government's view that, in some cases, the protection of conventions against statelessness, including the stateless convention, is too far-reaching. This has quite specifically been the case in cases of foreign fighters. The government is fully aware that it is very difficult to change the international rules of the game. As you know, my own predecessor also tried unsuccessfully to seek support to amend the stateless Convention. So it is not to say that it is easy, but I think it is important that we take the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170012	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170013	That was an interesting reply from the Minister. Now I must be careful not to overinterpret, so I should now spend my time here asking the Minister so that I can get a clear answer. Do I understand that what the Minister is saying is that the government has now entered into a dialogue with a number of other countries to amend the stateless convention in order to facilitate the fight against foreign fighters? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170047	It must be understood that we are in favour of complying with the international rules of the game, but we are also in favour of not being seen as religious texts carved in granite and of course being debatable if you think they are working in the wrong way. That is why we have reached out to relevant organisations and like-minded countries and announced relevant partners about it, and it is in order to have a discussion that we have come across in some specific cases with foreign fighters the idea that the Convention is working in a way in which we have at least allowed ourselves to question whether it is really the intention that foreign warriors should be protected here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170126	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170127	Thank you. That is very interesting, and it is, after all, more than we have previously had the Minister say he has done. When have we reached out to these partners and can the Minister not explain to me here today what they have said to these partners and countries they want to change? I mean, the minister doesn't just reach out and say: we think it's too bad. The minister has to point out in some places in the stateless convention where the minister says that this is where we have to work; that this is where we have to change. So can the Minister not elaborate on which points of the stateless convention the Minister intends to point out? It must of course be seen both in relation to the answer the Minister has just given and in relation to the Prime Minister's saying that she will always work to change conventions that are going wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170207-2	I do not dare to set a date on when we have reached the end, but it is clear that this has happened after the Prime Minister's statement and as a consequence of what both I and the Prime Minister have said. I do not dare to say exactly what paragraph this is about, but it is of course about the protection against statelessness, which we believe in some specific cases has been too far-reaching, and the specific cases have been about cases of foreign fighters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170236	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170237	But can the Minister not explain exactly what the Minister wants to change? I think that if the government has an ambition to change some conventions or some interpretations of some conventions and you use energy and time, then I suppose you have said what you want to change. Moreover, it has happened at the request of the Danish Parliament, because the Minister could not tell me when he had done so, the last time I asked him. So it's gotta be because we've put pressure on you, and I'm glad about that. But I guess you don't reach out to relevant partners and countries without explaining to them what it is you want to change. Then the chance to achieve a good result is certainly bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170308	As I also concluded my speech by saying, my predecessor also tried unsuccessfully to seek support to amend the stateless Convention, which is why I am probably a little cautious in standing here and guaranteeing exactly what and when something needs to be changed. However, the discussion, the dialogue we want to take both with organisations and with what we call like-minded countries, is based on the fact that we believe that protection against statelessness has been too far-reaching in these specific cases of foreign fighters. So that is what we want the discussion to be about, and not about everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170339	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin. That was the end of Question 42. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and this has been asked by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170351	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170354	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that immigration from Arab and North African countries has contributed positively to Danish society and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170407	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that immigration from Arab countries and some areas of Africa has been a particular challenge for our societies. Although Denmark on an international scale is still a fairly homogeneous and coherent country, we will probably not escape the fact that when many people migrate here from distant cultures, it also test the cohesion and cohesion of our own country. We have to deal with that. We can't just pull on our shoulders and pretend everything's the way it's supposed to be. We are therefore also very concerned about getting rid of parallel societies, with people who do not subscribe to democracy. No one is no longer in any doubt that integration takes a long time, that it costs a lot of money and that it leads to many cultural conflicts. But I think we should keep insisting that when you come here, no matter where you come from, and no matter how you are here only temporarily, you have to become an active part of Danish society. That is to say, learning the language, getting to work, training. But we also have to support the values of democracy, because we cannot take a rematch on decades of progress. However, I must also stress, subject to the fact that we are currently in a crisis situation, that it is actually better to get new arrivals in jobs and education. It then lags with some of those who have been here for a while longer. It's not gonna make us sit back because we're bad, not finished at all. There's gang crime. There are mothers who go unemployed at home behind unrolled curtains. There's social control. The newspapers keep writing about it. So there are still major challenges. Our hope, our ambition and our plan are to limit the influx to Denmark and, at the same time, strengthen integration. Then I will also allow myself to be optimistic, because then I also believe that our society will come out stronger on the other side. This requires, of course, only that we maintain a tight influx and a strengthening of integration efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170552	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170553	That was not quite an answer to what I asked. It is, of course, fine that well-stocked greengrocers have arrived. I received that reply from another party when I asked during a question debate. I think there was something about hip-hop and something we could learn from. It's a little thin. I mean, I am very concerned about the increase in crime, gender-separated swimming pools, scarves, halal food, not least social control, mosques, minarets, social fraud, gang conflicts, gang crime, trouble and insecurity. And I am not talking here about the individual immigrant, because I certainly also recognise that there may be immigrants who do well. But it is immigration as a whole where, at least, and many others, I have been weeping with, for quite a number of years, that it was a positive contribution to Danish society. I don't think so at all. That is regrettable, but I also think that the statistics to which I refer show exactly the opposite in the areas I have highlighted here. I am very, very concerned, and I do not think that it is just about integration, about learning Danish and about getting to work. It is part of it, but it is far from enough, and I still think that we are lagging behind enormously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170706	So I agree that it lags enormously behind. I just find it a little difficult to answer yes or no to the question. So, has immigration from Arab and North African countries contributed positively to Danish society? Well, that depends on who we're talking about. I myself am a product of immigration from an African country to Denmark, so I cannot stand here and say that it is negative. Conversely, it does not take a student's hat to figure out if you just look up the statistics, that it is quite violent, how much over-representation there is in crime statistics; how many, especially women, go unemployed; how many problems you have created with parallel societies, social control, gangs. I quite agree with that. But the discussion just has to go deeper, or I really don't think we're getting any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170753	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170754	I think it is quite easy to answer 'yes' or 'no', and I think that the Minister is moving into something where one does not really want to go into detail. I think the answer is no. I do not think that immigration as such has made a positive contribution to Danish society at all. No, it hasn't. This immigration from the Middle East and North Africa has not contributed positively to Danish society. It has not contributed anything that has meant that Denmark has become a richer country than before immigration started • we just have to face it. And I actually just think that the answer lies straight ahead. Is that a yes or a no from the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170836	We're not on a TV quiz here, where it's about saying yes or no. It's about solving political problems. I guess that's why we're here. And you and I can take each other by hand and go out and meet with thousands of people who have contributed to Danish society and who have made our society stronger, better and richer. But we can also take each other's hands and go elsewhere and see that immigration has had enormous negative consequences for our society. However, if it is to be useful in our society for us to stand here and discuss here, then we need to be precise in our analyses and in our problem phrases. And it is not a problem that people are here, working, obeying the law and having joined Denmark and democracy. But it's a problem that people are involved in gang crime. So let us be precise about the challenge instead of just asking each other to answer yes or no, because I think that debate makes us stupider than we are. We can easily discuss this in a nuanced way. It is quite obvious that there are huge integration challenges. Let's solve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170934	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610170935	Yeah, but sometimes we're both stupid and naive, and I think we've been for a long, long time... we might as well admit that it's been that way. At least we've been naive. Are we stupid? I don't know if we can take that on, but we're at least naive thunderous naïve. And that is why I am just so aware of and interested in what we are doing and whether you can just say that it has been super positive, because that is at least what we have been crying out for, that is to say that immigration is a positive contribution to Danish society. No, it's not. It is fair that you do not let yourself be provoked by all these Middle Eastern and North African changes in Danish society, but rather to stay in a better mood than you were before, I think it is too far to draw it. I don't know if I should understand that the mood before was a little bad, and then everything lit up because there was a woman walking around the corner wearing a scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171026	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171028	In fact, I agree with the questioner that Danish immigration policy has been characterised by naivety. We thought that if people lived here for a few years, they probably ended up being like everyone else who lived in this community. And the fact is that some people have locked themselves up in parallel societies and maintained and strengthened their own culture and rejected the rest of society. We are in complete agreement on this. I just think it is absolutely crucial that we do not generalise here in Parliament in a way that pushes a lot of the people from us who have taken Denmark to heart, who would like to be part of the community and who, if I have to answer the question, have contributed positively to the Danish society. We can easily distinguish between that, and I think it would be extremely strong, especially if the author, with his history, made that distinction and did not make the debate for black and white. Because that's when it's destroyed. And I would say that it can also be from the other side. I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171126	That was the end of the question. The next question is also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and it has also been asked by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171134	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171137	When will the government set up asylum camps abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171144	Thank you for a good question and a question where I myself am a little impatient. Last Tuesday we had a debate in this Chamber which actually revolved around the same issue. It was a question debate. And I must unfortunately disappoint Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and myself and say that the answer to move asylum procedures to a country outside the European Union has not changed since we last stood here. I also understand that the Danish People's Party is impatient, just as I am, because it is something that should happen today rather than tomorrow. We can only agree on that. Unfortunately, I cannot set a specific date, and I do not think the questioner would have expected that either. I have said before that I regard the work on a new asylum system as a stairway we must climb, and at the top of the stairs is our desire to have asylum applications dealt with in a country outside the European Union, outside the borders of the Schengen area. It is extremely complex legally, politically and practically, and it naturally makes it more difficult for us ourselves to define the steps that are on the stairs, in other words the steps towards establishing a reception centre. Because it's a job that no one's ever done before us. It's an untraveled country. Some of the steps on this staircase are about strengthening cooperation on asylum and migration, border management and migration flows with countries outside the EU. Because if we are to hope that countries outside the European Union will cooperate with us to move further up the stairs, we also need to help them deal with the migration challenges they face. This may be overlooked in the debate. And just in this time, we're actually gonna take a few steps up this stairwell. We have entered into concrete cooperation with Tunisia on their border, among other things. to Algeria, and we have started working with Rwanda to get some of the vulnerable refugees and asylum seekers staying in Libya to Rwanda, Central Africa, instead of getting into the boats against Europe. It has actually been a few important steps in the right direction, and we also have more in our sleeve, and I look forward to presenting it as soon as possible. Even if it is not a reception centre, it is a step up the stairs in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171352	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171354	I should like to begin by saying that the Minister said it was a good question. I would venture to claim that when we put questions to the ministers, they are all good questions, but perhaps there are not such good answers. I cannot help but say that we did not hear all these reservations in the election campaign, and that is what annoys me so much. Because I think it would have been fair if all these reservations had been made that uh, how difficult it is. Yeah, I'm sure it is. But I just have to say that the Social Democracy launched the idea in February 2018 as an election document. The way it was launched was very violent. Yes, it is difficult to establish such camps abroad, but I guess the Social Democracy knew that well when it was launched. After all, social democracy is not a new party and is well aware of the many challenges that exist. I do not like smart slogans alone to win the elections, and I just have to challenge the Minister a little more and ask when it happens, when we see those camps and how far the Social Democratic Government is with the establishment. I know the Minister tried with the answer, but who are you in very, very close dialogue with? Because I could understand during the election campaign that it was mainly North Africa that was somewhat of a problem; the rest was not so big a problem. I just think it's been a long time. It's been over a year, working on these things that are extremely important. Because that is right, and I think it is sensible, certainly, that asylum should not be sought in Denmark, and I could understand at that time that social democracy went much further than the rest of Europe with its asylum camps. But okay, it was so up to the campaign. I'm just eager to get it established because I think it's extremely important. It makes no sense to come to Denmark and start seeking asylum. It doesn't make any sense... just trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171536	I would like to start by saying that we were very clear before the elections, as it is difficult. That is what we say after the elections. Before the elections, we said that it is an ambition to move asylum procedures out of Europe. That's what we say after the elections, and we're working on this after the elections. It is true that in February 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented this idea as something we wanted to go to the polls and something we wanted to do afterwards, but it is now not quite our own invention. This is something that has been under discussion in Europe for several years, but nobody has actually worked so seriously and thoroughly with what we are doing now. Just one simple thing: what exactly is the law in this area? How can we clarify the relationship to conventions, to the constitution, to Danish legislation on foreigners? No one has done that in Denmark, and we are actually working on it now to find out what concrete legislative steps need to be taken if anyone is to be taken in order to move towards moving the asylum procedure out. So it may well be that there has been a lot of talk about it, but no one has sat down and worked on it thoroughly. I have just had a meeting with the Commissioner from Brussels today and repeated our proposal to her, and she has presented her views on it. So it's my experience that working seriously with it only really happens now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171648	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171649	Yes, but then I'm just waiting for the Social Democracy, when we are going to have a parliamentary election again in a few years' time, to use exactly the same material that I have here. Actually, I don't want that. I want us to go further. Because it was so clear. So, the Social Democratic Party was ready with first major election papers: No more seeking asylum in Denmark. It was very concrete, it was very bombastic and it went home cleanly and the Minister knows it well too. It is something that is sought after by the Danish people and that they want. But I just have to ask: what is the Minister counting on? And there must be some answers to that before the next election starts. I mean, this is ready for the next election again... but then the rest of us have discovered the scam.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171735	I certainly hope that we will not be able to use the same material for the next election. I mean, all the resources we spend on it and the time I spend on it, and all the meetings and all the conferences, and where else we participate, shouldn't be great wasted powers. It has to be because we have to realize this. That's what it's all about. So I certainly hope that we will not be able to use the material we used in the last election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171801	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171802	What if these asylum camps fail? What does the Socialist Government want? There has to be an alternative. Because I don't think it sounds so optimistic, even if you've had conferences and meetings, and I don't know what. There's gotta be something. What will you do if you fail? I almost know the Minister well enough to know that he will say: well, I just have to say: what if it is stranded? So what do we do? So we're just saying... Too bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171835-2	Well, we're following Plan A. We're going to implement the policy on which we've gone to the polls and which is also government policy. For the alternative to changing the asylum system is that we continue as we do now with one, we believe, completely unsustainable asylum system, where only a few come to Europe. Two out of three who come irregularly here have no need of protection at all. We spend countless resources on it. We can't send people out. One rejected asylum seeker in Denmark costs DKK 300,000. a year. It's 800 home help hours, it's relief for 600 kids close to the conflicts with vaccines and blankets, and what do I know for one n So I don't think there's any alternative to doing everything we can to make this happen. It is also the only humane thing to do, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171921	Then we thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left, who has asked the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171934	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610171938	Does the Minister consider that, given that Danfoss and a number of other companies have shown understanding for involving autists' forces in production, it should be inspired to establish further cooperation between the public and the private sector so that autists and other people with special disabilities can be more involved in production work? And what initiatives does the government intend to take further to use the positive experiences of Danfoss and other companies to the benefit of autists and other disabled people, their relatives and companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172018	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172020	Thank you very much for the question. It is the Government's ambition that as many as possible be given the opportunity to contribute their skills in the labour market, whether it is full-time, in flexible jobs, with the use of aids or other forms of support in everyday life. We know that Denmark needs skilled people with or without a disability. Although we are in a new and special situation in terms of employment following the corona crisis, it is important that we maintain the focus on ensuring more better ways of employment for people with disabilities, and therefore my employment targets for 2021 will continue to target more people with disabilities in employment. And the road to achieving that goal I am discussing when, among other things, I am discussing. meet with the various stakeholders and fire souls in the field. But it is self-evident for everyone not only to speak but also to act. That is why I am also looking forward to the job week here in December 2020, where we will continue our efforts to bring companies in and to focus on the fact that people with disabilities are an important resource in the labour market. Efforts to get people with disabilities in employment work best when companies are involved and they are also ready to take their share of responsibility. With the 2019 rate pool, last autumn I was able to give a commitment to a number of projects where companies work with job centres to improve the employment of people with cognitive disabilities, such as: includes persons with autism spectrum disturbances. The experience with the projects and the employment effects are measured at the end of each project so that other companies can be inspired. In addition to the collaborations that have come up using the rate pool, I know that several other municipalities have good cooperation with companies to strengthen employment for people with disabilities. For example: Høje Taastrup Municipality has previously shown excellent results from a partnership between the municipality and the business community in the city, and I can only encourage several municipalities and companies to join forces to find good solutions together • it's win-win
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172220	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172221	Thank you. I am delighted that the focus is on that. There is not much research in this area, but a survey by the National Autism Institute and the National Autism Association has shown that only about one in ten autists are in ordinary employment, while about 40 per cent. of the autists are on cash benefits-like support. The situation is similar for others with disabilities. I think that is a pity and shame, both for the autist and for the person with disabilities and for the company. It is quite clear that autists have a different approach to solving tasks and that they are more focused on the task solution than on everything else around them. When I mention this, it is concrete because at Danfoss you experience quick and good solutions using autists' work. Yes, the other employees tell us that they are learning new things from their autistic colleagues. At the same time, the employees I have talked to at Danfoss say that they are incredibly proud to help the weak in society, so that they also stand up for meaningful work every day and thus become self-supporting. It's pure win-win, the way it works at Danfoss. In the light of this, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that this is what I think an action plan should be drawn up for the employment of autists in Denmark, as proposed by the National Association of Autism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172348	First of all, I would like to agree with the rapporteur that it is win-win for everyone when companies do something active and try to create a better framework and they can also seek out the fact that people with chronic disabilities can become part of production and part of the company. The questioner himself mentions Danfoss. I think that there are a large number of other companies that, in addition to Danfoss, are also doing very, very well, and I believe that we have a great obligation both to speak up and to spread everything we can at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172423	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172425	Thank you. I totally agree. Section 8 of the World Goals states that we must create decent jobs and economic growth. We must do this by making sense to employees and companies, and the founder of the Specialists, Thorkil Sonne, who is also President of the Council for Social Responsibility, has been involved in this. He has helped, along with many others of course, create 20,000 jobs for people with autistic traits. Sonne shows that there is a lot of potential and talent among autistic people who have been included in the heart of the company's organization. I would therefore like to know: what is the public sector itself doing as an employer to include autistic people in employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172508-2	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the questioner mentions precisely the Specialists. It is one of the companies which, among other things, is involved. has received a share in the payout of the pool in the rate pool, which deals with projects with business-oriented interventions for people with disabilities. They've got 2.1 million. kr., where they include: working with the BC Hospitality Group and others to get people with cognitive disabilities in employment. And I think that is extremely positive and a good picture of how we do it right and how we get the money out to work to help more people in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172553	Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172554	Thank you. We can see from the studies that are that 40%. of persons with autistic traits are on cash assistance. How can public procurement be optimised to promote the employment of vulnerable people? Do you have any suggestions for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172610	In any case, I believe that the very short answer is that the public sector has a major role to play in this context too. This is, of course, the case when public contracts are already being drawn up in different forms of social clauses, in which companies are asked to take on social responsibility, and in this respect some of the objectives can rightly be included. But this also applies, I believe, to the fact that in the ongoing dialogue, in the focus that one has, and also in the cooperation that we have from the Folketing and the government with a number of companies that want to take the lead, it has a major role to spread the good examples and to put some pictures and some words on how it is and can be a really great strength for any company, whatever they do, to make sure that they recruit their workforce among people with cognitive disabilities too, because they are a good and valued workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172704	That concludes the question. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Sir. Nils Sjøberg is allowed to continue, for the next question to the Minister for Housing was also asked by Mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172717	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172719	Thank you. In view of the fact that Denmark lacks thousands of housing communities, elderly homes, etc., has the government considered whether part of this challenge can be solved by setting up construction projects in cooperation between public and private companies, and what further initiatives does the Minister think should be taken in this area in order to establish a sufficient number of housing for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172746	Let me begin by stating that it is the individual municipality which is responsible for establishing the necessary number of elderly and nursing homes that are needed locally. It is a task which the municipality promises by continuously assessing whether the number of elderly and nursing homes corresponds to the needs of the elderly in the municipality for these dwellings. The municipality may choose to either build and operate the nursing homes or it may make commitments to a general housing organisation or an independent institution when it is responsible for the construction and operation of the dwellings. The vast majority of the purchase price is financed by borrowing, where current benefits are financed by the elderly's rent payments and state aid. The municipality alone pays a small amount of basic capital. There are also other types of housing for elderly people who are not dependent on care, for example. senior housing communities. There are good opportunities to establish a senior community in either owner, cooperative, general or private rental accommodation within the applicable legislation. However, there is a lack of knowledge of the broad framework for the establishment of senior housing communities today, if senior housing communities are to be supported and disseminated. With the 2020 Housing Agreement, concluded on 19 May by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, it has been decided to set up a working group to examine barriers and opportunities to create general communities of residents, including larger communities of mixed ownership. So the government is certainly aware of the problem and the solutions that living communities with mixed forms of ownership contain. It is important that we have more housing to meet the demand that will come as a result of the increasing number of elderly people. For this reason, the Housing Agreement for 2020 also provides for substantial funds to make general housing available. Out of the 30 billion. DKK, which is devoted to the renovation of the general housing sector with the housing agreement, goes approx. 4.8 billion kr. for better accessibility. This will ensure significantly more accessible housing than in the latest housing agreement of 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172935	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610172936	Thank you. I think it is positive that the Minister is prepared to do something to strengthen the housing offer for the elderly. A study from Realdania also shows that 91%. of the residents of senior housing communities tells that they are experiencing increased quality of life and that 75%. experience better social relations. So this is the time for something to happen. Because we're getting more and more, you have to admit. 25% of the Danish population is already over 60 years old, and this in itself gives a good reason for developing and improving living and social communities. In addition, a lot of people are sitting in large homes that are not adapted to a life of AT and where the children have moved away from home. But there is no link at all between supply and demand. And that's why I'm asking this question. If we take a moment's focus on it, you have to relate to the fact that there are approx. 7,000 senior housing communities in Denmark and that there is an interest in 8,000 extra within the next few years. And within a long time there is an interest in nearly 80,000 senior residents communities that people want to live in. In other words, there is a big difference between supply and demand. I would therefore like to hear paragraph 1: Is there anything that the government sees as a purely market mechanism and that supports the construction of senior housing communities? That's why I'm here, too. asks if you could do it in cooperation with the private. And, point 2: Does the Minister think that the construction of old homes will be possible to revitalize the Danish economy once the construction ceiling in the Danish municipalities has been removed in connection with the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173117	There were a number of questions, and I'll try to take them from the end. First of all, in terms of setting the economy in motion: I think that will have a very long offshoot. Construction of housing with local planning process, etc. will typically have a perspective of at least a year and a half or something like that. So I'm not sure it's necessarily the right tool. There I believe more in renovations, for example, or some of the other things that are being discussed in this time. Then I would say in relation to the barriers and the market mechanism in that, personally, I am surprised that no more people are using the opportunity to create older people's communities. I think, as the questioner also says, that there is a very high demand for it, and I am surprised that private communities are not being created on a larger scale than there are. Perhaps it is because people are afraid to burn their fingers, and perhaps also because there is no tradition of building that way. However, in relation to the part that is general, I can really understand it if there are some municipalities that say that when you use your basic capital, which the municipality has to provide, they on average 10 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In any case, I shall not judge it if you say in some municipalities: that is where we think it is more important that we get the right of authorizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173237	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173238	Thank you. One of the conclusions of the inter-ministerial work on senior housing communities carried out in the spring of 2019 by the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Ministry of Business and Transport and Housing was, and I quote: An opportunity to support and disseminate senior housing communities is to spread knowledge of the opportunities that exist to establish senior housing communities. It is just a little in relation to what the Minister is saying here. Is this a task that the Minister and the government intend to take up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173310	Yes, it is in this sense that, as I said in my opening answer, we are now looking specifically at how we can create the general housing law in a way that can, for example, impose obligations. Nowadays, as a general resident, you cannot have obligations beyond your own department. But if you are in a mixed community there are many of them set up in Lejre, in Faxe and elsewhere around Zealand and probably also in the rest of the country there are typically some obligations to communal houses and to other things that you need to participate in. And that is not a requirement, and we are about to remove some stones on the road. But this still applies to the individual municipality. And you might say that many municipalities may have a desire to attract families of children to their area • Perhaps because you want to have children in schools or whatever it may be. And there too I think it is important that we take that discussion locally and say that although we want to attract families with children, it is also important that there is room for the many elderly, which we know, as the questioner says, in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173410	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173410-2	Thank you. Could there be cooperation between public and private companies in this area? And if the Minister does not want to take the initiative on a national plan for the construction of care and elderly homes, what does the Minister think about ensuring that the number of elderly homes in Denmark is consistent with demographic developments • despite the situation here? It is, after all, a fairly large number of people who are missing a lot of housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173440	Yes, there is. And in relation to the cost that lies in it if, for example, you talk about the general sector that so far at least it has cost about 400,000 kroner. per housing. So they're set aside for this little 5 billion. kr. to create accessibility accommodation, but it is clear that it does not solve the overall problem. It will then of course provide thousands, but of course not tens of thousands, which may be what is really needed. So it's clear that we have to look at how we get private developers and people who build it could be pension funds or others who build rentals • into this agenda. And I would very much like to take a look at it. But such an overall plan in terms of making it for the whole country I think is beyond what the government should set in motion. It is primarily the individual municipalities that make their housing policy locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173528	Then the question is closed, and we thank the Minister for Housing and Mr. Nils Sjøberg. The last question on today's agenda is to the Minister for the Environment, and that is what Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173540	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173544	Thank you. Is the Minister willing to enter into dialogue with Vejle Municipality in relation to providing a legal basis so that the municipality has the opportunity to contribute to the purification of malakit green in the Turbines Islands at Randbøldal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173601	Thank you for the question. I guess the short answer is really yes. But if I am going to elaborate on that, I also think the questioner would like me to start by saying that last year I myself visited Randbøldal to speak to the Committee on the Environment and the Environment in Vejle Municipality and see the area with my own eyes. And it is extremely sad when a historical pollution affects a beautiful natural area like that place. So I fully understand that the municipality wants to eliminate that pollution. I have also asked my ministry to look into whether the legislation in force allows a municipality to clean up. The analysis indicates that Vejle Municipality may be able to clean up within the framework of Section 37 of the Watercourse Act. This provision allows municipalities to carry out restoration measures to improve physical conditions in and around watercourses. The legislation on watercourses also applies to lakes, and the law also allows municipalities to bear the cost of cleaning up. The Ministry is therefore already in dialogue with the Municipality of Vejle on the possibility of applying the law on watercourses as a legal basis. A meeting has been arranged between the Ministry and the municipality to discuss further whether the municipality's project can be implemented within the framework of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173719	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173720	Thank you. The municipality of Vejle has a major challenge with malakit green pollution in the lakes at Randbøldal, which can be found in Vejle Ås sediment, in the game fish and in the fish farms in the area. The problem is that by 2022 the EU will reduce the limit values on how much malachite green may be available for fish for human consumption. Turnover bans have already been notified for two fish farms along Vejle Å due to excessive limit values. Fear is therefore that a number of fish farms and fisheries throughout Vejle Å will be closed down when the limit values are tightened if there is no solution and pollution has not been cleaned up by 2022. That's why it's really urgent to find this solution. The municipality of Vejle has announced that they are willing to co-finance the clean-up. The only problem is that the state has not yet allowed the municipality to handle this clean-up. As the Minister also mentioned, she visited Randbøldal in November, where she was invited by the municipality's Nature and Environment Committee. Here the Minister indicated, which she reiterates today, that she is willing to help find a solution to this problem. Unfortunately, nothing has really happened since. On 25 February, the municipality moved the minister in relation to a solution. Unfortunately, nothing came of that. The only thing we got back was that the Minister replied that she was not willing to find the means to clean up. Therefore, on 7 May, Vejle Municipality wrote to Minister for the Interior Astrid Krag, hoping that she could be helpful in allowing the municipality to solve the problem. There they have not yet received an answer, and that is why we are here today: because it is urgent. We are getting closer and closer to 1 January 2022, where these fish farms and jobs will be lost and Vejle Municipality's unique fishing water will be shut down. We can't wait for a solution anymore. One thing is that the Minister will not be willing to find money to clean up. Worse, the Minister has not yet allowed Vejle Municipality to eliminate pollution that threatens the environment and recreational values and jobs at its own expense. When can Vejle Municipality expect the Minister to allow them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610173924	As the rules have been knitted together in Denmark, it is not I as a minister who can provide opportunities if not the possibility already exists in the legislation. That is also why we need to be involved in looking at what are barriers on the legislative side, which is why I was over to visit the municipality and talk to the whole committee about this issue, which I fully agree with. But there is also a great deal of work going on with all the river basin management plans, where there are locally reduced water bodies that look at the barriers that exist to achieving good ecological conditions. We know precisely that the condition is not good here, and that is partly due to. the pollution, which has a history from the past, where this drug was used, also in the pond farms that lie in the river basin system. When I say that I really want to help investigate this, the Ministry has also been in full swing with it, and we are in dialogue with Vejle Kommune, because we want to help and also find the legal basis that makes it possible for the municipality to actually clean up. So I do not think the questioner is quite right when it is said that nothing is being done. As I said, we are in dialogue and a specific meeting has also been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174041	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174044	I am very pleased that the Minister says that work is actually being done on this matter. The problem is again that the Minister does not answer when we can expect clarification. The problem is that we have a deadline in this case if not all of our fish farms are to be at risk of closing down and we should not risk closing the opportunity to fish in Vejle Å. So I would like to re-table the question: Can the Minister say a little about when she expects Vejle Municipality to get an answer in relation to this legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174113	I understand that there is a local impatience when it comes to wanting to move on with the project. When I met with the committee, perhaps there was not exactly the same clarification when it came to finding the funding for the clean-up. I understand that this is the case now, and that is why I think that what we are doing right now is the right thing to do, namely look into the paragraphs in order to ensure that there is also the legal basis that the municipality needs in terms of being able to clean up. That is what we are in the process of clarifying. As I have said, a specific meeting has been agreed between the Ministry and the municipality, so this is a matter that is moving forward, and I have a hope that we can resolve it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174157	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174159	Unfortunately, I still did not hear a date when we can expect something to happen, but I hope it will be soon. Only in 2019 the Danish Parliament allowed the City of Copenhagen to participate in the cleanup of Erdkehlgrave, the Laboratory grave and the Tømmergrave via an act piece. Is the Minister prepared to send a document to the Finance Committee to obtain the legal basis if, within one week, or how long it may take, her lawyers find out that the legal basis in the Watercourse Act is not enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174226	I think you have to take things in the right order. So in relation to Vejle Municipality, I myself have been visiting, and I acknowledge that there is a challenge that we would like to help with. I have also had the talk with the committee myself, and I have been out watching the pollution. Now we have been in dialogue with the municipality and we would like to try to see if there is no possibility in precisely the legislation we already have. We are in the process of clarifying this and now we have that meeting. It is clear that this is not possible, but then we shall have to look at what other options there are. But I think that before you write it off, it's worth just finding out if we can't use the legal basis that already exists. And that's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174306	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. And we thank the Minister for the Environment. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200610174320	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 June 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
