ParlaMint-DK_20200609130008	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130016	The items listed as No. 2 and 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130027	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130033	Thank you so much. We are now a long way from the reopening of Denmark. It's good; we gotta get back to work. Later today there are consultations on the situation in Denmark. I look forward to that, which is why I am not going to use my speaking time here today in Question Time in Corona, but talk about something quite different which I know is of concern to many in this Parliament, namely Denmark's European policy. The Corona has hit all the countries of Europe, and now we have to get on with the economic recovery. The public debate on European economic policy seems to me to have so far been, if I may be a little free, a little superficial. That is why I propose that we get it lifted into the Chamber today. Let me start with the government's position first. I would like to stress that we are in favour of a large recovery fund which will help, not least, the countries most affected in southern Europe. We also support, I would like to say, a fund of many billion euros from the Danish side. We do this for the sake of employment and for the sake of businesses both at home and abroad. In other words, we want massive European solidarity on top of those aid packages on more than they hold fast! We have already decided at European level. With our support, of course, there must also be room to discuss how such a fund should be financed. I am an ardent supporter of European cooperation, but I am also a North Jutlander, and basically I and we think it is right that we should pay ourselves the debts we have to bear. There are not so many countries who believe that in Europe anymore, and I can also see that more and more people in Denmark are moving away from that point of view. However, we want to maintain that common sense or financial responsibility, as it is also called, and solidarity can go hand in hand. There is no doubt that European cooperation has ensured both peace and prosperity throughout Europe, and we must, however, as in this Parliament, await difficult economic discussions, so is European cooperation. At the same time as adopting a large recovery fund, we must also have adopted the EU's 7-year budget. And although we have become a smaller country with Britain's departure from the European Union, we have long since accepted from the Danish side that in future we will pay more than we already do, but there is a fair thing to do and there is a fair thing to do. The Commission's overall proposal will mean that we will have to pay almost 7 billion. kr. Annually more for the EU budget than today. Some of the money is coming back, it is clear, but overall it will be a very large increase in our budget contribution. Here I think the critics of the Danish position will have to give some answers. I have been called many things, even lately cheap and thrifty, not that I actually think these are boring concepts, and many say that Denmark just has to pay by box one. The only question is, how? Should we set up the tax and ask the Danes to pay more taxes to pay this bill? Should we cut welfare? Are we going to ask the Danes, with one of Europe's highest retirement ages, to work even more? Well, I still have the credit of hearing some of the parties suggest it. And I know that the answer from many so will be: find a solution, government! But politics is not that easy. If we are to spend many more billions a year on the European Union, there are correspondingly less billions of dollars for welfare or for climate or for restoring our own economy after corona. That is why I think the critics owe an answer to the question: where should the Danish Finance Act be spared? In our view, the budget should be responsible, greener, more modern, more digital. It must equip Europe for the future. But right now, when I am part of the discussion that is going on, I hear more statements like just spending more money and that agricultural aid must be as we already know it. In other words, it is relatively easy to talk about Europe in fine headlines, but soon it will become a reality. I hope that Denmark and Europe will find a path which is both solidarity and also financially responsible and which, of course, ensures that we can continue to develop our own society as well. That is the position of the government, and I hope, of course, for a broad mandate from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130534	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to two minutes' speaking time and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130548	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction here. It is always an important question, that is to say, where should the money come from? We had a finance minister in the past, who almost had it imprinted into his desk. I don't know if he's got it tattooed on his body. But it is a question which is beginning to arise in earnest because we have a government which has been born in a boom. I mean, just a year ago, when the elections were over and the government negotiations were going on, the economy thundered out there. We've never had fewer unemployed people, we've never had more in work, it went well. After all, this is also a bit of the government's approach to growth, to jobs, to room for manoeuvre, namely that it is something that comes naturally. However, it only does so because some people have made responsible decisions about reforms which the Prime Minister has been opposed to on a large part of the day. Today in Berlingske there is an analysis from Kraka which shows that the economy is entirely dependent on the reforms that ensure that the Danes stay longer in the labour market and that these reforms are allowed to work. You have even asked the chief economist from the Social Democratic think tank AE, who says that if you are not to lose room for manoeuvre, it is very important that the reforms we have made with later withdrawal can work. I know that the government is planning to come up with a proposal for early retirement personified by Mr. Arne. Does the Prime Minister really believe that it is now time, in the midst of a thundering, violent economic crisis, to reinstate a pre-retirement wage in which healthy people are withdrawn from the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130739	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130741	In other words, if the questioner had asked the question correctly, namely whether the Social Democracy and the Prime Minister are of the opinion that it is right to ensure an earlier withdrawal to those people who have been very many years on the labour market and have been worn out of their jobs, then the answer is yes. Now the questioner came to say 'pre-retirement' and I will not be taken as an income for that. But yes, I think it's fair and fair. And the problems that were in our society before corona are still gone. It is quite right, however, if we are to address the whole question, that one of the prerequisites and one of the reasons why we have been able to deal with the Corona crisis together, and indeed, in fact, for a large part unanimously in this Parliament, as well as we have done with regard to the economy, is thanks to the economic policy that has been pursued in the past, moreover, across changing governments. We're in a good place. We did so a year ago, we did so before that, and so do we today. We have a low level of public debt, we have a high level of employment, and, by the way, there is a low rate of interest which also helps us. We have an innovative and skilful business community, not least in relation to the green transition, and we have a workforce that is generally very, very well trained. So when you put all the pieces together, we're a strong country, and we have a strong economy, and it never comes by itself. It is thanks to many decisions that I believe we should build up and also do even better. For some of that, for example. For example, there has been a lack of progress in the reform trail that has been going on for many years. Unskilled people in Denmark who, in our view, have not had enough opportunities to train for the jobs that are in the future. And that problem has only gotten bigger after corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130927	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609130929	Thank you. After all, no one is opposed to the possibility of worn-out people withdrawing from the labour market. No one in here thinks that's a bad idea. That's why we introduced the senior pension at the end of the previous government period. It was against social democracy at that time, before the parliamentary elections, but afterwards it seemed that it was actually a very good idea for people who have been worn out by hard work to be allowed to resign. The new thing you want to introduce here is a new pre-retirement wage. Well, this is something that will pull healthy people out of the labour market, and I think that is a bad idea. Because we have a strong economy, but we do not have an invulnerable economy, and the key to this is employment. And we see that over 50,000 people have joined the unemployment queue; we know that there are more than 200,000 on wage compensation, and the risk that at least 100,000 of them will be put in that queue is definitely there. In the past, I have asked whether the government will raise taxes and charges, and I did not get a clear answer to that. I was kind of hoping that the answer I would get was that you wouldn't. But before the elections on 5 June last year, the Social Democratic Party wanted to finance this proposal for an early retirement or the reinstatement of the early retirement by raising the tax by 3 billion. kr. Is it still off the plan? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131054	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131056	I think that for the sake of history we will have to go back a few months, because I myself took part in the work on a new senior pension, and it is simply not true that the Social Democratic Party was opposed to introducing a senior pension. We have not been at any time, but we have said that we did not think it was enough. However, we were actually engaged in a very close dialogue with the previous government, and then such a rather ordinary boring political game arose, which meant that it did not become a broad political agreement. We have not been opposed to the introduction of a senior pension, but we have said from the outset that we do not think that is enough. It is, of course, an old dividing line here, because underneath this lies whether you think that men or women who have been 40-50 years on the Danish labour market, yes, perhaps more years than both the questioner and I have ever existed who have worked hard, worked hard, worked hard, paid their taxes all the way through, have pains when they wake up in the morning, have to go down and beg and ask to withdraw earlier, whether they should go through a hard search process, whether they should be allowed to withdraw earlier, or whether they should have a right It is an old ideological feud and I would like to take it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131215	Thank you. I would just like to point out that we have reached one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131220	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to take this feud because the Prime Minister is drawing a picture of a worn-out person that we all want to help. There are probably some 179 Members in here who think it is reasonable for them to be allowed to withdraw. That is why it is not certain that everyone will reinstate the early retirement pension. I was in Bluewater yesterday, and I should like to say hello and say that unfortunately there is relatively good room. It is far between the campers who are far between the German tourists that I did not actually meet anyone who spoke in German for the border closure that has been introduced, having hit the border country and tourism hard. There are many jobs, especially up and down the West Coast, which depend on this and which are also affected by the somewhat demonstrative decision to keep the border closed until 15 June, which only makes it worse. At the same time, we can see that Germany is now going to reduce VAT, which was already lower than the Danish one and which will now be even lower. This will certainly increase cross-border trade and also lead to cows in this direction, which means, among other things, that it will push. retail stores in South and South Jutland even more. Will the Prime Minister do anything to counter an increase in the frontier trade? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131334	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131337	Yeah, I'd always like to discuss that. I could also be incredibly interested in it if you could find a single economist who backs the idea that you should just put the VAT down and it has been tried in Denmark, and it did not make a very positive contribution to the Danish economy. Let's just get back to that earlier withdrawal thing. Because if it is true that everyone is saying that that is what they want to do to help the person who, after a lot of years in the labour market, has been worn out, then why did they de facto abolish the post-retirement wage without having another solution? The only reason why everyone today is on a first-name basis with Arne is because in a former bourgeois government they chose to de facto abolish the after-pay without having an alternative, knowing that a great many solid Danish taxpayers who have worked hard for this country could not be allowed to withdraw worthily from the labour market. That's what some of us are still trying to repair. So if it is true, and if it is true, that everyone has suddenly become preoccupied with it, then surely there is also a basis for discussing in the autumn to give those who are not going to be part of the senior pension scheme that has been created now and for whom the alternative might be to leave the labour market in one, we think, unworthy way, a better option than the one they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131447	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131454	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introductory comments, and can we just put on the table that proposal for Arne? Because that would actually be nice. Why do we have to wait until autumn? Well, why doesn't the government just put forward the proposal that they say they have in the drawer and that's fixed and finished? Why should we have a summer when we are discussing this without knowing what the proposal is about? In fact, that is not what I wanted to ask, because I would actually like to sign off on the fact that we are also getting the EU discussion in this Chamber about this huge reconstruction fund, which the European Commission has proposed of 5 600 billion. kr. kr. 3,700 billion. kr., must be given as a gift. It is absolutely crazy to ask the Danes to work harder up in age, whether they make one or the other scheme, pay a higher tax burden than they typically do in southern Europe, and then hand it out as a gift to the countries of southern Europe. However, Prime Minister, you must also be careful that this debate does not just become such a toast talk, so that we are now coming into the Parliamentary Chamber, and that the Prime Minister does exactly what she is actually accusing others of, and just keeps some fine speeches about Europe and how you stand, about being North Jutland and things and things I would like to say that it is also a Mid-Jysk way of thinking, that it is good that you pay back the money that you have borrowed and then you make some of those usual compromises in the European Union at the end, where you agree that it has them and the effects. They may get a little smaller because we know that the European Commission always makes a proposal that goes a little too far and that the countries must then have some influence. Then you have to model a little back and forth, and then you land on a compromise that nevertheless does some of what you actually said you were against. So with regard to the idea of holding on to the Prime Minister's question time, that is to say, that all this will be held up, I would ask: how far does it go to hold on to it? Is it sufficient for Denmark to inform the other EU countries that it is not even on a model in which, among these many, many billions, the gift element for southern Europe is included? I think that is interesting to know, so that this not only becomes a toast talk, but so that we in the Danish Parliament and here in the Parliamentary Assembly know quite specifically whether the Prime Minister will make the words she has said here and which many of us would like to support, a reality and say against this model presented by the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131707	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131708	First of all, thank you for the words about Arne, and also thank you for extending what I would normally think is such a North Jutland property, that you are a little persistent and you also make sure that you pay the debt that you might make to a larger part of the country. It's only good today. That is probably why I myself am a little surprised to have been attacked, including by some from the Left, in relation to this position. Because it is not this government that has invented the idea that, as a country, if you are in debt, you have a responsibility to repay that debt yourself. I do not really speak against debt. This may well be necessary, and we have together made large recovery packages. Søren Pape Poulsen raised here several times in the Chamber which is based on debt, but it is basically a good idea to pay it back if you start debts. So far, so well, and we should be able to agree on that from the Danish side and thus also give the government a mandate, and it is we who will have to negotiate, and we will probably have to negotiate this over the month of July to the strongest possible mandate, and if that is what is beginning to appear, I think it is really positive. Because I firmly believe that the European Union needs some countries to stick to sound principles for our economy. And, as I said, I do not think there is a contradiction between making a large recovery fund and sticking to some basic principles. After all, we must have an agreement at some point, and we must do so both in terms of the budget and the fund, but the Danish position remains what it has been all along: a budget that is not just increasing and a recovery fund that should be based on the debt being repaid by those who take up the debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131859	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609131901	Now it may be that some of my North Jutland ancestors will still rebel and say that's where it comes from. I don't know, but I mean, at least I've dragged it to Central Jutland. I just wanted to say that I didn't understand the answer from the PM here at all. I am not asking the Prime Minister what other parties in the Folketing think. I asked what the Prime Minister thinks when the Prime Minister says: hold on. What's in it? If the Danish Parliament is to give the Prime Minister a mandate to negotiate something in Europe, then we need to know what that means. Now it was the Prime Minister who wanted to bring this debate into the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that is a very good thing, and then we must also have an answer as to whether holding on to this means that we are willing to go all the way, and whether we are willing to say to the European Commission that we will not be part of a reconstruction fund which includes this gift element, and we will insist on with North Jutland's ingenuity or Mid-Jysk, or where it is to be said that it is from the fact that the money is a loan and that it has to be paid back. Then we can always have a discussion afterwards about whether they are even paid back. After all, a country such as Greece has been forgiven quite a large part of its debt, and then you can give loans to those who cannot pay back at all. But that is another discussion. The first discussion has been initiated by the Prime Minister himself. Will you insist that you do not enter into an agreement that includes a gift element of many billions of dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132015	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132016	What I think is the task now, and it has been over a few months, because the debate on the budget has also been quite understandable because of the corona is that each country is making up its position, and this year it is only even more important that Denmark says and makes it significant. That is why I myself have invested quite a lot of effort in getting Denmark into an alliance with a number of like-minded countries, so that we do not stand alone. It takes time to build this kind of relationship, and we have now established it between Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. It puts us in a better place. What we four countries agree on is that we need a budget that does not just grow out there. We believe that we can implement Europe's policy with the framework we already know. And our approach is also common in terms of whether it should be loans or not. And that's the Danish position, and that's what we're going to fight for over the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132117	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132120	Well, I am asking one thing, and that is the reconstruction fund and the distribution of funds in it. The Prime Minister spends most of his reply time talking about the EU budget. I am talking about the reconstruction fund, two thirds of which in the Commission's proposal are EUR 3.700 billion. kr., is a gift element. Then the Prime Minister says: we must stick to the fact that we do not like the gift element; the countries must pay back the money they borrow; it is a loan that we want to contribute to. Then I ask the Prime Minister: can we count on it? Is the PM's statement about holding on all the way through? And then I get some talk about the EU budget. What will the Danish Parliament count on? Will you agree to a fifty-fifty scheme? Denmark can actually say no. Under the rules, Denmark has the opportunity to veto and say that we will not be part of a model that includes this huge billions of dollars as a gift. Will the Prime Minister use that card, or is it really just to try to talk such a little sugar sweet to the Danish people about what you mean, but when it comes to the matter and you sit down there at the negotiating table, you agree, let us say some fifty-fifty scheme, which still means an astronomical billions as a mere gift to southern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132225	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132227	So, with what I have been told that I am, by many Members of Parliament here lately, and then that I have now become sugar-sweet, I think that may be an indication that it is going in the right direction. But I don't dare say that. Now I understand that the Danish People's Party has taken the view that we should get out of the European Union, and we do not think so. In general, I would warn against EU Member States going to negotiations on something so vital and crucial, namely the future of Europe, with a veto. The task is not to veto, the task is to get a budget in place, the task is to get a recovery fund in place so that we get back to southern Europe after the corona. The task is not to veto; the task is to find a solution. After all, we are today, I must understand, a place where there is a party that thinks we should go all the way out. I'll never recommend that we do. We need a strong Europe and a united Europe. We also need to change much of Europe's policy, but we need to stick together, and that is also the government's starting point for these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132332	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132342	I cannot help trying to continue in the European Union, because I think that the Prime Minister is finally talking about some of the right things and that it is moving in the right direction with the government's policy in relation to the budget and the recovery package. I was thinking of a debate that I once had with Mr. Jesper Langballe, who on behalf of the Danish People's Party had changed his point of view. We discussed a lot about whether it was a so-called turnaround or a tack turn. A turnaround is this a little unlegant, where the wind comes in from behind and it looks a little clumsy, while the wind at a tack turn comes in from the front, and where you then navigate up against the wind, and it is in many ways nicer. What advocates that what the government is doing is a turnaround is that we continue to tour around with an obvious wrong picture to the Danes of what the consequences of the Commission's draft budget are. There is no question of some finding more than 6 billion, and perhaps even 7 billion. kr. in the Finance Act to pay an increased contribution to the European Union; on the contrary, the figure is much smaller even if the Commission's proposal goes through. I just think it is inappropriate to keep giving the Danes a picture of how crazy they think the others are when reality is actually someone else. However, what is in favour of perhaps a rather more elegant tack that the government is going through lies in the latter, as the Prime Minister says, namely that it is unwise to position oneself as one was doing, in a way that puts a hero out of control. For what is central Danish interest is, of course, that the budget does not just run away, but that is especially what the money is spent on. Therefore, a clear call from this to use the newly won interest in it to strengthen that money, both in the recovery package and in the budget, is spent as far as possible on the green transition, instead of basing and committing to points of view that cannot be passed through, because there is neither support for it nor, in my view, sense in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132545	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132547	We can always discuss the content, and we can also discuss what is sensible and not sensible, but the attitude of the government is thus unchanged. There is nothing in me and nothing in the government has yet seen the idea that we should have a bigger budget in the European Union. In other words, we are becoming a smaller country, and we are now faced with a historic crisis in which all countries will need to be able to use their national budgets and their national scope to get their own economies on their feet, to get young people into work, to invest in education and green conversion. Let's try to move on in this discussion. I also said in my introduction that the assessment is that it is now almost 7 billion. kr., but it's before the recovery fund. It's gonna be on top of it after 2027. So let's say that Denmark with backflows and these things because, as I also said, we're getting something back... we're gonna need somewhere between 3 and 5 billion. kr. extra a year. Where is that money supposed to come from? Normally, when a government makes a budget bill, and it does not matter which government there is, one sits and negotiates a few billion kroner. Here we are talking about the fact that we have to pay more than what we usually negotiate in a financial law to the European Union. Where's that money coming from? I cannot simply conjure them up, even though I am a great supporter of the European Union. So it is either from savings, tax increases or the absence of other initiatives. I just think that before you go down that track and say that it is a really, really good idea with a larger EU budget, it is fair enough that we are starting to have a discussion about whether it is from the climate or education or where it is from, you want to take that money. Because I don't have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132728	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132729	Yes, it would be desirable for the government to work to ensure that more of the money in the EU budget was spent on climate change so that it could support the ambitions we have in that area. And my next question will be about that. What I have noticed is that everyone has become very concerned about the business environment here during the corona crisis, and that makes sense, because it has really been a deep and serious crisis. But there were also many who were hit in the terrible rains we had over the winter, and this meant that many around us have experienced difficult conditions. There have been restaurant owners who have had to keep closed because the basement was under water long before corona came to and by that way prevented their business from being kept open. So conducting offensive climate policy is also wise business policy, and so must it be, and that is why I think it is so crucial that, in the context of the discussion and the negotiations we are going to have, decisions are being taken now that can support both. That is why I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is not more open than what the government may have given the impression so far, in order to take a decision on the principle of green tax reform by the summer, so that work can get under way at the same time with a uniform CO2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132851	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609132852	To the specific question of whether it is a good idea before the summer recess to have a decision of principle, and I would also like to make it a general one, that we should start preparing for a green tax reform, I would say that we can agree with that, and I can do that here on a stand-by basis. Then we all know that a green tax reform is a little harder to do than that, and there are a lot of considerations to take into account. One is that, in the situation we are in now after corona and, by the way, I don't think we will disagree on that, we should be careful just to raise taxes and charges for business. That is certainly an important consideration. Another really important consideration is that it must be socially balanced so that it is not those who have the least money to pay the most for the green conversion. I think we can agree on that too. Then there is at least one more obstacle, and that is that quite often, when we discuss taxes and taxes and climates, there is a risk that some companies will have to pay much more than some others. Now it is not because we have to stay a lot in Jutland, but I myself have a very, very great wish that we continue to be a strong industrial and productive country, and if that is about what we are talking about here, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133002	Morten Østergaard with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133004	Well, it ends up being one of the best questions hours at all. First, there is a move towards a constructive EU approach to the budget, and now there is a green tax reform, so I am now taking the chance on the last issue. One of the things that fills a lot in the debate about reopening is the many Danes who, on their travels or activities abroad, have met their loved ones there, but some of the stories are very sad. They are about boyfriends in this country, who may be ill, but where it is first commendable to come here if the tragedy happens and you have to attend the funeral, but not to come to visit now. There are also some stories in which these are happy circumstances, but where, for example, you can find them. We have to get here only at a time when we are so far in our pregnancy that we must not fly at all, and that does not make much sense. In general, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will not consider finding both meaning and heart space for helping the many Danes who right now miss their allegiance, because they are staying in countries outside the Nordic countries and Germany, from which right now you can get visits from your girlfriend or less close relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133119	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133121	Now, over the weekend, all parties have spent a lot of time talking about superliga football, i.e. whether we can somehow make sure that more people can come to football, and that is probably what Mr. Morten Østergaard and myself can get in to watch some football, and we are in the process of finding a solution that is sound. That way, you might want to have a hat trick. And it may also be, if we agree entirely on all the words. On the first point, the EU budget, the position of the government is the same as it has been all along, namely that we have to keep the budget down and that it is basically a good idea for you to pay your own debts. But let's stay in spirit of this. I have also heard some of these stories, and we have already opened up a few more rounds to what might be a worthwhile purpose, and I would like to say very clearly that I look forward to the day when there are no border restrictions on Denmark because of corona. Then, of course, there are always a lot of questions about how to do it exactly. However, I would like to give a fundamental commitment that we are constantly involved in both assessing and discussing whether the objectives of recognition should be extended even further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133229	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133235	Thank you. I will actually continue along the corona track, although we will have consultations later today. Because I think that things are going well in Denmark; we can jointly praise the fact that the Danes are still listening to us, keeping their distance and doing everything that is wise so that we can open up more. But not everyone in Denmark has opened up more, and I can listen especially to the bourgeois people, and now I can hear it from the Prime Minister that they have such a great desire to have football matches with more than 500 people, and we must be back in the stadium all together. And I understand that; I also think it's fun to go to football. But I would say that if I have to give priority, and when we open up, then I am much more concerned that the elderly in our nursing home can have visits from their relatives, and that when you are pregnant and have to visit the hospital and have your first examination with such a scan, you can actually get your husband or your spouse with, or that, when you are in a place of residence, you may experience that you can actually live a normal life, because a place of residence is your home. And I have to say that I think we are forgetting these proportions at the moment when we have the discussion on the reopening of Denmark. And that is why I really want to ask the Prime Minister whether we have not done so well in this Chamber yet again, because we have done so before, can confirm that we will make an extra effort for those people who have now been feeling quite isolated for 31⁄2 months now, and I have just seen the message in relation to our nursing home, but there are many other places in our country where we have not opened up so that they actually have to get ahead of the queue, rather than all of us being able to roar around 10,000 people and enjoy ourselves together at a football stadium.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133411	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133412	In general terms, I would say that we must not have 10,000 people together as long as there is a global pandemic, and that is why the parties have agreed that there is a limit of 500 people in the case of assemblies until 31 August. I therefore agree with what is at the root of the issue, because listening to the public debate tends to focus on very resourceful ones which, for one reason or another, continue to be subject to restrictions. When I am positive about football, it is because there is nothing I want more as Prime Minister than that Denmark opens up completely again and that as many people as possible can live a normal life. But we also know that some of those who may have the longest way to normal life are those who just cannot get the disease. And it is quite true that now there will be more openness here than there are restrictions, for example. About some of the older ones. And we will continue to face some dilemmas because, on the one hand, we know that we must shield our elderly, chronically ill, terminal patients and others from having covid-19. On the other hand, we can also see now that the human cost of being isolated or partially isolated can for many people exceed the fear of the other at least. I believe that there are still some dilemmas, but basically I agree that perhaps, at all the speed with regard to decommissioning, there has not been a strong enough focus on how to lift some of the restrictions in relation to the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133558	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133559	I am glad that the Prime Minister supports SF in this, because when we look at the vulnerable groups, some of them have been the most mast of the corona. I received an email not too many days ago from a sister to a hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital. The person who has been committed has been there for 31⁄2 months without visiting relatives because of corona, and she is now considering taking her own life because she feels insanely isolated. This is precisely where we, as a society, must also be weighed and measured, in terms of how we look after those who are most vulnerable. That is why I think there must be some proportion to this debate. Because I would also like us to open everything up, but we also have to remember that there are some people in this society who are in fact in danger of being hit even harder by the corona than otherwise. So it was just to put proportions on that debate. I am in favour of opening up Denmark, but I think we should also remember the vulnerable in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133701	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133703	I very, very much agree with what is being said. We are also considering, if a vaccine waits for it... no one can say yet when that vaccine is ready... and the infection may eventually flare up for one reason or another, how we deal with such a society in the future. Some have said a little harshly that it is just about the elderly and the vulnerable staying at home, and then the rest of society can open up. But that is not the society we want. Because, of course, families must be able to be together. Life should not end because one reaches a certain age, and we cannot basically make society work if a very large group of Danes are afraid to die of a disease and without one being able to live a normal life. So I think that, apart from the fact that we should have lifted some restrictions, we have discussed this a lot between the parties, and thank you for the work that has been going on there is also waiting for a discussion on the a little longer track on how we arrange ourselves with a virus that we haven't had before between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133818	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133819	That is the really good question, namely that we must learn from corona. It is, of course, a question of perhaps moving in smaller groups in the future as well. We can see in our day care facilities that during corona you have been in smaller groups of children and that this has actually meant that the infection has not been extremely large among the children. There may be other reasons for this, I recognise, but it is also because we have also had minimum standards in many parts of the country. In some areas, regular teams have been chosen in the care of the elderly. This means that it was immediately known who was infected, because the infection had often come from the staff into the elderly group. The same is true in our nursing home, where you have divided it into zones. I think that we should learn from this with a view to the future welfare society, which is why I would like to end with a question which I do not think surprises the Prime Minister: should we not start to look at advancing minimum standards in relation to the Finance Act as one of the elements that is both good for the children, good for the parents, because they are safe in relation to their children, but which in reality is also good in relation to the Corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133919	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609133920	There is an incredible amount to learn after corona or more correctly: after the first half. It is true that there are some good experiences, including with regard to the infection. Some of it is certainly about how to organize, but I also think it has to be said that it is not many snotty noses that you are seeing out in the day institutions right now. There are not many employees who come half-sick into their jobs. That is certainly part of the explanation too. So there's a lot we need to learn. I think it is far too early to lay down what a Finance Act for next year should contain, but I sense that there are quite a lot of desires both for economic recovery and for the Finance Act. So let us take that discussion as we approach autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134011	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. There's a little dance along the way. There you go, laughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134021	We can give you a little show like that, maybe, me and Pia, I think that would be... no, sorry, that was too much. We have to go back to talking about economic crisis, because although the health part of the corona crisis is going well right now, we are also facing a serious economic crisis. Really, many thousands have already lost their jobs, thousands are on pay compensation and at the risk of losing their jobs when we have to phase out the aid packages at some point. And especially the small businesses are affected despite aid packages and do not have the prospect of a flood of tourists entering Sommerdanmark for good health reasons. In Enhedslisten we have suggested that we stimulate Danish domestic demand by making a summer check of 10,000 DKK. to all Danes with an income below DKK 350,000. a year. This would mean that we could help students, pensioners, unemployed people and some of the employees who have some of the hardest but also the lowest paid jobs, cashiers and bus drivers and all those who have actually stood in the front line through the Corona crisis. They could have a little sweeter summer. For some of the poorest children's families it might even mean that the thing about having a bathing ball or a trip to Fårup Sommerland was nothing, just the other children would have. At the same time, it would have a stimulating effect on our economy. It would help small business owners, increase their turnover, because, as several economic wise men have also pointed out, those with the fewest money most often are much more likely to actually go out and use them out there where there is a need for the wheels to get going. It would be an investment in our community, no doubt about it, just as we have done with the aid packages. It is not free, but it would strengthen domestic demand and it would help a lot of small businesses. Is this a proposal that the government can see itself in and see opportunities in when, hopefully, we are about to negotiate a so-called stimulus package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134234	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134235	Quite frankly, I have great sympathy for the idea and can see that many economists recommend what is called helicopter money. It's such a strange concept, so this is that because of the situation we're in, you're stimulating demand at home. I think it is true, moreover, that there are some in a society who have a greater tendency to convert such a summer cheque or money that is otherwise brought in directly into something that also puts themselves in employment for some others. This reminds us a little of the discussion we are having with each other about holiday money, which is another way of dealing with helicopter money. There have also been other proposals, and we are not in a place right now where we, as a government, reject good ideas. We are probably going to be the boring party to these negotiations and point out that there is also an economy that needs to be linked over the other side of this. However, our approach is in fact the same as that of several other parties: we need to get the economy back on track. We also note that the Prime Minister has been wrong in this process, because if I had been asked two months ago when the Corona thundered out in the world, if the Prime Minister, when we arrived in June, thought that the Danes would again be diligent restaurant visitors and swing the dance card, I would have said no. I actually said no. But when I look out in the street picture, and it's both in Randers and in Aalborg and in Copenhagen and other places I've been, and we can also see it on the numbers, then it's actually going well with the consumption. So there are some things that go well. We have no doubt that we need to stimulate the economy both now and in the autumn too, but now we are embarking on negotiations in the Ministry of Finance on phasing out aid packages and thus on a more long-term economy. And I don't really think it's our job to just shoot down the ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134439	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134440	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is taking such a relatively positive view of this and, of course, we would also like to look at how to do it differently or better. I think the most important thing is, as the Prime Minister also says, that we are targeting it to some of those who have the least income. For those groups are much more likely to go out and spend the money so that they get out to work and increase the demand and all that famous speed in the wheels that we are talking about, whereas those who already have a lot will perhaps be more likely to sew them into the mattress or more contemporaryly put them into the account, and then it does not have the same economic effect. That is why the Enhedslisten, with our proposal, is also in contradiction to some of it, such as. has been proposed under the same heading with helicopter money from the right. The left has among other things: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. And as has been pointed out by many in addition to the Enhedslisten, I believe also the economic wise men, it will certainly be shooting with dispersal hail, and it will also mean that some of the money that we all have to pay off at some point will go to the savings of some of those who have a lot. Does the Prime Minister not agree that there should be a targeting of the lowest incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134555	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134556	First of all, I would like to say that when we choose to have a little open mind, it is because we are in an extraordinary situation and we would like to have broad cooperation, including on the economy. That does not mean that I have today agreed that certain groups should receive 10,000 kroner. When I say it a little harsh, it's because I saw a headline in B.T. Yesterday, when it said, money coming to you. That's all about clicking on the news. Then you click in, and it says: Christiansborg is on his way with a gift to the Danes. I think it is such a pity about this type of journalism, because we, all the parties, have an open discussion with each other about how best to help Danish economy, and that is already being translated into some newspapers, at least, that it has been decided, and it is not. We're nowhere near making decisions in this area. So it's just for the expectation vote. We meet each other with an open mind, but that doesn't mean that anyone has to start capturing 10,000 kr. in their budget. Then there is the specific question of whether to target or not. I agree with the analysis, given that some people will translate the money more quickly than others. Conversely, one could say that it is all Denmark that has been through a corona crisis, so why not do something that really benefits all of us. Anyway, I don't really disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134716	Mrs Pernille Skipper with the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134717	I can completely deny that it should be Enhedslisten who writes headlines in B.T. We are aware that it has not yet been adopted, and that is why I am in favour of it. I fully agree that there are two sides to this matter. It is not only a question of what is beneficial to the economy, but it is also a question. When Enhedslisten proposes that we target it to some of the lowest incomes, but therefore also quite ordinary employees, it is both a question of what is most effective and of how we spend the money wiseest, but it is also a question of fairness and justice. The inequality in Denmark has increased over the past many years. I think it was 27 billion. kr., the previous government was spent on tax relief alone during a single reign, which has mainly benefited the richest in our society. It is money that could have been spent on common welfare and benefited all of us. That is also why we are proposing that we take account of some with the lowest incomes. This is both because it is economically quite cynical, but also because it is the most fair thing for some of those who have the least money in our society to have a slightly sweeter summer. Those who have a lot will get all the coffee and all the bathballs and all the trips to Fårup Sommerland they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134831	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134832	There's a lot of what I'm sympathetic to. I'm not gonna lay down on how we're gonna do this the smartest way. I still believe that we know something about the Danish economy now that we can respond to, but we really do not know where the Danish economy is in 3 or 4 months' time because of the situation in the world economy. We have a great many export companies to which we must pay very, very great attention, and they do not necessarily get better conditions by stimulating demand which can benefit some other industries. I have to say that I immediately have more tricks on what is called helicopter money than on the VAT issue, and there are quite a lot of economists who warn against it. This is primarily because the moment you set up VAT, and you will be forced to do so at some point, because it is a very, very large source of income, you are in fact in danger of having a new economic setback and a stop and go policy. What we need, even if time runs out, is to get us through the Corona crisis as well as possible, but do so temporarily, because all forecasts also say that things will stabilise again at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134942	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609134947	Thank you. 25,000 kroner. I think that is a very good idea, because we need the money to come out into our society. We need to get the economy going. There is also something of a backlog for a number of industries, one might say. Danish Occupation has estimated that it will create approx. 32,000 jobs, and personally I dare to make an assessment saying that it would give the Danes some pleasure to get their own holiday money back. When we froze the holiday money, it was because we had no better chance. It happened in 2018. We made a new holiday law, and if we had released 100 billion at the time. kr. to society, we risked an overheating of the economy, and today the economy is just somewhere else. We also froze the holiday money because many of the money was in the companies. If we took the money out of the companies, they lost their liquidity. After all, we have found a solution to this problem by granting a State-guaranteed loan. It is also a model that may not be so surprisingly supported by the FH and the Danish Employers' Association. So that's a good suggestion. We do not want to dig deep into the state's coffers, because it is a loan we are dealing with after all. So I would really like to hear the Prime Minister: what is against us paying out the Danes' own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135120	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135121	I am quite sure that not much will be quoted from this Question Time, because now we have a real political discussion with each other, and then it turns out that the differences are not necessarily so great and that, moreover, all parties are preoccupied with finding the best solutions. Then, of course, there will be some ideological differences, but we are actually striving for the same thing right now: to hold hands under the Danish economy, get the wheels going where they are not already in progress, and thus support employment. Well, there is not much that speaks against this, and that is why, of course, it is also very much part of our deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135156	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135158	That sounds good, and I could stop here. I think I'm just gonna ask you one more question about the case. It is a good thing that we have ideological differences in this Chamber, and that is a good thing, because otherwise it was also boring. The previous questioner would spend other people's money. I just want to give people their own money back, and I still think that is a sympathetic move when I myself have to make a political analysis objectively, I would say that I am quite right about that. After all, we are not in a situation where the economy is in danger of becoming overheated. I think we can say that. So I hear what the Prime Minister says, but when there is not so much that speaks against, I would like to ask when the Prime Minister will expect us to be able to clarify this. Because otherwise we're gonna have to hurry up and do something so we can make this money work. I fear a little for it: is something going to happen? Isn't something gonna happen? What kind of package is that? You're just gonna give people a few thousand dollars, 'cause I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135307	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135309	It is still a man with a certain self-confidence who stands in the Chamber and gives himself grades. It is very sympathetic, and it has a lot of sense. After all, we are now in a situation where there is a tripartite agreement on the end of the aid packages, and I would also like to thank the social partners for having made the wage compensation in the first place. Now there is a tripartite agreement. There will be political negotiations this week with the Minister for Finance. We think it would be natural that when we discuss the end of the aid packages, we also start discussing it a little longer-term about the economy. It could, for example, be done. also be the holiday money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135358	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen with one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135400	It's home, I almost wanted to say. But let's see. I take it down positively and look forward to further discussions. I guess I'd like to change completely, I guess. We have now been through a very special situation in our society. We've asked people to stay home in a large part of the country. Many people have risked their jobs and many have become unemployed. We've been in a situation where we couldn't visit our old people because they could risk getting infected. Everything has simply been dependent on each and every one of us, as citizens of this society, taking responsibility for not bringing infection to others. The Prime Minister and the authorities have held a host of press meetings and have informed the people. Now I am not asking the question of questioning people's constitutional rights, but what does the Minister think of the socialism shown at the Black Lives Matter demonstration, where extremists are at the forefront and have said in the past that three members of parliament who have been democratically elected should be thrown into prison? That is one thing; we can take that debate at another time. But what does the Prime Minister think about the social spirit that is behind making such a demonstration, with all the things we've risked in this society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135513	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135514	First of all, I would like to thank you for the agreement we could make yesterday to start lifting the ban on the assembly. This is, of course, one of the restrictions that I think many people are most looking forward to going away. We can do that because the infection is under control and things are going as well as they are. After all, we have chosen to say from the outset, and I am in favour of that, that political statements and thus also assemblies are exempt from the ban on assembly. And we should not have much thought to imagine that, if we had said the opposite, we would have denied one of the most important constitutional rights we have, namely to gather together. When you have to get together, you can also make a demonstration, and I will not speak against it. But, of course, my call is quite clear, as in all kinds of other respects, that we should keep our distance, that we should wash our hands and drink off, and that we should take care of each other and ourselves. And then you just have to know with the knowledge we have about the disease today that it is a disease that is contagious when many people gather, and not least, if there are drops, what can also be associated with such a type of manifestation. So it makes quite a lot of demands, it must be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135626	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135632	Thank you. Should a 16-year-old child break be accommodated with a grown man at an asylum center? Of course not. That's what common sense says. It could have been my own words, but it isn't. It is a quote from the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, here in the Assembly Hall on 7 February 2017. In 2017, there was no wavering in the social democratic ranks when the speech fell on the brides of children. It was also, of course, during the period when the Social Democratic Party was working to convince the Danes that they had changed in terms of foreign policy and would now solve it from scratch. At that time, the Social Democratic Party spoke straight out of the bag. It was understandable to everyone that child brides from the Islamic culture should not be accepted in Denmark. But they were crossed by the conventions. To that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, during the same debate: it would be grotesque if it were to be provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, and even more grotesque if it were to be the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which would actually protect the man who commits abuse, and not the child. Again, I could not have said it better myself, but it was a Socialist who said it. Now the grotesque turned out to be reality. Some of the men were allowed to keep their children's brides in bed in the room, because this is the way the country is now in Denmark when it is other than ourselves that passes the laws. When the Social Democracy came to power, one of the first things that was done was to set up a commission that was only set up in the world to passiveise the minister, Mrs Inger Løbberg, who actually made an effort to secure Danish values, also at the asylum centres. The political spectacle process must now take its course, but what does the government intend to do to protect the girls, the child bride, from harm both now and in the future? Will we have a law based on Danish values, or does it not matter to the government today that older men keep the child bride in bed at Danish asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135838	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609135839	No, it does not matter, and there is only reason to reject marriages between a child on the one hand and an adult on the other. It doesn't belong anywhere, either in Denmark or in other countries, and you can't hide behind a religion or a culture. That's all it is. Our position is completely unchanged. I had hoped that the quote was my own, but it wasn't the Minister's idea, but I might as well have said it and have given it in other contexts and can fully support it. No matter what you think about all kinds of issues, the law must be kept, and it must be, whether it is a Danish law or it is on the basis of the conventions that we have signed. It is no use basing a society on lawlessness, either in one context or another, and that means specifically in the field of aliens, it applies to the previous government, it applies to this government, and it will also apply to a future government that in some places you have to compromise with what you mean. You can't argue about keeping the law. After all, a country cannot have a government that will not comply with either the national law or the international obligations that exist, because then it will be a lawless society, and in my view no party or politician can defend it. That does not change the fact that we must do everything we can to combat the fact that there are child brides and not in any way show our support or our support for them, and certainly not relativise and say that it is probably very cosy because you come from another culture. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140016	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140017	But now it is the government that has the right to serve in order to make new legislation. And unfortunately I didn't get an answer as to what the government would do to prevent this or I got an answer, but it was probably more for the benefit of the Muslim men than it was for my benefit and many other Danes who didn't think that Islamic rules should apply at Danish asylum centres. Allow me to quote Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's conclusion here in the Chamber from the debate on 7 February 2017: "Then I will say to the 17-year-old refugee girls who say themselves that they would rather live with an adult man: Fine, but then you will have to wait until you are 18... and show some respect for the values that exist in this country. How will the Prime Minister speak to the 17-year-old girls today? What are the values that must be respected today? And can the Danes have respect for the Social Democracy when there is such a difference between what was said before the elections and what now plans to do after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140118	But there is no difference in our attitude. We have not at any time been convinced that we should not comply with the law or the international rules which Denmark has agreed to. Moreover, the former government did not think so. There is the discussion about child brides, and we could also discuss citizenship. I have said on previous occasions that I find it deeply problematic that we have a convention that protects people who do not want Denmark well. So there are also elements in the conventions that I am sceptical about. But if you run this argument to the end, that at will we almost no matter how good a heart we do it with • can choose as politicians to override either the basic law, ordinary law or European and international regulation, where do we end up? Is it supposed to be that because you think you are in your right what I think you are when it comes to minors and marriages, you just have to be able to override the law? What, then, of another majority who thinks that legislation should be disregarded on the other side? Then it is a lawless society, and I guess we can't really defend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140229	Mrs Pernille Vermund, on behalf of the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140230	But the big difference here is that you have the opportunity to legislate out of this. But the government, like previous governments, would rather put international conventions at the top than the Danish values... that's what it is. Finally, allow me to ask three questions in one: what increased risk of infection will it be if a Norwegian tourist stays overnight at the Plaza Hotel in Copenhagen rather than at the Skovshoved Hotel in Gentofte? What is the increased risk of infection that the Hansen family is going on holiday in Croatia instead of in Germany? And why is there no possibility of being tested for covid-19 when you arrive at the airport in Kastrup? I ask because the travel guides and restrictions in the tourist industry seem illogical, unreasonable and unreasonable. We cannot afford to conduct policies based on emotion rather than on reason, let alone on tens of thousands of jobs and billions in turnover. So please: the three questions are simple and straightforward, and I would, of course, prefer an answer based on reason and logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140336	Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140338	Hopefully, my answers always make sense. But I do not want to be stuck with me, nor do I want the government, that we would rather abide by international conventions than respect Danish values. We have said, and we have laid the foundations for our governance, that the international commitments Denmark has entered into and signed up to must be respected, and that is because we basically do not believe in a world society without any rules of the game. And I think that all experience shows us that the rule-based world society that arises in the wake of World War II has until now been the best protection against all the ice cream and against everything that you cannot want for a population. That is because if countries start to renounce conventions and get out of them, then the rule-based world society smokes, and I simply cannot recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140449	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140458	Thank you. In the last few days I have been thinking about the adventure of Cinderella, which, as you know, is that Cinderella is going to the big ball, but unfortunately she has to leave before midnight, because she has to go home. As I said several times in the last few days, I have thought about the fine adventure, partly because of the wedding policy, because it is a bit the same, because all the guests after the bridal wedding have to leave and home by midnight, and of course you can have a little difficulty in understanding this, partly because of the government's policy in relation to tourism in Copenhagen. It is also a bit of a pot policy, so to speak, where tourists are allowed to visit Copenhagen, because it is safe, it is safe, and it is fine, but as soon as it is midnight, you have to leave, probably to a local community where there is a higher pressure of infection, and then stay there overnight. After all, I do not think that the government or the Prime Minister is so crazy about Cinderella that one is actually basing one's policy on that adventure, and therefore I really think it would be fair to the many companies and employees in the tourism industry in Copenhagen that we get an explanation as to why Copenhagen should not accept overnight tourists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140604	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140606	Isn't it in the fairy tale of Cinderella that it all ends well and happily? You have to go through so much, a pumpkin, evil step sisters and other things, but the mice and birds help, and then it all ends well. Hopefully, this will also be the conclusion of a year 2020, which would turn out to be quite different than any of us could have anticipated. In relation to the discussion about weddings, I would like to say that this is a hasty discussion. We have rules today in relation to the delicacy, and it's not very fun to have a wedding that ends at 1 p.m. 24. Now there will be negotiations between the parties in that area too, and can we not find a friendly, pragmatic solution to that too? We have succeeded in doing so on a number of other issues. Tourism is a really, really difficult matter. We have become a major tourist country and a great many people live on tourism, and that is why we must open the borders as quickly as possible. That is the position of many parties, I know, and that is also the position of the government. Conversely, we know that there is a certain risk associated with tourism, because that was certainly how corona came to Denmark. So it's moving, and that's why we have to figure out how to do this in a way that doesn't compromise what we've achieved in the spring. In general terms, I would also say in relation to the borders and thus tourism that until now we have made a phase-in opening of Denmark, and it has gone well so far, 7-9-13, but we have also been able to move things forward in a couple of stages and make it faster, and it is my hope that we can do so on the border issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140743	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140745	Let's hope it ends up like Cinderella. The good conclusion would be that the opening of borders would be brought forward further and also by tourism to Copenhagen, because otherwise I think there is also an unfortunate end to these things, self-employed people going bankrupt, employees in the hotel, catering and tourism industry in Copenhagen who are losing their jobs. It's unhappy, and maybe they'll look at the evil step sister and blame her. I am not going to continue along that path with those comparisons. What I miss is actually a reason, because it was not the health authorities who recommended that it should be exactly in Copenhagen, where the pressure of infection is therefore not greater than it is in Aarhus or Odense, where tourists are allowed to come, they are not allowed to be. They may be in North Zealand and in the surrounding municipalities where there is a higher pressure of infection, but in Copenhagen they may not. After midnight they must leave, and they must not stay there, and if they want to come near Copenhagen at all, they must have at least 5 nights. It seems illogical and arbitrary, and it has consequences for real people. And since it is the government's decision and not a recommendation from the authorities, I think it is actually fair that the Prime Minister should explain why the choice has been made, that tourists should preferably stay away from Copenhagen, because that is the consequence of government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140851	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609140853	It's all about finding a way. As far as I know, no country has yet opened up everything with regard to their travel restrictions. There are some countries that make corridors, there are some countries that, like us, do something with neighbouring countries, and then we have a Germany which, as far as I know, is one of the countries that is willing to go long ago. Yesterday I spoke to my colleague in New Zealand, who, together with the New Zealand people, has succeeded in perhaps getting rid of the covid-19 and a huge congratulations on that and we talked about border issues, and they are not where they open the borders, and there is a reason for that. We are, of course, afraid of what will happen when we open the borders, and that is why we have chosen to say, in the interests of the Danish tourism sector, that Germany is a very important country to open up to. In relation to Copenhagen, I would say that there is nothing I would rather than wish all tourists a welcome to Copenhagen. We just have the challenge that if many people are gathered in one place, there is also a risk of infection, and that is nothing more than a balancing of what we believe can be done in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141006	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141008	But that is why we have drawn up guidelines. That is why we are required to use hand alcohol when you are in a restaurant, that there must be distance, that there must be so many in the premises and that there is reduced speed on the carousels in Tivoli, and what do I know? In other words, it is not the case that the risk of infection is greater by the fact that there are Germans in Tivoli than by the fact that there are Danes in Tivoli, or that the risk of infection is greater by the fact that it is Germans who spend the night in a hotel in Copenhagen than know that it is the Jutes who spend the night in a hotel in Copenhagen. So that is why it is difficult to make sense that tourism to Copenhagen will be cut off with the major consequences it has for people who are self-employed who go bankrupt, people who lose their jobs. When it is the case that we have guidelines that make it safe for the Danes to gather around Copenhagen, it must be for foreigners too, especially when they are allowed to come to Copenhagen in advance, but just must not stay there. So the policy of the government has the consequence of cutting off a lot of tourism in Copenhagen, and I really do miss a better reason than the one that has so far been given today on why one chooses to do so when it has such great consequences for people. I do not think the reasons are good enough yet, I must admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141111	I can confirm that the responsibility will never come out of us, either in relation to what is going well or what is going badly not at all the latter. But I have to arrest the premise that it is because of the Danish Government that there are challenges for tourism. The last time I looked for was the estimate that global tourism is going down by 70%. Well, people aren't leaving right now, and of course there's a good reason for that. Now I just saw that England is opening up to tourism, but it is then with 14 days of quarantine, as I understand it. Well, every country is trying to find a way in this. And the only thing you and I know, if you can say so in the Parliament hall, is that we don't know everything about this virus. Actually, we don't know what that means when we start opening the border. We also do not know what consequences it will have for Denmark, which is a small country with a small area, if there are very many people from outside. We don't know what that consequence is. We know, however, that things have gone well so far, and that is why we are also a place where we can start opening the border. We are even one of the countries that does this before many others, also for the sake of our tourism. And again: I hope, of course, that we can advance it if it proves possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141221	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141232	Thank you, President. My first questions will deal with reduced working hours and a 30-hour working week. Because of the corona crisis, almost the whole country has experimented with how we actually handle having more time. There is no doubt that the corona crisis has been hard for many, not least the vulnerable sections of the population, who have been very lonely, but also, of course, for our businesses and our economy. However, we also see that a breathing hole has been created for many people who have been sent home or have saved time working from home. Many of us have been more with our family and our children than we have been for a long time, and at the same time we have had the opportunity to cultivate interests and hobbies much more intensely than we have been able to do for a long time. Many people have been happy about that, and I also think that many people are going back into the hamster wheel with a certain sadness, because we are again getting further away from what matters to us. At the same time, we are re-entering a labour market which, for many people, consumes both their physical and mental health. Every day there are 35,000 people on sick leave because of mental stress. 430,000 people experience symptoms of stress every day. 500,000 people feel burned out at work because of stress. It's worth 14 billion. kr. per year on stress-related expenditure. And then we also see that a great many people are being worn out in the labour market, so we need to discuss flexible retirement and early retirement etc. etc. That is why I am interested in what the Prime Minister thinks about reduced working hours in the light of the experience gained from the corona crisis. What does the Prime Minister think about those experiences, and how can reduced working hours be specifically used in the re-opening of society after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141424	There are three things I would like to give in response. One is that one of the reasons why Denmark is a rich country is that we work and that both Mom and Dad do it and that we do it for as many years as possible. That's why you just have to know that if we start to want to work less, we're gonna get poorer. It may be that some have experienced corona as a breathing hole, but society has become much poorer during this period. So I think you should bring that. The second point I would like to make is that the issue of whether you have had good time during the Corona crisis is incredibly unevenly distributed. The Danes, who have the hardest jobs, have also worked under the corona, and they have even been more at risk of infection than so many others. I think we must be honest and say that many of those who have experienced this as a breathing hole are very much the part of the Danish population who have good jobs where you can work on the computer and in front of the screen from home. So it's been very unevenly distributed. I think, of course, that it is very good, also for the sake that the covid-19 is still a global pandemic, that anyone who can work staggeredly, work away from home, flex more and organise work in a different way does it. This is something we should very much like to continue to do, because it is good, compared with the fact that there may be a risk of infection, even into the autumn. In general terms, however, I would give an incredibly classic social democratic answer: you have to go to work, you have to support yourself, you have to put an honour in doing so if you can at all. One of the reasons why Denmark is so well-off to a society is that we have one of the world's highest employment rates, and I am deeply grateful that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141553	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141555	Yes, I agree with much of it, but it is a little paradox that we work and work and work to create wealth and that, while we work so much, we get farther away from what matters to us at least many of us. My next question is more general. Since 1900 working hours have been reduced from 60 hours a week to 37 hours, not least because the Social Democrats have been able to inspire the social partners to reduce working hours. In 1990 working hours then ended in 37 hours, and since then it has not been reduced. On the other hand, legislation is being introduced which means that we all have to work longer. My question is as to what signal the Prime Minister will send to all of us who are in favour of reduced working hours, and indeed to a 30-hour working week, for example. funded by changing pay increases for free time. My question is: where do the Prime Minister see openings in relation to the debate on reduced working hours and perhaps an attempt to inspire the social partners to resume discussions on reduced working hours? The issue must be seen in the light of the fact that the corona epidemic has shown that many of us work so much that we do not have time for what matters most to us in our lives, for example. the close relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141700	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141701	I really want to be approachable, but we are incredibly divided, and I have promised myself not to say no again, no, no, as I did in relation to the civil salary, even though I really mean it. Now I said it anyway. But I am not in favour of reducing working hours. I'm in favour of going to work. And I am also in favour of taking pride in it and supporting oneself. In fact, I think that we have the opposite challenge, namely that there are too many people in Danish society who are not part of the workforce, either because they are not allowed to do so because of mental illness or other things, where I think we should be much more inclusive or because unfortunately there is also a large group, especially with a non-western background, which does not make enough effort to go to work and thus help support both themselves and their families, but also to support the entire Danish society. I am very open to discussing flexibility, not least with regard to seniors. However, in general terms, I think it is an incredibly good idea to go to work, also to do it 37 hours a week, if you can at all and also like to take pride in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141811	Torsten Gejl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141812	The last question is, after all, every time from our Members. Our members are currently very concerned about the Danish model in that the benefit period has been reduced from 7 years to 2 years. The amount of benefit is reduced so that it no longer corresponds to 90%. of the average wage, but perhaps 40-60 per cent. It is as if unemployment has become the individual's problem and the individual's fault. The employer still has the same right to fire. What's the PM thinking about that balance? Is there still balance in the Danish model, and how can we perhaps change that development and make sure that we get more, as it were, for our daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141852	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141853	So, I would say: I think the discussion about the Danish model is quite relevant. We are also considering this because it is a completely brilliant labour market model, and it is actually good for both employees and companies. We will not again be in favour of a 7-year unemployment benefit period in the Social Democratic Party. In fact, I think in many ways it did more harm than it did good. But, on the other hand, there are some other challenges, not least in relation to what is also being said, at least in part in the question, namely that someone can have an experience that it is their own fault if they lose their job. Unemployment is a social challenge and therefore also a collective responsibility to tackle and challenge. After all, we must pay particular attention to this now that, unfortunately, we are seeing an increase in unemployment due to the corona crisis. So we would very much like to take part in a discussion of the whole Danish model and how we can secure it in a future, including in relation to the free movement of workers, social dumping and other challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609141957	Thank you to the party leaders. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609142005	Today there are the following reviews: Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 180 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reduction of corporation tax and the removal of the ceiling on the employment allowance). Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 181 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on temporary tax relief), motion for a resolution No. Β 182 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a total ban on the burden on the private sector and the cancellation of agreed tax increases) and motion for a resolution No. B 183 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the advance of tax relief from the 2012 tax reform). Jesper Petersen (S), Sophie Løhde (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dams (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP), Sjúrður Skaale (JF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): The query no. F 65 (What can the Prime Minister say about the domestic and foreign policy situation? ) Titles on the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Danish Parliament, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the conditions of municipal and regional council members in relation to leave and sick leave. B67). Does anyone wish to maintain this resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609142115	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609142130	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (V, DF and KF), joined by a minority (S, RV, NB and LA), which together constitute a majority? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (V, DF and KF), joined by a minority (NB and LA), which was rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 of a minority (V, DF and KF), joined by a minority (S, RV, NB and LA), which together constitute a majority? It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 of a minority (V, DF, RV and KF), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609142231	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200609142300	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 14.30. I would point out that there are votes.
