ParlaMint-DK_20200526130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 195 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Tax-Free Senior Premium. Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 196 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities and Various Other Laws. Bill No. L 197 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 198 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Business Promotion. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The European Committee has presented: Report on the Government's handling of Italy's request for assistance following the outbreak of the covid-19. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526130018	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 68 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Carl Valentin (SF) and Rosa Lund (EL). The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 51 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 43 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA) abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 68 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 67 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Morten Dahlin (V) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and proposals for adoption no. V 69 of Marcus Knuth (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526130602	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526130616	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 3 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526130954	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526131018	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The vote was taken on the 35th paragraph of Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 2, 1. (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), voted against 3 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526131357	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526131417	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526131740	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526131753	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132120	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132138	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. That concludes the vote. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 17 (SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 79 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132453	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132538	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 of a minority (EL and ALT) rejected. They are rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132542	That is why we are dealing with the proposal as a whole. And I would like a feeling from the rapporteurs of how many people wish to speak. Because if so, I will turn off the A. I can already see that there are some. I suggest we turn off the A. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526132606	Thank you very much. I need to wear a watch, President, so I can see how long I can talk. President You have 10 minutes). Thank you. The reason why the alternative and I are taking the floor for this second reading is that I do not think we have had the debate that this citizens' proposal on the abolition of mutual dependents deserves. This is a difficult technical debate, which I would like to start with clarification. To be precise, in this speech I refer to the concept of mutual dependency on the spouse and to the reduction of benefits for pensioners and early retirement pensioners and to the mutual obligation to seek cash benefits. That is to say, I use a common concept here. The citizens' proposal we are voting on today, which will abolish mutual dependants, has received over 70,000 signatures from citizens. It is the citizens' proposal that has the greatest support for all the citizens' proposals that we have dealt with in this Parliament. Nevertheless, it is the proposal from the citizens that has been discussed on the very wrong basis. The proposal is for pensioners and early retirement workers to be retired if their spouse or partner or roommate has a job. A citizen's proposal like this is being dealt with over two rounds here in the Folketing. At first reading it will be discussed by the rapporteurs and, at second reading, it will normally be voted on. The only problem is that the debate got out of hand at first reading. In fact, things went a little wrong the evening before the debate, when the Minister for Finance replied to a written question from the SF and replied that it would cost 12.3 billion. kr. to raise the rate for cohabiting pensioners and early retirement pensioners to the level of single persons. This has nothing to do with mutual dependents. Unfortunately, however, the Minister for Employment included the same figure in the Parliamentary Chamber the following day, when he explained in his opening speech that the Ministry of Finance had calculated the price for abolishing mutual obligation to try to do so at 12.3 billion. kr. At least that's what I thought. The problem is that this figure has nothing to do with the abolition of mutual dependents, which the citizens' proposal is about. And the problem is that the figure totally derailed the debate here in the Folketing from the start. Let me just say that I in no way believe that this was a deliberate derailment. It is not my business to accuse the Minister of that. As I understand it, the reason for the confusion from the Minister was that the citizens' proposal was a little unclear from the outset. And I admit it was. That is also why, together with the Enhedslisten, we have clarified this in the report. But I would like to say that we need to get a handle on the interpretation of citizens' proposals. And my suggestion would be to ask those who have made the proposal if a ministry is in doubt. Whatever the case, the figure formed the basis for the rest of the debate as an argument that it would be incredibly expensive to abolish mutual dependents. The figure was repeatedly mentioned as a reason why the parties could not support the citizens' proposal. But the figure of 12.3 billion. kr. 25 times too high. We found this out two weeks later when the Ministry of Finance replied to the question as to what the abolition of mutual obligation would actually cost. And there was the answer 460 million. kr. And that changes so much the conditions for the debate that we actually believe that the whole debate on the citizens' proposal for the abolition of mutual dependents should go over. In the alternative, it is not impossible at all to finance 460 million. a year kr. for the abolition of mutual dependents. Now we are so pleased that the Minister for Employment has agreed to take part in the debate and take the floor at second reading. We look forward to an explanation of how the debate could run so far. And we look forward to hearing the Minister's position on the financing of the proposal, since it now costs only twenty-five per cent of the price we were initially discussing. However, although this suggests that the Folketing will vote the proposal down after this debate, I do not see it as the end of the fight for the abolition of mutual dependents. In other words, the citizen's proposal can be retabled if 50,000 signatures can be collected once more. And frankly, I think you can. The alternative may also put it forward as a motion for a resolution, together with other parties which may be interested, if the advocates of the abolition of mutual dependents so wish. At any rate, we need to get on with this, because there are a great many unknown questions and answers that we need to find out so that we know whether we can finance the abolition of mutual dependents. I have to admit, on good days, I actually think it's gonna be a good business. However, to find out the price of the citizen's proposal, there are several questions that need to be answered. We have to, for example. Find out how many more people would work if mutually dependents were abolished and what income and savings for society would result. According to the Ministry of Finance, the abolition of mutual dependants would mean that more 875 years' work would be carried out in Denmark, so that pensioners, early retirement pensioners and cash benefit recipients would work so much more that it would be equivalent to 875 full-time jobs. One of the questions we will be sending to the Ministry of Finance is how much tax revenue it will contribute to the Treasury. At least it's a two-digit million amount, but is it also three-digit? Another question is how many pensioners and early retirement pensioners would move with a partner whose mutual dependants were abolished. In the live streamed debate from this vote, which is currently running on my facebook page, we have a guest inside who for many years dropped having a boyfriend because she has to live very much on the boyfriend's salary because she is an early retirement. Many people feel like her as second-class citizens when they have to pay a boyfriend to be supported. Among these are many lonely and sick Danes, both among pensioners, but not least of course among early retirementists. Then you can also see what savings will be made in social and health matters if all of these people were free to seek love and tolerance without being a financial burden to their partner. How much would we save in home help, in home care? How much would we save in the cost of treating the consequences of loneliness in Denmark? We're spending 8 billion. kr. per year on expenses related to loneliness. Loneliness is a health hazard. In fact, it is directly fatal in the long run. If we could just save 5%. In fact, the abolition of mutual dependants is largely financed by the cost of society because people are lonely. Then there's the administration thing. Our estimates say that more than 300,000 people are affected by mutual dependents, and when it comes to individual administration, it is a huge duvet vow that is needed to calculate whether people are to be affected by mutual dependents. One must literally check just how many pensioners and early retirement pensioners sleep with their boyfriends a week to see if they have to be retired. How much money does it cost to manage 300,000 people individually? And what part of the funding for the abolition of mutual dependents would be at home if that administration were to be spared? A fourth saving, which can be achieved by abolishing mutual dependents, is for example: in the homeless area. At the time of 2013, when mutual dependants were introduced in the field of cash benefits for cohabitants and cohabitants, the number of people living together typically fell compared to other groups. It was both up to and during the introduction and when mutual dependants were abolished for cohabitants and cohabitants, except spouses, the number of roommates and cohabitants increased atypically compared to the other benefit groups. In short, when people can seek love without having to burden their boyfriend financially, they find love more and move with their boyfriend or loved one. If we abolished mutual dependents, thousands of people would probably move in together and that would result in thousands of empty homes, many of which would be at a reasonable price. If we allowed the homeless to move into housing in accordance with the housing first principle, where they are helped to re-establish a daily life, we could save money in another area with billions of expenditure, namely the homeless area. As everyone can understand, there are many examples of the fact that the abolition of mutual dependants is not only a good human business but also a good economic business. It may be that it is more imagination and good ideas and good will that are lacking than it really is money, so the matter of the abolition of mutual dependents has not ended with today's vote; it has only just begun. There are a lot of questions we need answers to before we know whether it will cost society anything at all to abolish the mutual dependent and, if so, how much. This is not the last time we are taking the debate on this issue, and I believe that we will actually succeed in abolishing mutual dependents along the way, because I simply believe that the funding will give itself just as quietly when you look at the dynamic effects. It may well be that the elephant has to be cut into slices and that it has to be done gradually and, of course, we have to have the abolition of mutual dependants for the recipients of cash benefits included in the calculation; this proposal is only for pensioners and early retirement pensioners. I hope the recipients of the cash benefits will be included in the calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133509	I'm gonna need to hear sir. Karsten Hønge and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, whether they wish to speak on a brief note or as rapporteur. Both! Then it's first, sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133519	The little clarity that could have been over this debate is definitely gone after Mr. Torsten Gejl's rapporteur's speech, because, fortunately, there is a long way to go in the same way as confusion between concepts. What we are discussing, as I understand it now, is the benefit for pensioners and early retirement pensioners for whom there is no mutual dependency. So what kind of a mix of concepts is that? There's just not Torsten Gejl that consistent. It is perhaps a political strategy that we simply create so much uncertainty and muddle so much that people simply lose the sense of this debate, and then the alternative can stand as those who believe that this money is obviously to be given. Mr President, I fully agree with the spouse's dependence on early retirement, which is what we are dealing with here. Torsten Gejl you must be removed. The SF has been arguing for this for years. We are in complete agreement. I would like to ask specifically about the pensioners. Following the calculation in reply to me from 20 December last year, there are 140,000 pensioners who will be reduced in benefit if the proposal is implemented. What do you got, sir? Torsten Gejl intends to answer the 140,000 folk pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133623	I am very sorry that the SF's rapporteur did not listen from the outset, because I simply said quite clearly that, to be precise, in this speech, I use the concept of mutual dependency on spouses and the reduction of benefits for pensioners and early retirement pensioners and mutual dependants for cash benefit recipients. I stood there and said that quite clearly, and then the SF's rapporteur stands up and says that I am muddling the debate together. Well, what's to be done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133657	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133658	Unfortunately, Mr. Torsten Gejl alone his speech to stand and smear the SF instead of answering the question that I am now asking again: What is Mr. Torsten Gejl's answer to the 140,000 retired people who will be reduced if this proposal is adopted? And don't make any more talk about the rapporteur not messing up the concepts. Everyone can hear the rapporteur constantly use the word'mutual', and it applies only to married cash aid recipients, regardless of the alternative's attempts to mute the waters so that people lose sight of it. But please give the answer: what is the answer to the 140,000 retired people who will be reduced if this proposal is implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133733	I don't know what to do, because I said it so extremely clearly at first. I said extremely clearly at the beginning that, when I use the word'married', I am talking about spouse dependency and reduction in benefits for pensioners. So it is amazing, because I am simply saying it so clearly and I cannot understand how the SF's rapporteur can in any way be confused about it. As for, if it were generally the case that mutual dependants were a bad thing for pensioners to get rid of, I do not think that there would be 70,000 people who had signed this, and 63,000 people in Facebook groups who fought for it on Facebook.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133813	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133818	Thank you. I think that the debate we are witnessing now is very well suited to the problem of citizens' proposals if it is not addressed and there is no clarity about what the citizens' proposal is about before it comes to the Chamber. Because, as I understand it, the SF and the alternative are actually quite agreed on the substance, but where the alternative reads something into the proposal, which does not actually appear in the citizens' proposal, but which is perhaps the intention of the citizens' proposal, then the SF looks at what it really is, the citizen's proposal is about and what it is that we are going to vote on, and that is the problem. So I hope that you may have some kind of process in the future, in which you can correct these citizens' proposals and have a dialogue with the people who are putting forward the citizens' proposals. Because in New Citizens we also want to see this dependency abolished, but it is true, as the SF also says, that, as described in the citizens' proposal, if you read it in concrete terms, there are a large number of inappropriate things. Does the alternative share our view that there are some shortcomings if you read it in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526133918	Yes, I do. And that is why, together with the Enhedslisten, we have tabled an amendment which fully clarifies it so that we know exactly what we are talking about. So you can just vote in favour of this, because then this citizen's proposal is completely clarified. Then I think that if you have doubts about what a citizen's proposal is about another time as a ministry, you should ask the authors, in other words those who have tabled the citizen's proposal. They don't have a lot of officials to help them out, so it would be great if the ministry were to address them directly and say: Cut this out properly now we are helping to get it formulated. But we have done so in an amendment, so if you want to be involved in that clarification, you just have to vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134000	To be absolutely precise, it's just that we have it's just that there shouldn't be any misunderstanding. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134010	It is not so simple that we could then simply vote in favour of the amendments, because, as the rapporteur also said, there are a large number of calculations which we have not received, of what consequences it will then have if these amendments are adopted; they should also be dealt with. That is why I share the rapporteur's view that the question of marital reciprocity is not a closed debate; we will be working on that, but we must of course do it on an enlightened basis, so we have the correct figures to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134037	Well, I totally agree with that. That's also why we have to go through this again. We need to ask the right questions to the Ministry of Finance, we need to get the right answers, we need to find out what it costs, we need to find out exactly who it is about, and we need to find out how far we really are in funding through dynamic effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134050	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134054	Thank you. You can be confused at a slightly higher level about this citizen's proposal when you hear Mr. Torsten Gejl starts by saying that this is about pensioners and early retirement, and then in the amendments there is spouse dependency instead of mutual dependents, but spouse dependency also applies to cash benefits recipients who are dependent on each other, and this also applies to integration benefit recipients who are dependent on each other. If it was the case that it was only old-age pensioners and early-retirement pensioners, you wouldn't have to write it as it is here. Well, that's what's at the disadvantage of it. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl: Torsten Gejl, that the proposal, with the amendments tabled together with the Enhedslisten, only deals with pensioners and early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134146	Yes, that is what the proposal is supposed to be, and that is what we, together with the other authors of the motion, have tried to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134200	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134202	[Audience outages]... for spouse dependency and mutual dependents have the same meaning. You don't change it by saying it's a spouse addiction. If there are two dependent cash benefits recipients or if there is one who has a job and one who is a married cash benefit recipient, it is also spouse dependency. These amendments do not change that. Then it should have been withdrawn and said that it only concerns pensioners and early retirement; then we had another case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134236	I think that is an exceptionally good advice to those who have to put it again. Next time, this citizen's motion or motion for a resolution will have to be sharp, because it is deadly complicated. That is also why I am trying to take the reservations at the beginning of the speech where I say that when I talk about mutual dependents, I am talking about everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134255	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. If I have understood correctly, it is now the case that Bent Bøgsted, Karsten Hønge, Victoria Velasquez and Lars Boje Mathiesen have asked to speak as rapporteur. And the Minister for Employment has also asked to speak, as far as I know. Karsten Hønge says no, thank you. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526134315	Thank you for that, President. This really just shows how complicated this resolution is and how much confusion can come out of it. For it started with the fact that there was a "reciprocal employee," and that was in good sense. We in the Danish People's Party fully understand that you are tired of the way in which early retirement and old-age pensions are set off. If one has an income and they live together, there must be a set-off. So we fully understand that. I have talked to many people, and there are a lot of people who say: why are we not allowed to move in with one as early as possible? We fully understand this, but it is muddled by the use of words that are mutually dependent, when we know that very much of what people are dissatisfied with is actually the different rules of set-off in different legislation. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party are also prepared to have a closer look at this and then stick to the pure product, in relation to what you really want. A great many questions have been asked, and on the basis of the list of answers that has been received, we can start to cross over which legislative proposals we should then tackle and what negotiations we need to start to solve this task, rather than adopting B 34, which deals with mutual dependants. Then I know that an amendment has been tabled to change the wording of spouse dependency, but that gives the same result. It is exactly the same whether there is a spouse's or a dependent spouse's spouse's dependency. So it gives the same result. Therefore, our position in the Danish People's Party is that we are ready to look at all the things covered by the set-off system for retirement pensions and early retirement. How can we ensure that we get rid of as many of the shortcomings in the system today as possible? It is not enough just to look at one piece of legislation. It may be that three or four different legislations need to be looked at. It could also be that the alternative should include it in a financial bill debate. I am not sure that the Danish People's Party will be invited to a financial bill debate, but perhaps the Alternative and Enhedslisten will, and probably also the SF and the Radicals. Then you could take it into a financial bill debate and see what you could remove there. Or you could do it in other debates if you could get to grips with something and say: we have to solve those problems now. Because it is unreasonable in today's Denmark to continue in this way. But I will give Mr. Torsten Gejl is right that it has become a muddled debate over the winter and spring here, and then it didn't make it any better that we got the corona crisis where everything was a little quiet. So my request is that we simply take that point by point and say: what does it cost if we remove, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter. It could also be the abolition of the income base as a result of any spouse or collector's income, early retirement and old-age pension. One could look at the cost of the individual items, and then say: we are starting to remove the set-off rules for retirement pensions and early retirement. After all, in the Danish People's Party, even when we negotiated the Financial Act for 2019, the base deduction was raised to 122,000 before any set-off was made. We would also like to go further in this direction and look at how much we can get rid of in a debate but there is no doubt that it is perhaps too much for the government to take it all at once. After all, it is a little money that needs to be raised. But when we look at the figures that are buzzing and there I will also give Mr. Torsten Gejl right we can see that we get many different numbers. One minute it was 34 billion. kr., and the second was 27 billion. kr., and then there was something down to 12 billion. kr., and various other figures that cannot be understood for the ordinary Dane. That is why we in the Danish People's Party say that we are ready to take the point by point and look at which of the foolish set-off rules are for old-age pensioners and early retirement pensioners we can have abolished. We are perfectly ready for that, and the sooner the better. We cannot then vote in favour of motion for a resolution B 34, because it is too extensive and muddled in this respect. However, this has been put forward in a good sense, and it has certainly helped to create a very large debate, and it will probably also be a major factor in getting us to take a step forward on how to remove many of the misunderstood and foolish set-off systems that exist in relation to retirement pensions and early retirement. But let's get to it when we get over the corona crisis. I do not think that much is going to happen on this side of the summer holiday, but then it must be an obvious issue when we come on the other side of the summer holiday, where we say: we must now tackle it in the context of the Finance Act or in the context of other negotiations, where we can say that we now have a point here that we must deal with in order to remove some of the foolish set-off that is coming. That must be the way we should go. This is at least the path that the Danish People's Party is ready to go in relation to removing as much of this as possible. I don't believe it can happen all at once. But point by point, we may be able to remove almost everything along the way. This is one of the points that will be important for the Danish People's Party in ensuring that both early retirement and old-age pensioners will feel safe in Danish society and will not feel neglected here, so they can see that there is something sensible in moving together too, so that they can live together without excessive set-off in their incomes. It is, and has always been, unreasonable that it should be immediately offset against the one's old-age pension or early retirement pension if the other has an income. We would like to help remove that if it is possible to obtain a majority for it. However, as I said, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. We'll vote yellow for it. We are not voting against it because there is as much good in what we would like to address in relation to getting rid of as much as possible of the ridiculous set-off in the system today in relation to early retirement and old-age pensioners. So let us get to grips with it as soon as possible and see what we can do with new initiatives. It may be that some resolutions from in here should be taken individually. It may also be that a great deal will come through in negotiations. Time will tell. Of course, I cannot say anything about what the government's support parties have planned to include in a financial law. But it's obvious to bring this into a financial bill debate. This was at least one of the things that the Danish People's Party would do if we were invited to a financial bill debate. But if it's like last year, when it was just a coffee meeting, you don't get much through. But we don't know what it looks like here when we get here in the fall. As it looks now, the Danish People's Party is ready to take these points individually after summer and ask: What can we get through here? How much money do we have to find to abolish the various points? We will take that point by point so that we can find a solution to the problems of pensioners and early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135155	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135158	Thanks for a good speech. And thank you for trying to clarify and clarify a proposal that is both complicated and has come messed up from the start. And also thank you for the rapporteur's constructive approach to perhaps trying to split it up and fund it along the way. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comments on some of our funding proposals, for example. This is because, if people move together to a greater extent, they might save some money on the loneliness budget, that is, on the costs derived from so much loneliness in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135238	Yes, but it is true that we would of course save some money. If there are two people living together, we save money on housing security, heating contributions and such things, because it should only be for one household instead of two. So there would be some savings; there is no doubt about that. So that's right, but it's a little hard to figure out how big the savings can be. We do not know anything about that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135306	Sir. Torsten Gejl? No. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135314	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Bent Bøgsted said in his rapporteur's speech, among other things, that he believes that it is unfair to have mutual and dependent spouses, and I agree with the rapporteur on that. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to clarify why it is that the Danish People's Party considers it unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135337	I don't remember saying it was unreasonable. I said that it was the same, i.e. that it gives the same result, regardless of whether you have mutual dependants, if you are married, or whether you are dependent on your spouse, if you are married. It gives the same result. Well, if there's a couple where one is on cash benefits and the other has a job, then cash benefits are set off. And if there is a couple where one is on cash benefits and the other has a job and you call it spouse dependency instead of mutual dependents, then cash benefits are also offset. So the importance for married couples of spouse dependency and mutual dependents I think is absolutely the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135421	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135423	It is actually an attempt to give the rapporteur an opportunity to explain the underlying political reasons why the rapporteur thinks it is unreasonable, as was the word used by the rapporteur, and not a technical review. It may be that the rapporteur will tell us now when Mr. Bent Bøgsted tells us that this is one of the things you have worked for in the Danish People's Party, that is to say to reduce spouse dependency. In addition, Mr. Bent Bøgsted also says that he will look at the shortcomings after the summer break and I just want to hear how and when after the summer break the rapporteur will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135503	If we take the last one first, I would say that our summer holiday usually ends on 1 August, because there Dansk Folkeparti starts its summer group meeting, and then we are back in business, so it is after the summer break for me. On the other hand, we have always said that the mutual dependents of the recipients of cash benefits and beneficiaries of integration benefit will not be involved in abolishing them, and we have always said so, and we have said so right from the start. On the other hand, we are ready to remove all that is left for early retirement and old-age pensioners, and that means that we will not be helping to eliminate mutual dependants for married couples, in other words, when there are two who are on cash benefits and who are dependent on each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135539	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526135551	Thank you very much to the 70,000 people who signed this citizens' proposal. It is good to have the necessary debate kicked off on how we spend the money best and how the rain best hits the areas where the soil is driest. I think it is obvious why unemployment benefit, sickness benefit, resource development benefit are independent of any partner's income, and in the same way I think it should be with early retirement, which is, after all, the replacement of wage income. Therefore, we should remove the partner income dependency of early retirementists. I can say that the SF is tabling a motion for a resolution precisely to remove this burden for those who end up in early retirement. It has been the SF's policy for years, but now we are putting forward a concrete resolution on it. Some of this has helped to make an already difficult discussion almost opaque, and one cannot, of course, with oneself, remove the concepts by saying that in future I will use mutually dependents on everything, and so it is a truth. In this way we cannot abolish concepts and abolish a reality, in other words by saying that in future, when we talk about it, it will cover everything, and it could, for example, cover everything. be the deductions in early retirement, it could be the spouse's income dependency that is for folk pensioners. We need to use the concepts so that we understand each other and there are mutual dependents for married cash benefits recipients. I also think, when we come to the pensioners, that today it is at a ridiculously low amount of only DKK 200,000 that we are starting to make deductions. On the other hand, in connection with the proposal before us, I would also like to say that a reply to me from 20 December last year showed that, although 170,000 pensioners receive higher benefits, 140,000 receive lower benefits. So how wise is it to vote for this kind of thing? Yes, it may be if you belong to the 170,000, but how will you explain it to the 140,000? This is the second part of the project under way by the SF, namely systematically and zealously to identify, through questions, what factors it is that are relevant to pensioners, so that we can look at the interaction between the housing allowance and the pension supplement and how much one works so that one can see what the total income will be for the pensioner. I can already say that our starting point is at least that the 200,000 are too low. But we really want it to be revealed so that we can see the overall impact on the pensioners, and we do not want to make such a panicky proposal in the Folketing, which will, moreover, reduce the benefit of 140,000 pensioners. But it is the two things that the SF is taking the initiative on, a concrete motion for a resolution that abolishes the spouse's dependency on early retirement, and a work to uncover how we can so accurately and soberly hit the people's pensioners who have the least, and give them something more, instead of just giving everyone more. After all, not all old people's pensions need to be increased. There are, in fact, pensioners who have very wealthy spouses and, if we had enough money, we could give the pensioners more, but I really think I would rather give them to the poor pensioners, and I would rather give more home help to the poor folk pensioners, instead of just raising the amount for everyone regardless of their financial circumstances. I would also like to say that there are deductions which I think are justified. It's cheaper for each one to live together than living alone, and there I actually think it's okay that there's a deduction that goes on an assessment of what one's cost of living is, which gets smaller for each one, when you're two for most at least, unless you're very unfortunately married and then it will for most people give a little more money. That's why I think it's okay to have a deduction. On the other hand, what I wonder about is one of the things we, among others, wonder about. will ask from SF's side why it is 15%. in the case of early retirement and 20% in the case of early retirement; for old-age pensioners. I cannot see why you have ended up with two different percentages, but it may be there is a good explanation, and we will find out. It is just to show that there are also deductions, which I actually think there are serious arguments for, for example, that roommates each have fewer expenses than those who live alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140022	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140026	Thank you for a constructive speech. It was nice music to hear that SF is developing on a motion for a resolution, or more maybe, which is about how we're gonna solve this. Because outside this floor there are a lot of people with a problem that they really want to solve, and that is why they have sent in the citizens' proposal. So I can at least say from the point of view of the alternative that we would very much like to participate in the work of tailoring a new motion for a resolution which puts the concepts in place and which has the cannon completely set aside and so on. So thank you for that. How about funding? Can the rapporteur also see that it can actually lead to a lot of dynamic, derived savings if we abolish mutual dependents or what we choose to call it around, or other types of income? Has the rapporteur thought about funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140118	As far as early retirement is concerned, one of the answers I have received shows that it will cost less than 300 million. kr. to abolish this dependency on your spouse. So there we are within a framework for which we can immediately find funding. I can follow Mr. Kevin's lead. Torsten Gejl's line of thought, but I think there was a little much going on the wife with the eggs in it when Mr. Torsten Gejl was on the platform, as if it was actually a good business to spend perhaps 12.5 billion. kr., which the overall proposal will cost. I think there are those dynamic effects, like Mr. Torsten Gejl points out, but I think Mr. Torsten Gejl was a little optimistic. I certainly do not have any calculations to show that it is quite accurate, but there will be positive dynamic effects. There will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140202	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140202-2	The Ministry of Finance calculates that the abolition of mutual dependents will mean 875 years' work in labour supply. That is something we are talking about a great deal at the moment, that is, the supply of labour. Does the rapporteur not think that this is actually a very big lump? The more I count on it, the more I think it might be possible to finance something similar to a quarter of the proposal to abolish it for pensioners and early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140230	That is true, and we have also been presented in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs with several examples of roommates who opt out of extra work because it simply goes so hard economically on the partner's performance. So it is certain that it will mean a greater incentive to take either a full-time or overtime job or maybe get a job at all to the extent that you can find a job. So the positive dynamic effect is there, but I think Mr. Torsten Gejl exaggerates it a little, but it's there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140302	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140304	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. After all, the conditions have been changed in the answer to the 460 million. kr. That is why 140,000 are being reduced in retirement. Therefore, I would like to hear Mr. Karsten Hønge, if he doesn't want to tell you a little about why the 140,000 are being put into retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140326	Mrs Victoria Velasquez can read that in her reply to question 49 of 20 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140335	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140337	The rapporteur has now used it in this Chamber today. Some people are watching TV, and the conditions have changed, so I just want to ask whether Mr. Karsten Hønge doesn't want to share it with people in the hall and with those who are watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140352	The answer I received on 20 December is 21⁄2 pages including several tables. It would not be physically possible for me to present it, but anyone can go to the Danish Parliament's website www.ft.dk, click on it and go in and read the answers; there you can see it. However, I am in doubt as to how much these assumptions have changed, because in relation to folk pensioners it is so that when you turn on one financial button, it throws effects of itself elsewhere, namely in housing allowances, in pension supplements etc. The Minister for Finance's reply shows that it is just 140 000 people who are being put down in service, but as I see it, I should not deny that it is perhaps 150,000 I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140424	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140447	Thank you. Why are we in the Enhedslisten against making one financially dependent on one's partner? We are because it is a fortuitous way of thinking about relationships. We are, because it creates an imbalance, that you are made financially dependent on someone else. If the other earns a lot, we should instead create progressive taxation. It is not progressive that the other is made dependent on his partner in this way. I know that it may now seem to have a long way to go that we are going to get something adopted in this area, but I think that we have actually moved some milestones. First of all, in addition to the debate we have had, we have got a lot to go on, including knowledge and information, and we can also say that we have become more keen on what we do not yet know and want to know. In one way or another, and it is almost most important in such social policy struggles as they are here, there has also been a cohesion, both physically for those who are demonstrating right now, but also mentally and digitally, a common ground has been found, and I think that is beautiful, and I think that is strong. And both to you in this Chamber and to those parties that also express a number of different handouts, but not least to those who are behind the citizens' proposal and have been focusing on this for a long time, I just want to say that I look forward to working on it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140619	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140620	After all, I just got down to my place to check that with the changed assumptions about my question. What are some changed assumptions? I have just checked it, and I do not see that there are any conditions that have changed, so will Mrs Victoria Velasquez reply to what the report is to the 140,000 people who are perhaps 150,000 pensioners who are being put down in service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140638	Thank you. My question to Mr. Karsten Hønge was actually sincere because I think it is technically difficult to see in relation to the assumptions that have been changed and the things that have been changed. That is why I asked about it, because we know that some changes have been made in this area. And since it was the rapporteur who had asked the good question, I thought that the rapporteur could clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140700	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140701	Then I would be very happy if Mrs Victoria Velasquez would now acknowledge that there has been no change in the conditions and that the question I was given was a trick question. There are no changes, I can see here. That's one. Secondly, is there any deduction that Mrs. Victoria Velasquez thinks is okay? For example, does Enhedslisten think it's okay that if you live together, you experience a reduction, or you won't in this way favour roommates over singles, if you don't have something to deduct if it's 10.15 or 20 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140733	I do not really think this is a trick question. In other words, when we dealt with another legislative proposal in this Chamber, namely the suspension of the 225-hour rule, I discovered something in the comments, tabled an amendment and wrote to the rapporteurs asking if they would not support that amendment because we had discovered something that did not live up to the things we wanted to change. I think that is good style and a good way to do it when you have an insight and a knowledge of some things you would like to have changed, and know that there are some others who could agree with it. That is why I just thought it would have been nice if the SF would have been involved in making an amendment. In relation to the second part of your question... unfortunately the President Time has passed. Sorry). Oh, okay. Then we'll take it after. President Yes, let us do that).
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140814	It's one more question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140819	Thank you. I just need to make sure that I understood Mrs. Victoria Velasquez correctly. It's not safe. Will the Enhedslisten take this as a requirement in the forthcoming financial negotiations and say: we need to get this through, we need to get rid of the mutual dependent? Is this something that Enhedslisten will take along as a key point and a requirement in the forthcoming financial law negotiations this autumn? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140848	Thank you for the question. We have not yet decided what these are requirements that we are taking to the financial law negotiations. But this is one of the things we're discussing. You can also see it in relation to the whole reopening and discussion of what we are doing in relation to the Corona crisis and the fact that the economic wise men have been out to say that it would boost the economy if some of those with the lowest incomes got some money and there has been the discussion about helicopter money, etc. etc. So this is one of the places that we're also looking at, i.e. if it can actually change some of those parts. This could also be something we could do temporarily during the corona crisis and see what it could have of significance. And then we could also get even more data to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140924	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526140926	Well, there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party believe that this set-off system should go away. We want to work to remove it. The unitary list will, of course, vote in favour of removing the dependents, but I now understand from the rapporteur that it will not be included in a debate on finance law. It's not that important. You will vote 'yes' here, perhaps because it is a free round to vote 'yes', but you will take it as a requirement for the forthcoming financial law negotiations. It is said that over the summer, you will see if there is anything you can do and when the Corona crisis is over, but you will not take it as a requirement in the forthcoming financial law negotiations. That's how I'm supposed to understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141004	No, what I said was that I am in a party where there are other Members as well, and I know that the rapporteur is also. There we have to agree on how to give priority to the various parts. There are several things in this proposal. After all, we would like to see things voted through. Some of you have said that you, for example. I would like to contribute to this for those who are on early retirement. So there are some things where we need to look at what is actually possible to get through. There we have to make the demands of the Finance Act, and there I hope that Mr. Bent Bøgsted will be ready for our press conference when we tell you about those parts. Another thing is that we don't wait until after the summer break. We are just looking at whether this is something we can do now in terms of getting the economy going after the corona crisis. I hope that the rapporteur will also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141045	To Mrs. Victoria Velasquez. There are no more questions. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141052	There is no doubt that the current system has failed. I also explained this at first reading. And if it were for New Citizens, we would tear down the whole house and start over. Because I cannot believe that there can be parties in the Folketing here in the year 2020 that would create a system as it is now, if you had to start over. I cannot believe that there are any parties that would create a system that makes it difficult, almost impossible for families to stay together or to get out and find a new boyfriend who would put up crazy obstacles financially and punish people for seeking love. I cannot imagine that there are any parties that would do so. And I am glad that parties today have indicated that they would like to look at these issues. We would really like that in New Citizens too. When we look at the specific motion for a resolution, several rapporteurs have explained that there are a large number of complications with regard to the way in which it is organised. Who deals with this, and what are the consequences? And I cannot imagine that the 70 000 people who have signed this have intended that poor pensioners should return to more wealthy pensioners. I cannot imagine that it has been the intention for 140 000 of the pensioners who have the least to return to the wealthier. I can't believe that. When I've talked to different people, it hasn't been the intention. But that is unfortunately, we have found out, the consequence if we vote through it as it is now, and of course we cannot participate in it in New Citizens. So that's why we're also voting yellow on this proposal. We agree with the intentions, we look forward to going in and looking at this and having a fight with this, but of course we cannot help taking from the poorest pensioners and giving to some others. So that's why we're voting yellow to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141308	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Have I understood correctly that the Minister for Employment wishes to speak? Yeah. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141322	Thank you very much for the floor, and also thank you for the very direct call from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl at the meeting of the Employment Committee on 27 February to speak at the second reading of B-34 on the total abolition of mutual dependents, as is called in the citizens' proposal. It is important for me to begin by stating that the government fully supports the very possibility of making and dealing with citizens' proposals in the Folketing. For my part, therefore, I would like to contribute to a good final debate on this citizens' proposal, not least when some have had the experience that the citizens' proposal was discussed on a false basis at first reading. That is also why I have met with the group behind the citizens' proposal and talked to several people who are concerned about the issue. This has given me a better understanding of the intentions, and it has confirmed that there is a great deal of democratic commitment to this issue, which I both recognise and have great respect for. Through Parliament's consideration of the motion for a resolution, I and the Minister for Finance, through answers to a number of questions and consultations on the subject, have had the opportunity to clarify the various doubts that arose. However, a more general question was asked about how we, the Folketing and the government, will in future deal with citizens' proposals when, like this proposal, it only resolves what exactly we want to achieve or if there is doubt as to what the intentions of the proposal are. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that in the future, in the process, we will seek to clarify what the purpose and scope of a proposal are if, as in this case, it is unclear, and I think that this confusion has also been shown to a very considerable extent in today's debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. With that in mind, I would like to return to the substance of the motion for a resolution on the removal of mutual dependents. I have taken note of the report by the Committee on Employment, including the fact that a majority has rejected the motion for a resolution and that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled four amendments which they have proposed for adoption. The Unity List and the Alternative stress that the abolition of the phasing-out of benefits in the pension system as a result of any partner's income will result in additional post-tax, reflow and behavior costs of just under 0.5 billion. kr. annual. 0.5 billion kr. a year is now also quite a lot of money that will require tough priorities, even at this time. First of all, of course, we in the government believe that some way should be given to indicate where that funding should come from, and secondly, I think that today's debate has also shown, among other things. with Karsten Hønge's reference to the question raised back in December, that exactly the proposal and the way it is arranged also have significant negative effects on a large number of old-age pensioners. Nevertheless, it is not the economy and priorities that concern me most on this issue. Therefore, the clarification of the motion for a resolution with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative's amendments does not alter the government's position. When it is not the economy that is the determining factor in this matter, it is because the proposal changes a guiding principle of our welfare system, namely that we target the benefits to those who have the least and need the most. The lower rates and the common income regulation help to ensure the appropriate and targeted use of tax-financed services and to maintain the welfare society we have today. This does not mean that I have no sympathy for the desire for higher benefits to be provided, as I believe it applies to a great many recipients of benefits, but for the socio-economic situation to run around and for us to be able to maintain the guiding principle of the welfare society that we have today, namely that there is reasonableness in targeting those who have the least, the government does not therefore support the resolution, just as I also note that a majority of the Folketing does not. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141730	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141734	Thank you, Minister, for taking the floor now, and also thank you for the thoughts on the clarification of citizens' proposals. I hope that will set a precedent. I believe that it will be a great help for the citizens if the ministries reach out in the same way as the Minister has done and ask how exactly that should be understood. I could not quite take the Minister's will and desire to address this forward-looking or at least parts of what has been said in the Chamber. Whatever the principles, it can be said that it is quite obvious that the removal of the interdependence and the variants we have talked about here will also create dynamic effects. Will the Minister perhaps help to remove parts of it if it nevertheless turns out that it could be financed by dynamic effects?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141831	At least in relation to the first part of Mr. Torsten Gejl's comment, I think, is very, very important. I think that this whole debate shows, on the one hand, the enormous commitment and potential of the citizens' proposal structure, but, on the other hand, I really do think that shows the many gaps and shortcomings that are also in this kind of method of citizen involvement. Because it has, of course, shown it at the conciliation meeting, and it has emerged in today's debate that enormous confusion has arisen as to what this proposal really is and what it is covering up. We are talking about the total abolition of mutual dependents. We have not been mutually dependent as far as pensioners are concerned, and in the debate, at least the part I have been tagged into on the social media, there have also been issues of early retirement, where it is a completely different kind of set-off that exists there, which has nothing to do with spouse dependency or mutual dependants. I just think it's important that we deal with this in some way in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141942	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526141944	Yes, I fully agree with that and very, very much, but we have to move on. We must, of course, go some way towards financing the dismantling of some of these variants of mutual dependents. Where does the Minister see the most interesting funding proposals, derived effects and dynamic effects that have been promoted in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142006	I think so, sir. Torsten Gejl points to some real things. For example, if all kinds of targeting of our services are completely abolished, a lot of red tape will certainly be saved. The question is, on the other hand, simply: do we believe that it is solidarity or appropriate to eliminate the kind of targeting that we have set up our welfare system? At least we are not convinced of that in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142037	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142040	Thank you, Minister. The Minister takes an active part in the Women's Day on 8 March and is also in favour of equality and of the fact that, as a woman, you must stand stronger in society and be more freed. Therefore, I would just like to hear the Minister's reflection on this: if you, as a woman, get pregnant and cannot work and therefore have maternity leave, you get income from the state, regardless of whether you are married to someone or you are not married to anyone etc. You get an income because you are pregnant and must have a child, but if you are ill and therefore cannot work, can there not be a problem in making you financially dependent on another person? We also see that for many women there is a battle against making them economically dependent on their husbands. Can the Minister not see that there is also an emancipation spectrum in getting a fight with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142137	Yes, but I also believe that our rules in the field of maternity have been drawn up for the historical reason that it is really a question of trying to eliminate as far as possible the differences between men and women biologically, in relation to their income, while you are barren and pregnant and so on, but also in relation to the loss that is later in working life. Our spouse dependency, among other things. When it comes to folk pensioners, it is just as much based on a principle of solidarity that when it is that we make benefits and a targeting of benefits • the supplements we give on top of it • the most of all must go to the household income that has the least available. Basically, I think that is a right principle. Can change be discussed? Can clarification be discussed? Yes, I have no doubt that you can, and that is also what I hear from a number of parliamentary parties that you want to do. I just think basically that it is a right principle that we try to target it as much as possible on the minimum family income.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142249	Thank you. Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142252	Thank you. But are there any things that the Minister will help to look at, so that we may be able to get things right in some places where the level is quite low? Because if you do so, the most powerful will, in proportion, get rid of the cheapest, you can say, and the solidarity is precisely that those who have the most will also contribute more. Could the Minister be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142319	We are always very happy to discuss good, constructive proposals from both the government's parliamentary basis, but for that matter also from the Danish People's Party, which we have further heard. Another thing I would just like to say is that, in my opinion, there is a sense of solidarity in the system we have today. For example, if you take a pensioner's family where one is on a retirement pension and the other still has a income for one reason or another, and that is even a very high income, then the spouse can only get the basic amount of the pension. She or he is then guaranteed the basic amount of the national pension, but that is what you get and you cannot get all the additional benefits we have made in order to achieve as much targeting as possible and as much solidarity as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142406	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked for the floor, we can proceed to the vote. Now we need to get the technicalities in order and open the door down there. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142425	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.'
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142832	The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 8 (EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 66 (S, V, RV, KF and LA), abstention 19 (DF, SF and NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142905	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526142912	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 11 (KF, NB and LA), against 82 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), we abstained from voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526143251	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526143256	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour 13 (DF, NB and LA), against 79 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and Sikandar Siddique (UFG), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526143612	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526143651	Thank you for that, President. It is true that a report has been submitted on this proposal, which is a citizen's proposal that the holiday money to be frozen should be paid out, and we discussed it before the corona crisis struck, and a great deal has happened in this respect. At that time, we in the Danish People's Party were prepared to support that the funds should be paid only when you retired. But a lot has happened during the corona crisis, and one is about to look at how to get the whole society kicked back into business. There is a big discussion about how to do it and whether to get extra money out for consumption, so the citizen has a little more money to help kick consumption off. Maybe there's something on the house that needs fixing. Maybe there's something you want to buy. How do you do it the best way? In this context, it is obvious to look at the funds to be frozen in a holiday fund for payment when you become a pensioner, and what the citizens' proposal is about is that they should be paid now. There have also been economists out saying that it is a good thing to look at how one could get them working already here to boost private consumption and get society going again. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we have also considered this strongly. What do we do now, and how and how can we do so now? We have also been out to say that we thought it was a good thing to get this money out into consumption here after the corona crisis to get private consumption started. We know that a great many of those who benefit from this money are, after all, unskilled, skilled, employed in private jobs, where you get 14-day pay. By far, the vast majority of the money is in the holiday fund and must be saved. Those who receive monthly pay are paid during the holiday, and then a small percentage goes into the holiday fund. So most of the people who have money to do here and have them frozen are those who are on regular hourly pay, 14-day pay, weekly pay, or whatever it is they get, and these are the ones who may not have so much extra to do well with, because during the corona crisis they still had the expense. There are also very many of them who have still been away in jobs. There are also many of those who work after retirement age and have been told that they cannot get that money paid out because they must be frozen even if they have reached retirement age. That is why there are a great many people who will benefit if they say that this money has to be paid out. I have been asked the question whether it is part of the holiday settlement. No, it's not. This money isn't part of the holiday settlement. It's extraordinary that you want to freeze this money. It is not something that has been agreed in a settlement. This is not something that came about in connection with amendments to the holiday law. On the basis of what happened in the European Union, the government found that twice holiday money should be paid in the same year. The argument for that was, of course, that it would undermine the economy of the employer if they had to pay twice holiday money in the same year. But you don't have to do that if you say to the employer: you don't have to pay them until the end of the year, and then the state lays out for a period of time. It may be that the state has to borrow a little extra money for these holiday funds, but then the state gets them back. The moment the employer pays the money, it goes to the state. Instead of entering a holiday fund, they enter the state economy. So maybe it's only six months for the state to put money in connection with this and borrow a little extra. It may just cost a little extra interest for a short period of time, but it is a good way to get money out to the employee for general consumption to pay out the money that should otherwise have been frozen in a holiday fund for payment when you once went on a folk pension. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party will of course encourage the government to start to find out how these funds can be paid out. The state gets the money back when the employer has to pay money into a holiday fund, and then the state has its money back. It is a very short-term loan, but the money is out for consumption that can generate revenue and that can bring new life to the private labour market. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have come to the point where we change our position, even though a report has been submitted. You can do that as long as there is no vote on it. So we have changed our position and say yes to the proposal so that we can get that money going in society for the benefit of ordinary consumption, for the benefit of the employee, for the benefit of all those who say: we can actually spend some extra money right here and now on top of the crisis we have been in. That is why the Danish People's Party says 'yes' to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144305	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's for mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144311	Thank you. I can tell the rapporteur that this motion for a resolution does not mean that the state should lay down money. It is a question of employers putting money out. So that means that if the Danish People's Party agrees to this motion for a resolution, as they do, then it is not correct? That's actually what it says. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144339	But that is also why I say that the state can go in and say: we make sure that the money is paid out. And in relation to the fact that it is employers who have to put money out, employers are supposed to pay them into a holiday fund after the year has passed. Employers must pay them into a holiday fund; they have that year to run and they must be paid into a holiday fund. Then what I am saying is that the proposal here from the Danish People's Party is that the state lays out the money in the first place, so when the employers normally have to pay the money into the holiday fund, they pay the money to the state instead, and then the state has its money covered. It may well be that there is a small expense in having to finance it for a shorter period; it does not do so much. But the employers get rid of the money no matter what, at the end of the year. I am not saying that employers have to pay the money now and here, but they have to pay it out at the end of the year and the state is putting the money out here and now. You can easily figure out how to solve that problem if the will is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144438	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144439	Well, that is interesting, because the Danish People's Party has not tabled any amendments. We are voting in favour of the employer putting this out, otherwise we should have tabled an amendment. So all the nonsense I hear from the platform doesn't matter at all. Then you should come up with an amendment. Now it is written in the holiday law, that is to say the settlement, that we are agreed on a holiday, and it is they who are involved, including the Danish People's Party, a responsible transitional period with a focus on the worker's holiday pattern and the employer's liquidity. Does the Danish People's Party believe that employers have no problem at all if they are going to find out this year yes, there are many figures • 75-100 billion. kr. extra if you vote for this proposal? Doesn't the Danish People's Party think it's a problem at all? And if the Danish People's Party considers this to be a problem, then it is in this way going against conciliation by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144528	Well, that's because the will of the Social Democrats is not here. It is simply not present in the Social Democratic Party to say: we think it is a good thing to get this money out to work. There are so many economists who say that there is a need for more money out working among the citizens. But the Social Democratic Party says that directly. Leif Lahn Jensen that this simply cannot be done and that we should not get the money out. I say, let's get on with this arrangement. We are voting in favour of the proposal, but we are also saying that we must ensure that funding is made which does not affect employers but where employees can get their money. And then the state can put the money out during that period until the employers have to pay the money in the normal way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144609	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we now have to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144619	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 20 (DF, EL, NB, LA and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 65 (S, V, RV, KF and ALT), abstentions 9 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526144945	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate here is closed. This brings the proposal directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145020	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145100	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 to 5, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA and SIU)? That is not the case, and that is why they have been adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 6 and 7 of a minority (RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)) rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of IA and SIU)? We do not want to vote on it, and that is why it has been adopted. I therefore propose that the draft law proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145152	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145201	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, RV, EL and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), which was rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145313	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145323	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-12, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145432	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145440	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The vote will then be taken on the proposal mentioned under A [Proposal for a law amending the Share Savings Account Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145533	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145625	The debate is now open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Annette Lind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526145636	Thank you for that, President. B 159 and B 160 relate to two military contributions, and they must be co-ordinated, although these are two very different contributions. The first, B 159, is about Denmark's taking over the leadership of the NATO mission in Iraq. It is the case that the situation in Iraq is somewhat complex; it has worsened both by corona, but also by international and regional tensions. There has been a lot of instability in the country. It is the case that there have been great demonstrations and riots, and one has long been without a government. Fortunately, a government has been created now, but the situation in Iraq is still complex and dynamic. For the most part, Iraq's threat level in relation to terrorism and certain militias is assessed to be high. Locally, the security situation can change very quickly, and the reason why we as Danes are in Iraq is, of course, that we are fighting ISIL, the Islamic State, and the other militias of the levant. It is the case that ISIL has been weakened and weakened, but still has roofs in the area, and that is why we as Danes still need to be present. We've been in Iraq since 2014. At this point, we are sending the last soldiers back from the Al Asad camp, where soldiers have been trained. What we're gonna do with this contribution is we're gonna train the coaches. We need to train at a higher level in Baghdad, and we need to train advisors to the Iraqi Ministry of Defence, and we need to support training in Iraqi institutions so that better and more sustained reforms of the country can be made. I would like to mention what we are contributing to, because then most rapporteurs are free to say just that. What we need to do is to contribute with a head of force to lead the NMI, that is to say NATO's mission in Iraq, with associated staff contributions consisting of up to approx. Forty people. Next, we need a security and escort contribution consisting of up to approx. 100 people, and their task will be to escort personnel to the operating area. We need a helicopter contribution consisting of up to three EH 101 transport helicopters, and it must be for 12 months from 1 May 2021, where we also need personnel with up to approx. Eighty-five people. And then we need a liaison officer's contribution of up to 5 people to relevant headquarters. There are currently negotiations in NATO on how to extend the NMI, and there is dialogue on this, and this may of course mean that more of the coalition's current tasks will be changed. However, as I said, there is a dialogue with the Americans on this, and that is why we are calling for the number of staff we send to Iraq to be increased if the mission is extended. And so it is also the case that in this kind of mission there will always be cyber capabilities in the Danish effort. There has been that in the past, and there will be in the future too. Denmark contributes to peace and stability in the region, as in many of the world's other hotspots, and we are doing very well. I would like to use the opportunity here on the platform to praise our soldiers both those who have left and those who are now leaving Iraq for their great, great efforts, but I also want us to give the new soldiers a mandate from here, which I hope will be very wide, so that we can send them down with a great ballast in our backs. We will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal, and it is the case that we naturally expect many other parties to agree to this proposal as well. In fact, we know that many others will also be involved. The next proposal, B 160, on which we have to take a position, is a little less controversial in relation to the level of threat level in Iraq is higher and is about maritime surveillance mission in the Strait of Hormuz. It is the case that the situation of the narrow strait between the Persian Gulf and the Arab Sea over the ages has often been aggravated. In the spring of 2019 it was so tapered that commercial ships were exposed to explosives. Therefore, some frigates were sent down there, and it was France and the Netherlands that sent frigates. We have offered to make a contribution. It's a frigate contribution from the Iver Huitfeldt class. I would also like to say here what contribution we are going to make quite specifically; other rapporteurs may not have to say so. As I have said, it is a frigate contribution of the Iver Huitfeldt class and a Seahawkhelikhelikopter and a maritime bet unit. The contribution will have a total crew of up to 170 people, including mine divers, military police and maritime special forces. The contribution is planned for a period of 4 months including sailing, and this will be around August 2020. It is the case that Denmark is the world's fifth largest maritime nation, so we have a great interest in contributing to free and safe navigation through the Strait of Hormuz. It is the case that we are going to replace the Dutch, who have replaced the Italians, and then we will make our contribution accordingly. We have offered it ourselves in London a few years ago, and it is also something that is being welcomed. In the light of the security situation, as I said, France took this initiative for the mission and it aims to protect freedom of navigation and ensure coordination between the parties in the area and contribute to descaling through presence on both sides of the strait. The mission here is called EMASOH, and it also has a diplomatic track under the leadership of a special representative for maritime safety whose overall objective is to contribute to dialogue between actors in the region and contribute to descaling. So we're making a very sensible contribution here in the form of this frigate. We in the Social Democratic Party are also voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150333	Thank you very much. One of the things that worries me very much is that Denmark is also about to take over the leadership of this NATO operation in Iraq, is that we can see that, particularly over the last year, there have actually been some really great peaceful demonstrations in Iraq, where people have protested for a political change in the country, and where the security forces that Denmark will also be involved in training have hit them hard. In fact, we know that the security forces are linked to both violence and the killing of peaceful demonstrators. And I think that is something we should question much more before we go in and actually actively support the training of those forces. I would like to hear what the Social Democrats have to say about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150421	We know the Danish principles. We also know the Danish values. And one of the values is that you can just gather in freedom, and you can gather in assemblies. It is, of course, a value that we will also bring to Iraq. There can be no doubt about that at all. When we take over management down there, of course we take over management. And so maybe there are some changes you can make to this. For Danish values such as freedom of assembly belong to believers wherever we are in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150450	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150452	Thank you. But the problem is that it has been said for many years, that is to say that you want to try to change culture, but that has not happened. We can see these attacks are still happening. And I have a fundamental concern that Danish soldiers will also be involved in training these security forces, who will then commit very violent acts of violence against peaceful demonstrators, who will have to bear exactly the development that they would like to see in Iraq. What will the Social Democrats do to ensure that it does not happen, so that it is not exactly what they are going to send people out to here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150528	What we're getting at now is coaching. And what we're getting at now is a higher diplomatic trail. So what we must train them in is to make longer and more sustained reforms of their country. And it is clear that when we have Danish values as freedom of assembly, we will never be able to allow freedom of assembly there. We have heard the ministers say that they also support the demonstrations. I know the rapporteur has also heard the ministers say that internally. So it is the case that we will also carry the values we have now with us to Iraq. And I'm quite sure that the management who will be in charge of this mission will also take it with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150612	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150626	Thank you for that, President. Today we are the first to deal with B 159 and B 160, which are about sending a Danish military contribution to NATO's mission in Iraq and about sending a Danish military contribution to the European-led maritime mission in the Strait of Hormuz. NATO and the Iraqi military have been successful in the fight against ISIL, but the fight is not over. Unfortunately, we are seeing ISIL coming forward again, and that is why we need the West to strengthen its military involvement in the region. The Islamic State was and is a reign of terror, and although the Islamic State has been defeated, we still have problems with ISIL, a terrorist organisation that is spreading death and destruction and fear wherever it comes. ISIL contrasts with everything we love. ISIL stands in the way of peaceful development towards democracy and stability in the Middle East, and that is why the terrorist organisation must be combated, including by tough means. The Left, of course, supports this proposal. We believe it is important to send a strong signal to the Iraqi Government and our coalition partners that Denmark supports and engages in the fight against the terrorist organisation ISIL, and that is why we are sending 300 men. We are also discussing B 160, which is about a maritime contribution to the Strait of Hormuz, which is a focal point in international trade. The strait is important for the whole Middle East and therefore for the stability of the region. This is a monitoring mission in which we send up to 195 people to a European-led mission. After all, Denmark is a trading nation, and much of our wealth is based on shipping. We are, in fact, the fifth largest maritime nation in the world, which is why we have both an obligation and an interest in safeguarding the right to free navigation. The safety situation around the Strait of Hormuz has deteriorated in recent years, and we are therefore at risk of being shut down for free navigation. We and many other countries cannot accept this, and that is why we need to take part in this mission too. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150843	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150847	One of the foundations here is, of course, like the assumption that there should be no free passage through the Strait of Hormuz, but in fact it is very, very few episodes that have been that cause problems. Basically, I would like to hear the Minister's apologies, the rapporteur: is there not, as a starting point, free passage in the Strait of Hormuz?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150917	I congratulate the rapporteur on his appointment! Nevertheless, it is the rapporteur for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526150922	Thank you. I hope that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten will also send a paycheck when I get an appointment but I can also settle for the title! This is a very relevant question put by the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten here. For the most part, there is a free and peaceful passage in the Strait of Hormuz, but there are unfortunately examples that this has not been the case. I am sure that the questioner shares the ambition of peaceful coexistence, which is important for the countries of the Middle East, and therefore also requires respect for the possibility of sending goods back and forth in international waters. For that is also what creates jobs, that is what creates growth, and that is why it is what creates a basis for families in the area. So we therefore need to ensure free navigation, and that is why we have chosen to back the European-led mission, which is led by France, precisely to ensure that this is done in peace and harmony, and that it is possible to have freedom in the area to gain growth and prosperity, and to have a basis for the individual family. These things are connected, and that's why it's important to send a contribution to this mission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151031	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151034	However, does the rapporteur not think that there is a very great risk that sending a warship into the area will actually help to escalate a situation that is already extremely tense? In fact, we have also heard from some of the countries in the region that you are exactly and that is my concern. What is the rapporteur's position if, in fact, this contribution helps to make the situation much worse and more tense?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151058	I believe that this contribution is a prerequisite for achieving low tension in the region; it is a prerequisite for ensuring that international rules are observed so that the big ones do not become smaller and that things happen after a common ambition to have that peace and freedom to ensure that there is growth and employment, and thus settlement and wealth to the area. I do not think it helps to stay away and look the other way, because then it is just the way we see sometimes today that things escalate in such a way that some suffer and thereby worsen the state of things. We are sending this contribution to help ensure that international rules and laws are respected, and that must be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151144	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151153	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that if we could avoid this, it would, of course, always be best not to have soldiers sent out into conflict areas, but that requires, of course, that there be no conflicts. Unfortunately, there has been this for a very long time down in the Middle East, which is why we must, of course, be ready to take responsibility in Denmark as well. We have cooperation with NATO in Iraq, where Denmark is taking over a NATO-based mission down in Iraq, the NMI, which is that we must provide aid to Iraq so that they can build their own forces to cope with security. This, of course, requires that we have some soldiers down there, and that is what we get with the proposals that lie here. We are, of course, in favour of supporting, and Denmark is one of the largest contributors to strengthening security in the Middle East in this regard. When we look at the action that is down there, we also have to recognise that there is a certain risk of terrorism. There is a risk from Shi'ite terrorist organisations and there is ISIL and what they are called down there; there are many different factions that can pose a certain risk to general security and the population down there as such. Denmark must then help to strengthen Iraq's army so that they can take over everything at some point. We hope and believe, of course, that at some point we can say that now it is not necessary for Denmark to have forces down there anymore and that now they can take care of themselves. And I don't think anyone at home expects or believes it's forever. I think that the Foreign Minister also expects it to end at some point when we have come so far that they can take care of themselves, so that we can say that we no longer need to have Danish forces down there. But until then, we in Denmark are ready to help, and the Danish People's Party also thinks it is reasonable that we help with security. This applies both in Iraq, where they go down around Baghdad and help with the safety and training of Iraqi forces, but also in the Strait of Hormuz, where a ship is being sent down. And yes, there should be free passage. The very best thing in the world would be that no one was making terrorist attacks, that no one was making any attacks on any ships, but unfortunately we have seen that there have been several times. That is why we are sending a frigate there along with other European countries, because we are a seafaring nation - the fifth largest in the world - and we have many ships coming in that area. We need to be ready to give a helping hand in order for them to feel safer and safe when sailing in the Strait of Hormuz. We know that this is one of the most busy waters in the world, but it is also one of the risky areas, and we must also be ready to deal with this, and we must give the Danish seamen the security we can now provide by being down there. The Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151541	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526151556	As the rapporteurs before me have explained, these are two motions for resolutions, two Danish contributions to a complex and difficult region. I must not hide the fact that for the Radical Left it is never an easy decision to send military contributions into the world, because we have so many sad examples that the contributions have not gone as we wanted, and sometimes even made worse. However, we both support these broadcasts, and we do so because Denmark also has to take responsibility in the difficult situation, and we do so because there are a number of prerequisites that we, in turn, attach decisive importance to, in the two contributions. When it comes to the contribution to the Strait of Hormuz, which is, after all, a frigate, we believe that it sends out a very important message of foreign policy that Europe is taking an initiative here independently for peaceful surveillance of the straits, thereby also laying down a dividing line between American Iran policy and European Iran policy, which, as everyone knows, is different in these years. The Americans have a more aggressive line of sanctions and have left the nuclear agreement that was concluded with Iran, which I and the Radical Left find very, very sad and very sad, because we are convinced that it benefits the hawks in Tehran, whereas the Europeans and the European Union are trying to hold onto a negotiating line and try to get back to the nuclear agreement that gives us a hand in what is going on in Iran and also gives more air to the progressive forces, the pigeons in Tehran. That is why we think that it is an important signal that Denmark is contributing to and supporting, if we can say whether the European line, which is currently being spoken most clearly by France, but which, fortunately, very many countries in Europe are backing it up. With regard to the second contribution, which is, of course, the greatest: to take over the entire leadership of NATO's training mission in Iraq, it is vital for us that the prerequisite for not just being able to hold hands with ISIL and the terrorist groups that are constantly popping up around Iraq, but also for continuing with the stabilising and humanitarian efforts inside Iraq, is that we can help to make Iraq safer for the Iraqis. Throughout the process, even when I myself was Minister for Foreign Affairs and decided that we should join the coalition against ISIL, we have stressed that there was not only a military track but also an economic track, a stabilisation track, an IT track and so on. etc. This remains a vital prerequisite for our support for the military initiatives we are contributing to. Unfortunately, it remains our opinion that we need to contribute to the Iraqi Government by training their own soldiers not only in military warfare, but also in the laws of war and in how not to use torture etc. etc. The training missions have many purposes and they are still absolutely necessary, even if the gods must know that chaos is often found in the country where the Iranian militias, who are probably more under the control of Tehran than of Baghdad, still pose not only a security risk, but also a political risk, because they destabilise the situation and still commit attacks on Sunni groups around the country. One might choose to have the view that Denmark should therefore not engage in Iraq at all, but I find it difficult to see that it would solve something or benefit something if the Western forces left Iraq tomorrow and left the whole country to the very same Iranian militias under the total chaos that would prevail. Therefore, we can also support the Danish contribution to the training mission, as we will keep a close eye on the fact that the other tracks in our efforts are taken seriously and are lifted as much as they deserve. I also hope that the Foreign Minister will agree with me on this is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152023	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152028	Well, thank you. I am really sorry that Radicals have chosen to support both of these proposals, because I think that there are some fundamental human rights problems with regard to the Iraq mission and I think that there is a very high risk of escalation in relation to Iran. And what I would like to ask the rapporteur is quite specifically this: there is now a great deal of emphasis on saying that it is a European mission in the Strait of Hormuz. And yes, it is true that I fully agree that it is much better for it to be European than for it to be completely united with the United States. But is it not quite true that when we look at the proposal, it is still black and white that there will be close, close cooperation with the Americans; that one will be obliged, for example, to: to come to their aid? Imagine that Iran and the United States are going into a direct military confrontation there where is Denmark in that situation? In fact, we do not contribute peacefully here, I think. I fully agree with the political effort that is necessary, but here I have a concern that you will actually be very close to the Americans militarily, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152130	I understand the schism that Mrs Eva Flyvholm is running here. As I see it, the resolution and all the efforts reflect the very difficult reality that we have, namely that our closest military allies in general in NATO and worldwide, namely the United States, have a much different approach to this issue than we do. And this is not an easy situation for anyone, but for that very reason I am actually very pleased that Europe is manifesting, both with the United States, but also with Iran, that we have our own policy, and it is not, of course, to follow Iran in a thick and thin way, and that is why we are doing this, but it is not to follow the United States in a thick and thin way on this issue either. And it is going to be so uncomfortable that I would like to admit that, but vice versa, it can be said that if we did not give France support for this initiative at this time, what signal would that be sent to the United States and Iran respectively? I would really like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152234	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152237	I'd like to answer that. I think, for example, that it would be much more sensible for us to be completely united with France and Germany in the efforts that are being made both to put political pressure on the United States to rejoin the agreement and to put political pressure on Iran to join INSTEX and all sorts of other things. We're making some good political agreements at the moment, which are like trying to stabilize, but I find it hard to see how it plays a very, very positive and downgraded role when you put on a warship in that area. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what does it look like if we are actually in this situation? In other words, is it acceptable that we should come to the aid of the Americans if the United States and Iran are going to be in an open war action? That is how I read the motion for a resolution, and I would like to know how the rapporteur sees it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152323	Now I think that there is a very, very small probability that it will come to an open confrontation fortunately in the Strait of Hormuz. But you can also ask the second question and say that if an American warship is finally attacked, it is also a little difficult to sit and look at it like if we are attacked, I hope that our allies will help us. That is not why we are there; it is not the mandate that we give our ships, nor is it the mandate that the Americans give theirs. It can be said that when we have to manifest something here at all, it is because there have been some abuses on the part of Iran, where one can say that if we did not manifest anything at all but allowed it to happen implicitly, then we accepted those abuses, and that is why we have to find a balance here, and I think that balance has been found, so that the frigate should not escort ships or in any way be confrontatory, but merely monitor the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152418	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152429	Actually, I feel a little bit like Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. In SF we also think we have a string of less successful contributions behind us, and that gives rise to a lot of worries when you have to send something out into the world. In fact, however, I think these two missions are very important, and I do, because one of the major mistakes that have occurred since the Iraq War is that we have left a power vacuum where there is a great breeding ground for Islamist militias and terrorist movements, and that is exactly what they do not need in this region, which simply lacks so much stability and quiet to rebuild itself. That is why I feel exactly like the Radical Left, namely that it makes no sense to pull us out, and we simply have to do what we are really good at in this situation, and that is exactly what we are proposing with some of these motions for resolutions. If we start with the contribution to NATO's efforts in Iraq, it is, as I see it, first and foremost a question of preparing Iraq to deal with its own security problems. We need to train military training personnel and officers; we need to help with the implementation of the security sector reform. These are things that are really positive and that we can actually contribute to. I believe that in the long term this will be of great benefit to the region, a region which is really plagued and which needs to be stabilized. And we are doing this precisely by putting in a strong regional power, together with NATO and the United Nations, to keep this development down. I think that is important, regardless of all the dilemmas in this. Now I have listened to the debate and I fully agree with many of the concerns that come up, but when you sum it up, I really think this makes sense. The same is true when we talk about the Hormuz Strait. I do not want to repeat all those words that we are the fifth largest maritime nation and something like that is fine, but what I think is really important here is that it is a European-led mission which, in a way, is a complement to the Americans, but which is European-led, and that diplomacy with regard to Iran and the nuclear agreement does not go completely, I think is really important. That's why I think this makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152720	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152723	Thank you. I am a little surprised to hear the way in which the rapporteur presents the training mission in Iraq at least. It's not a stabilisation mission. There are all sorts of other stabilisation initiatives down there, but this is about Denmark being led by NATO's training mission in relation to the Iraqi forces. It seems to me that the problem with the Iraqi security forces right now is that they cannot find a way of respecting human rights, there are still massive problems of torture in prisons, they have often been associated with the killing of peaceful demonstrators, and, incidentally, there are also a large number of the Shia militias supported here, who are very, very closely involved in the Iraqi security forces. So it's a very, very problematic context you go into in this way. You keep saying: okay, okay, okay, we'd like to send our military support. How, then, are we to achieve a more peaceful and democratic development in Iraq? Actually, I find that very difficult to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152830	What is it that Enhedslisten's rapporteur imagines will happen if you do not? Isn't that exactly why we need someone to be in charge of this training and training? That is probably precisely for the reasons that Enhedslisten's rapporteur lists. I fully acknowledge the dilemmas, but that is the way I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152849	It may also be that I am too strained by the fact that I have been following the Iraq war since it started, and I think that what we have heard all the way through has been: we want to help create a better situation; we want to bring about some political change. It just didn't happen. Massive amounts of military support have been pumped into that country, but never made any proper demands on the political changes necessary for there to actually be a stable peace. That's what worries me most. We need to do more of what is right and less of what is wrong, and unfortunately I see this as another part of what is wrong and actually is not helping people in Iraq. It would have been my hope that we could be a little more united on that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152934	I understand that, but I still wonder a little what Enhedslisten's rapporteur imagines will happen if we do not. That's what, when the math is done up, worries me the most, and that's why SF backs up on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152950	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526152955	Thank you so much. In fact, I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent speech. But I would also like to praise SF for the journey they have been making. I very much agree with the rapporteur. If you want things to turn for the better, you have to make an effort. That is why we are sending out a training contribution, it is to train and help ensure that a country can help to maintain internal security, and this must, of course, be done in accordance with the laws of war and respect for human rights. But the fact that we are sending a contribution to the Strait of Hormuz is also that we are being forced as a small country to stand firm on the rules and laws of the international community, otherwise the big nations will overturn the small ones. I think that, in relation to the rapporteur's vocabulary, is called solidarity. Nice speech from the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153050	Well, thank you. Now we're saving this little praising conversation until the next time SF won't support some war contribution, I think, and we'll remember it. But thank you to the rapporteur of the Left; I am glad that he seems somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153107	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153109	Well, let's talk straight out of the bag, that's what we feel best about in the Left. I did not say anything to congratulate the rapporteur. I said something because I agreed with the rapporteur's interpretation, and the rapporteur's interpretation was not that this was a war contribution. It was an investment in our common future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153127	Yes, but we are in complete agreement with that, but that is why you can store such a little commendation in the back of your head for the next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153136	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526153150	Thank you for the floor. In relation to these two missions we are discussing today, I can say that the Enhedslisten cannot support either of the proposals. In relation to the operation in Hormuzstrædet, the problem is indeed, I think, that we choose to send a Danish warship down to a situation that is already extremely tense. I am fully aware that what is happening now is insanely complex. But we have to say that we are still standing in the loop where we can see that Iran and the United States have a deep, deep conflict, and that has not improved, unfortunately. This is a situation in which the United States has terminated the nuclear disarmament agreement, which was so important to all of us, and you can just see the military tension just as increasing. If, as it is now, we go in and send a Danish warship down to the Strait of Hormuz, I believe we are also involved in that armament. Several rapporteurs have pointed out that it is better that it is European than that it is American. I very much agree with that, I would say, certainly. It is better that this is a European initiative. However, we are still left with a situation where military capabilities are enormously interwoven. It is still clear from this motion for a resolution that there will be very, very close cooperation with the Americans and that we will probably also be, and that is some of what I would also like to ask the Minister about later on being obliged to come to the aid of the Americans if we are in a situation where the United States is actually attacking Iran. And that is at least one of the things I think we must have a little clear lines over. I am very concerned that this will be seen as an escalation, and it is a super dangerous strategy in the current situation, where everything is very, very fragile. And, in particular, I think it is inappropriate to do so when we actually have some sensible political alternatives to this. After all, we have a very good political cooperation with both France and Germany on some of the political changes that are needed to try to relax the situation. I should also like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the fact that a great deal of this work is progressing very well, I think, and is extremely important. And that's where we've got the right line. But right with this emissary of this frigate, I find it very difficult to see that we're choosing the right thing. And that is also because I think it is difficult to see the very real need for it. I have asked the Foreign Minister a question in the past about whether or not there is a free passage in the Strait of Hormuz. And it is precisely confirmed that yes, it is there, and the Defence Intelligence Service does not in fact consider that there is a threat to Danish civilian vessels in the area. So this could very, very well risk creating a greater threat, including for Danish shipping in the area, because we are helping to relax the situation. So I have to admit that I do not think it is a wise proposal from the Danish side, although I can easily see the nuances of it and that you are not quite over on Trump's team, and I am incredibly happy about that. But I still think there's too much risk in this. I think it is insanely important that we have ice in our stomachs in the current situation and from the Danish side plays the best possible role in ensuring that this gets escalated. Whatever one thinks of the situation, it is clear that it is in the interests of all of us that we should not have an open military confrontation, and it is absolutely essential that we do what we can to achieve that objective. Then there is the question of Iraq. In other words, a Danish leadership of the NATO operation in Iraq is a very big step, and I think we are entering a very, very dangerous minefield by some actors who, unfortunately, are not working entirely on the basis of the same values that I think we should work on and, unfortunately, do not come to, I think, bring a more peaceful and stable situation in Iraq. Basically, in relation to the training of the Iraqi security forces, I am pleased that many people are saying that we must link this with human rights education and so on. However, we have been training Iraqi security forces for many years, and it has not changed the fact that these huge human rights problems still remain. We have seen massive, democratic, popular, peaceful demonstrations in Iraq over the past year, more before corona, of course, but in that period that has been insanely important. And what the security forces have contributed in this context is simply violent to strike down these peaceful demonstrators; help arrest them, kill them, beat them up. That's the kind of thing we've seen. I don't think that's what we should be educating people for. There is also the huge problem of the increasing importance of these Iran-supported Shia militias. And they are also an integral part of the security forces. They are also being trained through this. This is a very, very difficult situation, but I do not think that we are doing the right thing by going in and providing support which, unfortunately, will be very much in support of developments that are otherwise seen, in the security forces and politically in Iraq. I believe that it would be beneficial to make more firm demands for us to see the changes before we can support militarily, because we are going to support the wrong things. And that is really critical, because the situation in Iraq is really difficult for the people of Iraq. It's still extremely unstable. There are very many people who live with violence and war very close. One of the things that is most problematic is these deep, deep tensions between different groups of people, and that has just not been addressed. In other words, there has been no provision for guaranteeing the more fundamental democratic rights of the various sections of the population. It is almost 20 years since people went to war in Iraq with the mantra that there should now be some change and, unfortunately, we do not see that the years of war have brought with them. And that's why I'm also calling for us to start doing things differently. Unfortunately, this is just a continuation of the way you've done it. There is also a question, I think, about the nearest ally in NATO, who will still be the United States. I think we have seen that Trump has been extremely erratic in its dealings with Iraq. In other words, it is no more than six months since we saw the United States assassinating an Iranian general on Iraqi soil, something which, regardless of the fact that he was certainly a very unpleasant type, has contributed to extreme tension and problems. The Americans did not even notify us of this; it is something you just go out and do. I think that, in relation to the so-called allies here, we are in a very, very difficult position. I would therefore call for us not to use these funds, but instead to focus on how we can contribute with the more peaceful and humanitarian efforts that can actually be used for some of the people on earth and can help build up. And we will be very good at seeing how we can support the very many peaceful and democratic demonstrators right now who want to see a political change in Iraq that is very, very important. How can we support them in the very best way and ensure that they are actually protected in terms of continuing their protests and helping to drive the political change without risking being killed or imprisoned? That is something that will be felt, I think, for the future in Iraq. I believe that, basically, we have a very great obligation to contribute to this more peaceful development, because there is so much history and because the people have already suffered as much as they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154026	Thank you very much, President. But above all, of course, we support these missions by the Conservative People's Party. There is no doubt that one of the reasons why Denmark has been elected by NATO to have been asked whether we want to lead this international training mission has been the huge contributions that Denmark has made in the world. And there is no doubt that it is largely because of our Danish heroes and their professionalism in the world that we stand where we stand today and are ready to support the safety and security of those people in Iraq. We also got a picture from the Defence Intelligence Service last night of a relatively high threat in the region, and I have to say that in view of this, we think it is absolutely right to send Danish soldiers down there and control it here with our democratic values and our Danish values. In relation to our contribution to the European-led maritime mission in the Strait of Hormuz, it is important to protect the right to free navigation and strengthen the security of the area. After all, the many incidents and disturbances that have taken place in the Straits of Hormuz recently create an uncertain situation for merchant ships and their crews. And with a place between 150 and 170 Danish-operated ships through the strait every month, the passage has a great strategic significance for both Danish and international shipping. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154214	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154225	Thank you. We are discussing two motions for resolutions today. The first is B 159 on the posting of Danish troops in Iraq. New Citizens will put Denmark first and ensure Denmark's safety and interests. Therefore, it must have a clear and direct meaning for Denmark when we send Danish soldiers abroad. Denmark supported the war, which deposed Saddam Hussein. Therefore, one can argue that Denmark has a special responsibility in relation to Iraq. But the war began in 2003; it was 17 years ago. How long should Denmark be obliged to Iraq? Are we going to be there in 17 years, too, in 2037? And does Denmark's efforts really contribute to long-term stability and peace in this Muslim area? According to the FE, for many years to come Iraq will be an arena for regional and international power struggles. Stability and security in Iraq, even after many years of Western military and humanitarian aid, have not been achieved. The NATO coalition is therefore at risk of playing a hopeless central role in the transition process for decades in order to achieve this. There is a risk that the Danish soldiers will be attacked by ISIL, Iraqi militias or criminal gangs. It was only a few months ago that the base, where the Danish soldiers are staying, was attacked. I fear that Danish soldiers and Denmark, with this parliamentary decision, will be caught as a party to an idle war in Iraq with the loss of Danish soldiers as a result. New citizens cannot therefore support B 159. Concerning B 160 on the Strait of Hormuz: With 150-170 Danish-operated ships through the Strait of Hormuz each month, the passage is of great strategic importance for both Danish and international shipping. The many incidents and disturbances in the Strait of Hormuz in recent times create great uncertainty for Danish merchant ships and their crews. It is important to ensure that Danish ships can move freely. It is an important part of international law and law. We must ensure that our Danish ships can sail unhindered without risk of their safety. In New Citizens we therefore welcome a resolution on a Danish contribution to the Strait of Hormuz. It is essential to keep a close eye on traffic in the area. Our merchant fleet must be able to make safe use of this important trade route. As a major maritime nation, we must be aware of our responsibility, and with the contribution Denmark sends a clear signal. We attach great importance to the safety of seafarers and the right of merchant ships to safe passage. That is why new citizens can support motion for a resolution B 160.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154527	Thank you for the floor. After all, the Western world began to lose influence in the Middle East in 1979 or there; the process began before that. So the latest turn to what is seriously worse has been going on for over 40 years. And one of the most dramatic chapters in this sad story of how the West lost its influence in the Middle East is the invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the removal of Saddam Hussein. It ended up contributing to the power vacuum which, together with the civil war in Syria, physically made there a space where the Islamic State could arise. But politically it also created a growth environment for the anger of the Sunni, who was and is the driving force of the Islamic State. And the only long-term winner in all this was determined by the U.S. Army's investigation, which came a year and a half ago... became Iran. So, unfortunately, in this sense, the two motions for resolutions are linked. It is important to combat Islamic State, although it is basically a defensive project. We know this from the terror wave from 2015 to 2017. It clearly stated that the Islamic State both wants and can cause incredible damage both in the Middle East and here in Europe. However, I would like it to be recorded that I do not believe that the efforts we are making in Iran will create peace or democratic conditions or the like. This is a defensive measure which is about preventing the empty space of power from becoming too large, the anarchy becoming too violent, the Islamic State being able to resurrect in this way. But that is why we support the motion for a resolution B 159 because we are opposed to the empty space of power. Compared to B 160, I note, like several other rapporteurs, that Denmark has one of the world's largest merchant fleets. In the old days such a thing was accompanied by having one of the world's largest Navys, but it is not exactly possible to claim that we have one in Denmark. We usually sail in the lurch of NATO and in the lurch of the US Navy when it is outside NATO's operating area. But, of course, we should make a reasonable contribution directly to maintaining the freedom to sail in international waters. And that's what we're gonna do when we send a navy ship to the Hormuz Strait. So, on this basis, we support both resolutions in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154848	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that concludes the rapporteur's series, and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526154903	Thank you, Mr President. The Government has today made two proposals: two major contributions to the fight against ISIL and to the promotion of freedom of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz. In Iraq, it is about educating and training Iraqi security institutions and forces to take care of their own security, as several of the rapporteurs have said, because it is about ensuring that ISIL does not once again gain a foothold in the region and thus the possibility of threatening Europe and Denmark. And it is also a question of reducing the migratory pressure against Europe from an unstable region, and it is an addition to the stabilisation efforts in which Denmark has been helping both civil stabilisation, reconciliation and so on for several years. in Iraq. In the Strait of Hormuz, it deals with a contribution to free navigation, along with our European partners, and Denmark has a special responsibility as the world's fifth largest maritime nation. First of all, I would like to make a few further comments on B 159: I am pleased that there is broad support and thanks for the fact that from the end of the year Denmark is taking over the management of NATO's mission in Iraq. The resolution confirms Denmark's status as a core alliance in NATO, and the resolution also points out that Denmark is a credible, responsible partner at a time when international solidarity, multilateral cooperation and collective defence have never been more important. Since 2014, Denmark has taken part in the international coalition to combat ISIL and stabilise Iraq, and thanks to its efforts, ISIL has now significantly declined and lost control of its former territory. However, ISIL is still a threat, and we have seen in recent months that ISIL is exploiting the situation that is currently under way to increase its attacks on civilian and military targets in Iraq, and that is why we must strengthen the Iraqi security forces and their ability to carry out Iraq's own security in the future. That is precisely the purpose of the NMI, which is expected to play an increasingly central role in Iraq in the future. It is important to stress that the planned contributions to NMI support Denmark's other priorities and broader efforts in Iraq. In addition to the Danish military contributions, it also includes our material stabilisation commitment and the Danish humanitarian contributions to Iraq. So there are two important clues here to win the peace and defeat ISIL. There is no doubt that Denmark will enter the mission at a critical time and under complex and very difficult conditions. The situation in Iraq is extremely fragile and unpredictable, which was evident with the increased level of tension at the beginning of the year. Since last autumn, Iraq has been marked by major popular protests and has undergone a government crisis, and at the same time the combination of covid-19 and the falling oil prices has thrown the country into a serious economic crisis. Developments, in particular the security and health situation, have made it difficult for NATO to plan and implement its activities. On the short track, the situation has necessitated a break for NMI's training activities, and it is still unclear when the training activities can resume. This uncertainty is expected to apply until the Danish takeover of the mission at the end of the year, and at the same time we can look forward from the Danish side to leading a mission that is under development. Negotiations are currently taking place in NATO on a strengthened role for the NMI, and this means, for example, that the NMI is likely to take over selected training assignments from the coalition's Operation Inherent Resolve, while NATO also looks at the possibility of further expanding NMI's tasks. This is a long-term process which depends to a large extent on, among other things: Iraq's support for the coalition and NMI's future activities as well as US military planning. However, I am confident in relation to NMI's ability to effectively solve the current and future tasks, and I am also sensitive to several positive trends. Iraq has finally got a new government. The new Prime Minister, Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, was voted through by a broad majority in Parliament and he reaffirmed to the NATO Secretary-General Iraq's desire for enhanced cooperation with NATO in Iraq. In addition, a strategic dialogue between the United States and Iraq was launched in June, which hopefully will form the basis for continued close economic and military cooperation. There is no doubt that Iraq is still facing difficult challenges and that the situation is very dynamic, but given the situation from 2014 to today, great progress has nevertheless been made. The Iraqi security forces are today in a completely different place than when ISIL took massive territory in 2014 and drove Iraqi soldiers fleeing from a million city such as Mosul. The NMI is helping to ensure that this development is not rolled back, and it is crucial that we continue to support the Iraqi reform efforts to ensure a competent security sector under effective civilian control... a security sector that shows respect for human rights, which has been mentioned by several people, and which is representative and accountable to all groups of Iraqi society. Now to maritime safety around the Strait of Hormuz. In the summer of 2019 we saw a worrying escalation in the security situation in the Strait of Hormuz and the surrounding Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. As we have also mentioned, the strait is an important commercial hub. It is of great importance to countries that live on trade with the outside world, and such a country is Denmark. As the world's fifth largest maritime nation, the right to free navigation is crucial to Denmark's security and prosperity. Therefore, it is important that we make an active effort in the world to protect Danish ships and their right to sail freely and safely. And Denmark is not alone in this concern. Together with our close allies, we continuously discussed over the second half of 2019 how best to protect the free navigation in the area. For the government, it was always essential that a Danish contribution to a maritime security effort should be part of a broader European anchored effort. That is why we were also pleased that, on 12 December 2019, we were able to give political support to a European-led maritime monitoring mission, which includes: France and the Netherlands are also contributing to this. The Government's proposal contains a sought-after fleet contribution to EMASOH, which will cement the close European cooperation to address concrete security challenges. I would also like to emphasise that the purpose of the mission is to help stabilise the security situation and deescale tensions in the area and to avoid more of the type of events that took place over the summer of 2019. The mission therefore also has an easy print and a mandate. As I said, this is a monitoring mission and not a protection mission. At the same time, it is an important priority for Denmark that the mission also includes an important diplomatic trail aimed at strengthening the dialogue between the actors in the region and contributing to deescalation. I would like to thank all the parties and the rapporteurs for their contributions and for the good debate we have had in this Chamber today, and I also hope that this will result in broad support for the resolutions. At the end of the day, I would also like to address the concerns expressed by Mrs Flyvholm of the Enhedslisten. There is no doubt that the challenges in Iraq are massive. We've seen that for a long time. There is no doubt either that Iraq is somewhere else than it was just five years ago when the Islamic State had taken over large parts of the country. When we think it is important that Denmark, together with the NATO countries and also in the international coalition against global terrorism, should take responsibility and take the lead in relation to the NMI, it is because we can see that it supports the possibility of Iraq being able to stand on its own feet in security terms and the possibility of being stabilized, and that it also supports the Iraqi civilian population, as if anyone is entitled to live in a peaceful and stable country. That is why we also support reforms • we work closely with, among others. The UN and other actors in Iraq to push the reform and reconciliation process, to ensure that the young people who walk the streets and demonstrate, as they have done for a long time, are also heard, and that we can see that the new Iraqi Government is delivering on what the legal expectations of the people are. That is why it is wise for us to contribute, and that is why we are, of course, ready for it from the Danish side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526155815	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526155821	Thank you for your examination and for your reply. As far as Iraq is concerned, I would just like to ask: if we are going to experience a situation in which these attacks on peaceful demonstrators in Iraq actually continue, that the security forces continue to play the role we have seen so far, and it may well get worse when we open up society more and there will be more demonstrations. Denmark will then withdraw its support, that is, if we see that the security forces continue to attack peaceful demonstrators? That was one question. The second question is in relation to the Strait of Hormuz, and it is more about the technique in it. Now I have read the resolution, but how can it be understood that we actually have the mandate to assist the other international forces in the region? What is really our commitment to the American mission down there? Because I can be super unsteady about what is developing between Iran and the United States in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526155929	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526155931	Firstly, on the question of Iraq: we in Denmark also support massive civil stabilisation, reforms, reconstruction, reconciliation, etc. The United Nations, the European Union and others, and that is, after all, alongside our military contribution. I would also just like to say that it is essential that we train and build up a capacity in the Iraqi security forces, that we teach them about Danish values, about how to respect human rights, how to have civil control over security forces, whether military or police. That's part of what's the job down there. I would just like to say to Mrs Flyvholm that, if you left Iraq and did not undertake that task, I am sure of one thing: that the situation will only get worse. We are there because we can see that we are making the situation better and Iraq able to move in the right direction. That is not to say that there are not great challenges. We are in complete agreement on that, but we believe that it is right to be there. In relation to the Strait of Hormuz and the mandate: our contribution also rests in the motion for a resolution on international law, international law, etc., and this is important when we are there, and it is a European-led monitoring mission. Then it is clear that this is the mandate on which it is based, and we must help to descale and ensure that ships can sail freely through the Strait of Hormuz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160049	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160053	Thank you. However, I do not really think the Minister is concerned that my question is, of course, about the fact that it says that the operation also has a mandate to defend the other international operations, that is, the British and American missions in the area. What exactly does that mean? In fact, I would like to know more about this, and if we cannot have it in this Chamber, we will have to take it in writing. I think it is important to clarify this. As far as Iraq is concerned, I must understand the answer given by the Foreign Minister there that, although the attacks by the security forces continue, they will actually continue to be trained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160129	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160130	Finally, the whole purpose of our being in Iraq is also to train the security forces so that they respect human rights and good principles. That's why, when we're there, it's actually important. In relation to the Strait of Hormuz, it is important to say that we are there in relation to international law, and it is also clear that we can provide self-defence if we are attacked by others or threatened. Then, of course, we always have that right. It is also clear that, to the extent that others are threatened and there are breaches of international law, we can stand up to defend other allies and nuclear allies. That is also the case, and we are, of course, coordinating cooperation between the various missions. There is not only the American-led and European-led mission, there are also countries, Japan and others that have independent ships in the area, which also have the same purpose: to ensure free navigation and respect for international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160220	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. Then we would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160231	Thank you. Denmark has for a number of years contributed to peace and stability in the world's hot spots. This has been done with broad support from the Danish Parliament. That commitment the government wants to continue and expand with relevant and sought-after contributions. It is about combating terrorism and avoiding increased migratory pressures, and it is about supporting maritime safety for the benefit of commercial shipping. This is partly done by means of a larger package for NATO's mission in Iraq, which, among other things, includes: includes a Head of Mission and a number of military contributions, on the one hand, with an effort in the Strait of Hormuz, which includes a ship's contribution and a staff officer's contribution to the European Maritime Monitoring Mission led. We must contribute to the two efforts for several reasons. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is primarily a matter of supporting continued action against the terrorist organisation ISIL. ISIL continues to pose a threat, even though the geographical caliphate has now been defeated. ISIL is seeking to continue its activities with its monstrous ideology and, above all, as an inspirator for instability and terrorist attacks, also outside the Middle East. We will support the fight against ISIL by advising and training the Iraqi security forces so that in future they can take care of Iraq's own security. In relation to the effort in the Strait of Hormuz, it is about contributing to free and safe sailing through a strengthened maritime surveillance in the area. As the world's fifth largest maritime nation, it is something Denmark has a clear interest in. Thus, Denmark will contribute substantially to increasing security in the wider region. Both types of contributions are needed. The security situation in Iraq and in the wider region is worrying. We have seen recent attacks on the civilian population, attacks on coalition camps and personnel and terrorist attacks. In the Strait of Hormuz, the level of tension can rapidly change with increased risk of shipping. As always when we send out soldiers, the security of the soldiers is at the forefront. It is not safe missions or deployment areas to which we send Danish soldiers. Of course, we must be very aware of that. The threat was also high when the Danish Parliament sent soldiers to the Al Asad Air Base. Our soldiers are trained and ready for the challenges that the tasks will require of them. With the efforts in Iraq, we emphasise that Denmark remains a core member of NATO. NATO is a community and a community must also contribute. The concrete contributions to Iraq and the Strait of Hormuz must be seen in the context of the great Danish commitment to the region in the form of support for development and stabilisation efforts and humanitarian aid. And in this context, I would like to emphasise that, in the area of the Ministry of Defence and through the existing peace and stabilisation programme for Iraq and Syria, contributions are being made, for example, to mine clearance and advice in the field of security. I hope that there will be broad support here in the Folketing for the contributions, and I do, because it is very important for the soldiers we send out that they have a strong mandate. Efforts are in the interest of Denmark, Europe and the region. Denmark takes responsibility, not only at home, but also for the security challenges in Europe's neighbourhood. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160600	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160605	I would also like to thank you for your review. In relation to Hormuz, I would like to say that I myself have seen the assessment from the Defence Intelligence Service, which is that there is in fact no immediate threat to civilian passage in the area. I would like to hear from the Minister how they have weighed up the concerns that may actually lie in the fact that if we are going to be militarily present, we can also at the same time risk helping to escalate the situation down there. It may happen that there is an increased risk that things will become more tense, that misunderstandings may arise along the way. This is also one of the views of the Defence Intelligence Service, that is to say, that it is a very tense situation. So how have those considerations been weighed against each other? Well, when I do, it's clear that my conclusion is that we shouldn't. However, I would like to hear the Minister's balance of views on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160704	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160705	Well, in that assessment, there have been many different perspectives, and that is why we have also come to the conclusion that we want to contribute to a European-led mission. After all, it is both about what kind of initiative we are contributing to, but it is also about threats. And you can always say that the threat will rise if we get there. But that's not what we've seen. Since summer, we have seen that there has been greater stability in the region. But there can also be lightning-fast it is the assessment that creates greater instability. What the defence reports is that there is a positive difference in perception of the American mission and the European mission. And this results in fewer incidents with Iranian security forces for the European mission. This underlines to me that the mission we are contributing to is a real political analysis behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160804	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160805	I would just like to say that there are also a number of other factors which have meant that the situation is now slightly more stabilized than it was six months ago. Well, it was historically bad six months ago, we just have to say, extremely escalated. It is, of course, only positive that it is, as it were, a little steeped down, and I think that in reality perhaps more raises the question of whether we should not be building on trying this escalation rather than putting forward a warship now. Well, what is actually positive about what we are contributing?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160841	Here you go, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160841-2	Well, I take the view that we must stand up for our conventions. And conventions are about free navigation. We have seen some who tried to put an obstacle to free navigation. And that is the political wish that we should be present in the Strait of Hormuz and want to contribute with this ship's contribution. You may well have many other views on this, but it is a political convention that is so important that free navigation is so important that we need to help mark that those values must be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526160923	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161012	The debate has been opened and, first of all, I would like to welcome the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161024	Thank you so much. I would also like to thank the Radical Left for presenting the motion for a resolution and in this way also provide the basis for a very important debate on a very important and sometimes very complex subject. We must first deal with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left, which, as I have said, seeks to tighten up the rules on target numbers and policies for the proportion of the under-represented sex in the top management bodies of private companies. The motion for a resolution requires the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals by 2020 and to make the necessary administrative changes to ensure that the rules on target numbers and policies for the proportion of the under-represented sex in the top management bodies of private companies become more effective, binding and transparent. According to the motion for a resolution, this is to be done by re-establishing binding follow-up targets for enterprises and by establishing a public database under the Danish Business Administration, which will provide a single entry point for corporate reporting of target figures and policies. In addition, the government must call for negotiations to expand the number of private companies covered by the rules. Finally, a public benchmark must be introduced so that companies and the public can see how individual companies are doing in relation to other companies in the same sector in order to ensure an equal gender balance in the top management battles. I would like to start by emphasising that the government, like the proposers, is very aware of the slow development of the proportion of women in the top management bodies of Danish companies. For many years, the development has almost stood still, and I find it very depressing to read the reports on gender distribution on the boards of the largest Danish companies. The latest Erhvervsstyrelsen report shows that the proportion of women board members in listed companies has only increased by 1.9 percentage points in 3 years • i.e. 3 years: 1.9 percentage points. That is, of course, far too little, and it can be said that if developments continue at the same rate, many years will pass before we have a gender balance. That is why action must be taken, and the government is determined to do so. We want to promote a balanced gender distribution in the management halls and in the board rooms in Denmark, so that Denmark once again takes the lead, and so that we get all the talents played in our private companies. I would also like to say that, as Minister for Business and Industry, I do not want us to achieve a more equal distribution of gender in management and boardrooms, only because it is right to make sure that I understand correctly, but also because I am convinced that we will have companies that are better equipped to make the best and most long-term decisions as well. This will benefit both our society and the companies, because there will be greater diversity in management channels and in the boardrooms, which is valuable on the bottom line for the same companies. Therefore, the government will look at how among other things. legislation can be adapted in a way that pushes the development of the gender balance in companies in a better direction. I sincerely believe that the measures proposed in this motion for a resolution are interesting and that it would be exciting to have them identified in greater detail. The motion for a resolution first proposes that the follow-up objectives should be made binding on companies once again. This means that companies are thus obliged to set a new and higher target figure once they have achieved their previous objectives and then continue until companies have achieved a gender balance. Prior to 2016, the guidance on target numbers and policies indicated that companies had to set a new target number and a time period for their expected achievement when they met their target numbers. It was amended in the guidance of the former government in March 2016 to remove that requirement. I agree with the proposers that it was inappropriate at the time to remove the requirement for companies to set a new target figure if they had met their targets and policies. Against this background, I think it would be appropriate to look at whether the target figures could be made more binding, so that companies set new and higher targets once companies have reached their previously set target figure. Then the motion for a resolution also proposes the establishment of a public database under the Danish Business Authority and proposes a public benchmarking. I think this is exciting ideas and it will be something that we will be able to take further in discussions in the work of promoting the under-represented gender in management. However, having said all that, we are also in a quite extraordinary situation in the light of the great challenges that the Covid-19 has brought to us. It is very important that we find the right balance in relation to the legislation that may need to be made and therefore I think it would be premature to take a position on the real solution here today. The government believes that we should not now and here stick to a particular model. I want and propose a political discussion of the solutions and other ideas, and to discuss the intended and perhaps unintended consequences of the proposals, so that we can get around everything thoroughly. As I have explained, the government finds the resolution interesting to clarify and wishes to take it further in the reflections on the work to promote the under-represented gender in management that we must jointly pass through. Due to the consequences of the corona crisis, the government considers that this is not the right time to adopt a particular model yet, and that is why we want to continue dialogue with the parties and other stakeholders in this area so that we can find the right solutions. Against this background, the government does not support the resolution here, but looks forward to further committee work on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161728	Thank you, Minister. There had just been a point too early on the screen up here, so I can say to the rapporteurs who rushed into the Chamber that they are not too late. The Minister of Business and I have made the right speech). You made the right speech at the right point, so that's right. Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it's for mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go. I'll give you a chance now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161755	We're in the right place and everything. That's great. I should just like to ask the Minister whether the Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, is the leader of the Social Democratic Party because she is a woman or because she is the most suitable leader of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161809	The Social Democratic Party has the most suitable chairman, of course, and Mette Frederiksen is also a woman, but I do not know exactly what that has to do with the proposal here. For what we are looking into, if I understand the authors of the proposals correctly, is the question of whether we in the private companies in Denmark will be able to make good use of the talent stock. In other words, the talents that we can also hear business organisations themselves point to are found through a more equal gender distribution in management, are not sufficiently at stake in our private companies. Therefore, what we are discussing here today, as I see it, is in the interests of society, but also in the interests of companies themselves, because it can be seen on the bottom line when you have a better gender balance. If that were to mean that because the President of the Social Democratic Party is the most suitable, and she is, all of this could be irrelevant, then I do not share that view at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161913	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161915	No, but there is the proposal that there are some who believe that we should dictate who is the best. Then you set targets because you simply do not believe that companies can hire the people they think are best in management positions themselves. This corresponds to the fact that we in the Danish Parliament should decide that the Social Democratic Party should. That is why it is a question of: do you think that you have a right to impose specific requirements on companies on how best to put together a management board?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161953	Minister of Business, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526161954	Well, then we at least moved the debate from being about the objective to being about the means we are using, and then we are down to what I am also saying: this is so complex; there are so many balances. There are small and there are large companies. There are many considerations. There are intended consequences and there are unintended consequences. And all this is in favour of taking political discussions on the means used here and how to do so. However, this does not remove the focus from the fact that I think the objective is right: that a more balanced gender balance is desirable, including in our private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162029	Thank you. Then it is the turn of the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162035	Thank you to the Minister for a very good speech. One would think that my speech papers had been buried, at least until there was a statement that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. But it has been said that I shall then be a little curious when we can expect these political discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162120	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162121	That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. I have not had the speech papers of the radical rapporteur. Fortunately, the systems are not that advanced. But I can only be happy if we have reflected some of the same views on this challenge and on this potential that lies in this case. This is, moreover, something we share, in my best terms, with a very large proportion of business and business organisations, which also want more movement in this direction. On the question of political negotiations, I would like to say that they will be called when we, as a government, also have the opportunity to put matters right together. This is a complex area, and I do not think I am exaggerating if I say that the whole of the Corona crisis and its handling have cleared the table of what might be left of cases at the same time. That is why we are very aware of this and, of course, I hope that it can be before too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162229	Thank you. Is there a follow-up remark? There is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162231	Thank you. When I ask about a time, it is because this has also been a debate before Corona entered and put our country down. For in November last year the Minister for Gender Equality was out commenting on some similar ideas. In February the Minister for Industry himself said that a work had been started. That's why I get a little curious. In relation to the corona crisis, the Minister himself mentions that diversity can be seen on the bottom line, so why not do it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162307	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162308	That's right. I myself was out in February also saying that the work was going on. It can be said that what has happened between February and now is the covid-19, and that is the corona crisis. If it had not been here, I am just beginning to think that we might have been engaged in the political negotiations already, and who knows if they would have been completed? Maybe it's too much to tell. But it's just to stress that the government is serious about this, and we look into wanting to have political discussions about it. I just can't set a date today for when they start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162339	Thank you. The next rapporteur I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162344	Thank you very much. You'd also think the minister had his hands on my speech papers. We are very much in agreement on the issue, I can see, and that is wonderful, but the last many years have been talking about equality both in the labour market and in relation to many other facets of our lives, and very little is happening, as the Minister has also mentioned. The minister says that action must be taken, and you are very keen to do so in the government, you want to get all talents into play. I understand that we have not been able to do this in the last few months, but there was also an autumn in which we discussed all these things, and I am therefore surprised that this initiative has not been taken by the government in the past if it is as important for the Minister of Industry and the government as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162428	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162429	I think we share the impatience, and this is, of course, about getting ready for the political negotiations that have to take place. I think it should be an objective for us that it is this Parliament that adopts the equality policy that should bring Denmark to where we are taking more steps than the steps I tried to indicate in my speech that have been taken. Over the last three years, this was an increase of 1.9 percentage points. That's far too little. So that is why my dedication is that it should be this Parliament that adopts the new steps, which hopefully will be bigger and better than what we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162517	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162519	I really hope that it will be within the next year or two and not just adopted by this Parliament. What I am thinking, too, is when the Minister, on the first part of this proposal for these guidelines for companies on the follow-up targets, says that it was inappropriate for the previous government to remove the requirement, is whether it is not something that can then be introduced now. While we are waiting for discussions on the other things, we may be able to bring this about relatively quickly. As far as I am aware, it is about guidelines. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162552	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162553	I think that the issue here is so complex both in a difficult sense, but also in an important sense, that it should be taken as an overall process in which we discuss together how we can promote better equality in the management of our private companies. I have indicated what I think of the specific proposal, and I do not think I can put much more words on that. But I see it as an overall process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162625	Thank you. And the next person to speak has already risen. It is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162632	Thank you for the floor. I just had to take the floor because I could hear that there was a little resistance in this Chamber. I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that one of the most well-documented phenomena in social science is precisely that it is not qualifications that are employed on the basis of, but that it is very much gender. In addition, we see that it is secondary to professional background and also age. And that is why it does not apply to elected leaders. When it comes to elected representatives, we often see that there is a better representation of both sexes, but when it comes to appointments to management and as senior colleagues, it is often middle-aged men with a background as djøfs who are recruited. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162716	It sounds like I'm supposed to say yes, but it would mean that I had read the same studies. So I would say that it sounds plausible, and I also think that that is what I am encountering. But understand me correctly: one thing is what research says, but for me it is really very important in this context that private companies themselves demand more equality because they can see that it also creates value on their bottom line. That is at least what they are suggesting, and that is what their organizations are really carrying out with the same impatience that I sense we share in this matter in parts of the Parliamentary Assembly at least. What the rapporteur is asking, I can easily confirm calmly, but I have not read the same studies. I can only add that business organisations also want more equality, including management. That calls for us to take this matter seriously here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162816	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162818	Thank you for your answer. Nor was it to nerd around candidates and professional backgrounds, but I recognise that I have a background in social science and working life studies. I have a question with regard to the economic bottom line, because I think it is not just for that reason. In other words, in relation to companies and the things we choose to create and produce, business plays a huge role. It's also a power room. It is also about what direction we should take as a society. That's why we support it with the green and all these parts. But does the Minister not also believe that there is a political point in that those areas of power should also be available to women and to minorities and not just to a tiny group of society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162859	Minister of Business, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162901	Indeed, there are many approaches to why the issue of equality is really important, and that is why, as I think I said at some point, there is also reason to be discouraged by reading how things are progressing. I was just trying, with my hat as Minister of Business, to put on top of that, that there is actually a business community calling for talent to be put into play. And then you might ask, Why don't they just do it themselves? Here I think there are structural and cultural barriers that need to be pushed a little, and we can do this with good political discussions, including in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162934	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526162939	Thank you. I would like to hear a little about the Minister's position on the political negotiations promised by the Minister in this area. Right now, the companies are in a very difficult situation and the business community is having a hard time getting things together out there, which is why I fear a lot of bureaucracy. I would like to know whether the Minister does not think that companies are best at running their own business and whether the Minister will be in favour of quotas and coercion in the political discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163023	In other words, it is clear that private companies are best run by private operators. This is my entirely fundamental position, but I am also listening when it is demanded in business organisations that equal opportunities should be improved, because it brings out the masses of talent in companies better and because it is also entirely economical that we should not be mistaken that this is also why we want this to help improve the bottom line. Then it is clear that there are really important points in what the Conservative rapporteur refers to here. I think I called it potentially unintended consequences. It is of course very important that, in the discussions we are going to have with each other, we are able both to see the intended consequences of what we want to achieve but also to see whether there may be accidental consequences. It can be burdens, it can be bureaucracy, it can be a balance in relation to particularly smaller companies, where we need to have a look so as not to put them down with burdens. So I would say that is only natural to be involved in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163129	Thank you. There are no further questions to the Minister for Industry or brief comments. So we would like to thank Mrs Birgitte Vind for that and welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163152	Thank you for the floor and thank you very much to the Radical Left for raising the issue of gender equality in the top management bodies of private companies. In the social democracy we very much agree that something needs to be done. It is simply too slow to create a gender balance, and if there is no change in recruitment soon, then at the present rate we will be approaching the end of this century before we can see a marked equality or something similar to equality. So it is deeply unsatisfactory that we in Denmark lag behind not only our neighbouring countries, but also other countries in Europe for that matter. This is unsatisfactory because gender equality is not just about equality in itself, but also about society and the exploitation of resources that companies miss. A few years ago, a research group of the International Monetary Fund conducted a rather comprehensive study of the link between the profitability of companies and the number of women in top management. The research group analysed no less than 2 million European companies in 34 countries and the result was quite clear: that companies with women in management and management simply have a higher profitability. If one man in top management is replaced by one woman, the company's profitability is up to 8%. Better. The creation of value is simply higher in companies with diverse management, and it is deeply distressing that in a country such as Denmark, where women take such long courses, we cannot find a way of recruiting women to top positions. This is a waste of good talent, and the reason must be partly seen in the legislation, but it must also be seen in the culture that prevails in companies. We all know here that in 2012 the SRVSF government introduced the law on gender composition targets in boards and management boards, but that in 2016 in the bourgeois government, before the law had really been allowed to work, the requirements were relaxed so that fixed targets were no longer set, and today we can see that development has stalled. As the proposers point out in the comments in the proposal, we now only have female managers in 75 out of the 1,000 largest Danish companies. So in the Social Democratic Party we would very, very much like to take a look at the legislation, and we would very much like to be involved in discussing the possibilities and finding the best ways to ensure equality in Denmark. As a parliamentarian, we have a responsibility to set the direction, and the direction can be, for example. be the establishment of target figures, policy development and publicly available registers. But a new culture must also be created in the business world. Today, you typically recruit from your networks, and we know that if it is the men who are employed today, and it is the men who are on the boards, then they network in their own networks, and then it is the men you recruit and point to. You often point to someone who looks like you, so companies need to have an incentive to think beyond the network they already know, and here an increased transparency could well be part of the solution, so you have the opportunity to influence your habit thinking, and we fully agree with the Radical Left that sanctions are not the way forward. Well, it's rare that whip works over carrot. So we have very, very much sympathy for it. However, I would also like to express this here, but or rather: we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands right now, because we want to achieve the objective of increased equality and also greater diversity on the boards, but we are also very concerned about dialogue with the business community about this. And in that process, we believe it is important to look for different models and different solutions and not to adopt one specific model in advance. We want a broad inclusive work towards the goal, and of course we also want it to be put into effect, yes, rather today than tomorrow, during this period of government, at least and I will be very optimistic when I hear my Minister of Industry's very positive attitude to try to look at it and perhaps to have looked at it if it was not because corona had made its entry into the world and also in Denmark, and I certainly know the light at the end of the tunnel. So I really look forward to the forthcoming discussions in committee, and I will do my best to have a joint report across the parties in the Folketing, and that must be done, and it can almost only go too slowly. So I trust the government will take the lead in this work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163636	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's for Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163641	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister mentioned that it was here that Parliament should adopt a series of steps towards greater equality. And the rapporteur also points out that it is simply too slow and agrees with the content, as I understand it, of the resolution here. It just sounds a little hollow to me, because soon it will be a year, and for my part this is the first time I have been in the Chamber as equal opportunities rapporteur, and I assume it is also for Mrs Birgitte Vind. So is it not true that things are going too slowly and that some steps should also have been taken at this stage in the area of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163723	Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163724	Thank you. In other words, now that the rapporteur and I both know what has happened in Denmark in recent months, and when I hear the Minister say that the work was done in this way, I am very confident that it will happen. I think we feel the same way, and it is really, really a pity that nothing has happened yet, but I do not blame anyone for that at all, either in this Parliament or in the government, because some things have happened around us that we have not mastered. But it's gonna be
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163800	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163802	It is true that some things have happened and I assume that it is the covid-19 that is referred to, but it is really only in the last few months that this has been the case. I am a little wondering how the Social Democrats and the rapporteur are going to be opposed to the resolution, because it does not say that it is today or tomorrow, but at the end of 2020. So why can we not support this motion for a resolution if we are so happy with the content and so keen on equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163838	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163839	Thank you. Well, I am listening to the Minister's words and, as I hear the Minister, he is very keen to get it started as soon as possible, but he is also saying that he cannot set a date on it, and I am, of course, leaning on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163851	The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163856	Does the rapporteur really think that there are Danish companies that agree to drive with an 8%? What is more, because they refuse to employ women?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526163910	That is a very leading question. I don't know if anyone is refusing to hire women, but I don't have the impression of it. I think it's a lot about culture in companies. I myself have been at a public place of work, and there is also a kind of culture where you can sometimes hire someone who looks like you, and someone you think you know is good at the job, even though there are recruitment procedures. And then it is also about the fact that we need to look at it more broadly. It is usually said that culture is like an iceberg: there is a fifth that pokes over the water, and then there are four fifths underwater, and these are all the assumptions that we cannot see. So, although we may have good recruitment procedures, and although we may think that we have everything under control, there may well be some basic assumptions in companies that make you look at some of those who look like you, and that is what I hear the companies themselves say. I think that some of us have been in the same panel debate with business people and bankers this autumn, when they say themselves that they really need to look inwards, need to have a talk with each other about how we can change our view of who we can hire.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164010	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164011	Then I can convey a little greeting from the business community and say that out there you have a focus on the bottom line, and if you could find an improvement of 8 per cent. By hiring women, they do it right away. It is the rapporteur himself who brings the 8%. in games where it is said that companies that have a higher proportion of women have 8%. better bottom line. Then I'm just saying that if that were the case, I can promise you that the companies were queued up to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164041	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164042	I don't know what the question was. I didn't catch that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164049	The time has passed, so thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left and I would like to welcome Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164106	Thank you for the floor. It's great to stand here again after five years. That fg. Welcome! ) Thank you very much. Today we are debating a resolution by the Radical Left aimed at increasing the number of women in top positions and in private companies. We in the Left have sympathy for the proposal, and we certainly think that it is a problem that the number of women in senior management is lagging behind, and this is a problem that we take very seriously. We will miss a huge amount of talent if we do not get more women in top management, and there is no doubt that diversity benefits. Companies with diversity in management perform better. We want to help push in the right direction and put an end to the male culture that exists, and that is why we agree with the diagnosis, but not with the medicine. We have the view that there are many handles to be turned on and there are many reasons why there are not as many women as there are men in top positions in private companies. I would like to mention some of them: firstly, we can see that maternity and parental leave are some of the most important elements. It is a well-known fact that some women's careers come to a standstill when they have their first child, and you can see that when fathers take more leave, there will be more equality in the family. That is why we are also calling for more parental leave for men. In Denmark, fathers take about 10%. of the total maternity leave. Secondly, we have a gender-based labour market in which men and women are to a large extent in different parts of the labour market. Women account for as much as 70%. in the public sector, whereas in the private sector men are outnumbered, where men overall represent a 60% majority. with a mass overweight of 90 per cent. in certain sectors, in particular construction and other craft industries. So for this reason alone, there can be fewer women in top management in private companies, simply because there are more men than women in the private sector. Thirdly, there are women who do not take advantage of the opportunity to increase their degrees, and perhaps that is because they give higher priority to family life. It can be seen, for example. the average working hours of men and women are different. In 2018, the average weekly working time of women was 32 hours, while men worked on average 36.8 hours per week. That is a major reason. Fourthly, we think it is a little old-fashioned and too narrow to see the problem of diversity as merely a gender problem. Diversity is also about age, ethnicity, educational background and many other things. We believe that we must use our energies to create the framework and opportunities that make it relevant for companies to bring diversity into all layers. We should not use resources to regulate detail in narrow areas. Finally, I would like to say that I do not understand why the Radical Left is proposing that more companies should be covered by the rules, because there are limits to how much bureaucracy we have to impose on private companies, especially at these times when there is a struggle to create growth and jobs. In the Left, we are in favour of a stop to the burden. We would like to discuss it further, and we can also understand that the Minister is calling for further discussions, and we would, of course, like to participate, but we do not believe that only one element pushes it all. We are open and always want to discuss the area, because we take it seriously, and I have to say that as things stand right now, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164536	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first to ask for a brief comment is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164542	Thank you very much. And congratulations on the first rapporteur's speech in five years, I think it is, or something like that. Fatma Øtkem It's a long time). I think it is nice to hear that the Left also thinks that it is a problem that women are missing in the management channels and that you take it very seriously. But I do not think I can hear in the rapporteur's speech what tools you intend to use if this is none of them. So that is really my question: what do the Left think are some tools we can use? Because I hear the rapporteur mention many problems, many causes, but not what the solutions are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164619	Mrs Fatma Øtkem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164619-2	Thank you very much. Well, as I said, there are also many different challenges, because these are not individual solutions that we see as an opportunity to help eliminate the problems. There is the gender-based labour market. There are far, far more women working in the public sector and men working in the private sector. There are girls who choose differently from boys still away, so we have the whole field of education, and that is not something you can just take care of with a fingertips. There must be a change of culture, not only in the families in terms of maternity, not only in the companies, which I think is already doing a great deal of work, but also in the society around • again the maternity leave and how we choose to work and which sectors we choose to work in. So this is an area out of a great many, but I actually think that companies already take a great deal of responsibility. I do not believe that there is a single company in Denmark for whom it would be beneficial to have a woman in the management or on the board who would exclude him simply because of gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164728	Thank you. Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164729	Thank you. I understand that there are many facets and that this is also about a change of culture in our society. Nevertheless, I believe that legislation can also help to bring about this cultural change, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with that. But since I cannot be told overall what the Left is thinking, I will try to ask more specific questions. The rapporteur mentions maternity leave and that men should take more maternity leave so that women have better opportunities in the labour market and men also have more time with their children. Does the rapporteur agree to make what is the term 'earned leave' here in the near future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164814	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164814-2	After all, there is an EU directive on the way in which we need to discuss it, and we are also looking forward to the Minister for Employment opening up when we can discuss it. We believe that it will be a step in the right direction with regard to women and management and women and career • because it has been shown that women are very good at taking the barshell and would rather not let it go. So there's room for men to go in and take maternity leave. And we look forward to those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164846	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164850	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and congratulations on the first rapporteur's speech in this period. I agree that there are some things that are structuralally going in and affecting us and the choices we make from the very moment we are children, and therefore I would like to hear the rapporteur in relation to the gender-based labour market. It also starts with the education programmes. The first part is: what does the rapporteur think can be done to support the fact that there are more men who want to be nurses or educators and more women, such as women? Want to be a craftsman? The second part is: what will the rapporteur do to support men taking more maternity leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164934	Here you go, Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526164935	Thank you very much. As far as I remember, it was a former Left Minister, an equal opportunities minister, who started a campaign to crack the code that was at least something with a crack and it was about having to crack the prejudices that are in terms of educational choices and the way young people choose in terms of getting a better knowledge. We need to be aware that if it is a problem that we lack women in some education, then it is also a problem that we lack men in other education. So much more needs to be done, and this needs to be done much earlier, and I believe that the presentation of the training should be extended to young people. I don't remember the last question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165027	We can get a follow-up. There is a follow-up question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165030	The question was: what would the rapporteur do to support men taking more maternity leave? Let us try to be quite specific, for example. In this context, it is important that we take a look at the education of teachers on the one hand and the training of bricklayers on the other. How will the rapporteur support the desire for more men, for example? to be educators, and more women want to be bricklayers? The second question is how the rapporteur will support men taking more maternity leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165055-2	Thank you very much. I think time is working on it too. We need to get young people more out, they need to have a better knowledge, they need to touch the different educations, they need to get to know them better. I think that's one way to do it. Then it also has a little to do with the families. Quite often it is seen that young people choose the same education as their parents and that they reflect themselves in the sexes, so that if it is a girl, she reflects herself in the mother, and if it is a boy, he reflects himself in the danger. That is one of the things we need to do. With regard to what we are going to do to get more men to take maternity leave, thank God it is also a debate that is very much taking place now, including among professional organisations. There is a debate, and more and more people are coming in. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165142	Time is running really fast. The next question is Mrs. Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165147	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur agreed with the diagnosis, but unfortunately not in the medicine as it was formulated. However, I just think that it smells a little like declarations of intent and lists of what I think everyone can see are problems: the gender-separated labour market and women take 90 per cent. and men only 10%. of the barssel. But can the rapporteur be more specific about what are some tools that need to be used to ensure more women in management?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165224	First of all, women must also be there. As I was trying to say, there may be different reasons. We have to keep everything going at the same time. It may well be that the Radicals want to make one proposal, and then it has to solve everything, but we do not believe in that. We do not believe that just by creating more administrative burdens for businesses we will solve that task. We want to recognise and we also say that this is a problem, and there may have to be a change in culture in many places, but we just do not believe that this one proposal, where only companies have to be held responsible, is the solution. It is also society, and it is also the whole culture that is around it. But it is also women who take the towering education, but who we do not see on the labour market in the same way as we see men.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165315	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165317	Thank you. Well, cultural change sounds a little bit like it's something we let time about... that culture has to change over time. But does the rapporteur recognise, and this is my question, that diversity in management leads to better decisions than if there are a number of people who are similar to each other at gender and age? Does the rapporteur not recognise that better decisions will then be taken and that it will be better on the bottom line if management is diverse and has greater diversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165356	Yes, I accept that, for there are countless reports and studies that show that. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I just do not recognise that diversity is only about gender. Diversity is also age, ethnicity, background, educational background and much more. So the premise that it is only about gender is not accepted, but diversity is, of course, always a strength, and so it is also in managements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165427	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165448	Thank you for that, President. This resolution is about increasing the proportion of the under-represented sex in the top management bodies of private companies. I would like to start by saying that, in the Danish People's Party, we have of course also talked a little about it in relation to who was best placed to take this resolution. Then we found out was Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. But as the most suitable person to have this motion for a resolution, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, is ill, you have to thank me as a replacement. That is why I would also like to refer a discussion on it to the fact that you may take it with Mrs Karina Adsbøl in committee when she returns. But having said that, I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party have such an attitude that it must be so that it is the most suitable that the companies employ in the management, wherever it is. Whether it is a man or a woman, we do not care so much if it is the most suitable in the management structure that should be in the company. I really don't care if it was most women who were in management if it was the most suitable. They are in many areas. I know many women who are skilled and can easily be involved in the management structure, but I also know many women who say no. They do not want to do so; they want to set different priorities than men do in this regard. That is something that needs to be taken into account. But as a starting point, they must be the most suitable. But this requires, as we say, that women are looking for those jobs and that they are ready to take the jobs in the management and take the consequences that are being held in a leadership in this regard. I do not think that legislation on this is going to achieve much at this stage; I think there is more to be achieved by dialogue with companies in companies about how they put together management. There is nothing at all to be achieved by punishing them, but that is not what Radicals want either. This has nothing to do with punishment, but one would have liked to have looked at how to promote the possibility of getting more women into the governing bodies of companies. That is, of course, reasonable, but whether it should be done by legislation or by how and how, I shall leave it unsaid. All I know is that when you look at how a company works, there is no doubt that if you have a versatile management, it works better than if it is very monotonously managed. There is no doubt about that. There are also more and more companies looking at how to achieve versatile management. However, as I have said, it requires that women are also ready to look for those jobs. And you shouldn't hire and engage someone to the management just because they have a certain sex, and that's whether it's a man or a woman. It must be the case that they can carry out the task and that they can carry out the tasks assigned to them. It is, after all, the individual who assesses whether he or she is capable of doing so. But I will not say anything about where the Danish People's Party is holding the resolution, but leave it to Mrs Karina Adsbøl in the committee work when she comes back from her illness. It's only short-term, so she's back when it's going to be dealt with in committee at least at the end of the week, I guess she's back again. But I think that is where we stand at the moment. Then, of course, Mrs Karina Adsbøl is also ready to participate if there are any negotiations on this. The minister said a little about the possibility of someone coming, and Mrs Adsbøl will of course also be ready to attend. That is why I am not going to start saying anything that could bother her in her future work on this motion for a resolution and on what the Minister might want to negotiate, but leave it quite open to her to take decisions when she is back in the work that is to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165927	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then he must bring a good recovery to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Bent Bøgsted She'll be back soon). She'll be back soon. That's good. The next rapporteur I should like to welcome is Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526165938	Thank you. It will come as no surprise that in the SF we are happy with this resolution we are discussing today and we are of course supporting it. I myself have been proposing similar initiatives last year and I really hope that we can get this proposal through with the Minister. Unfortunately, that does not sound like it, but then I look forward to the negotiations and I hope that the starting point will be inspired by this, because I think it is actually a very good proposal. Unfortunately, it is a widespread myth that Denmark has the lead when it comes to equality between men and women. Compared with our Nordic neighbours and at European level, we are lagging behind, not least when it comes to women in management. Although the largest Danish companies have been required since 2012 to draw up targets and policies for the gender composition of their management, there is still far too little diversity in the management channels and in the boardrooms. In fact, half of the largest Danish companies do not have a single woman on their board, and out of a total of 151,000 registered board posts in this country, only 19% are occupied by a woman. We see the same picture in the management, where only 15%. women. Those numbers I think are pretty embarrassing! As the figures show it clearly, the ongoing evaluations of the system of target figures tell the same story. The measures we had introduced in 2012 are simply not effective enough, and we therefore welcome the initiatives of the SF here in the proposal very much. We would like to see how we can make the scheme more effective, binding and transparent, and we would also very much like to include more companies in the scheme. Finally, we believe that the publication of target figures, as we have already proposed, can be a motivating factor for companies' work on equal opportunities, and at the same time it can provide more transparency for future employees and customers in relation to how companies manage on equality and diversity. In this way, it can become a competitive parameter for enterprises in line with other CSR actions such as taking into account the environment and climate and social conditions and working conditions. This is something worth testing before we take action with sanctions such as the one we are discussing here. fines. In the SF we believe in the system of target numbers and policies, but it is also very clear that the rules need to be tightened and updated as proposed here. Having said that, we are also very aware in the SF that there are basic structures that are involved. This is true, for example. the lack of fatherhood, which is of enormous importance for the inequality we see in the labour market in general, and not least in the senior management battles. That is why we are looking forward to being able to move in this area soon, hopefully, so that we can eradicate one of the greatest knots for equality that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170227	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170232	I would just like to sign for a very good rapporteur's speech and also for the support for the proposal. I think that the speech was very similar to the one made by the Minister and the one made by the Socialist rapporteur, but I am much happier about the conclusion here, so thank you for your support for the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170259	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170301	The next question I would like to give the floor to is: Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170303	Thank you. I want to talk about the good life, and not just the equal life. Because I understand from the feminists here in Denmark, including Mrs Astrid Carøe, that the goal is that women as much as men take top positions in business and enter the boards of companies, and the prerequisite for that is that women as much as men give up time with children, time with the family, quality time that is not working time. And I do not understand why so many feminists believe that the good life for more women is to do more like men, that is, that women should do more like men with all the waivers it involves. Excuse me, but it's us men it's wrong with. After all, it's us men who give priority to work over the family they're wrong about. We're the ones who regret it on the deathbed. Why is it a goal for feminists that women, in some cases even against their will, should be forced to behave as men and give priority to careers over families, because that is one of the reasons for the lack of equality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170407	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170408	Yes, it is quite true that I am one of the feminists in Denmark, but I believe in return there is something, sir. Alex Vanopslagh has misunderstood. I do not have the intention that women who do not want to enter the board of directors, or who do not want to work much, should do so. I have an intention that you have equal opportunities in this country, even if you are a woman. And there we can just see today that because we have these structures with you choosing those you know or those who look like you when you have to fill a management post, it is men who are elected. And that's what we're gonna do about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170442	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170445	Can the rapporteur give a single concrete example of a woman who has been elected to a top position in Denmark because she was a woman? Just one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170455	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170457	No, I cannot do that on a stand-by basis, but we can see from the figures that women do not have the same opportunities, and we can look at studies that show that you choose those who look like you. And the people on the board today are men. That is what we are going to do about this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170459	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170515	Is it only in management channels that there should be quotas? After all, there are many professions where there is a large over-representation of women. Should there now also be quotas for how many men are going in there? Is it not more a matter of snobbery in this case, in relation to the fact that you are going to squander seats on the board of directors, and when it comes to getting seats elsewhere, that is not the case? Or is it the SF's view that we should have quotas in all sectors, or is it only in the management channels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170544	I think there's something here too, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen has misunderstood. We are not talking about quotas in this proposal. We are talking about companies themselves setting targets for how to improve diversity. No, we should not have quotas in all walks of life. But I hope, as rapporteur for equal opportunities, that at some point we can also have a talk about how to do away with the very gender-separated educational choices that are in Denmark today. There are many more men in one industry and many more women in another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170613	[Sound emission]... it is because of the free choice; then it is because there are some men who choose some education and some women who choose other education. And let me just quote what SF's former rapporteur said about this: "We have always thought that quotas are a necessary tool for achieving a broad representation of gender. So it's SF's opinion that we need quotas to achieve this. So I'm just gonna ask you, does this only apply to the board of directors? Or does this also apply to those professions where there are many women? Should the women there also be told: No, you know what, woman, you can't get the job a man needs because we have to meet these quotas? Otherwise, it is pure discrimination that we hear from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170648	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170650	There are more and more women who are receiving long higher education today, who are taking the courses that typically provide access to management channels, and yet we see no difference. That is why initiatives like this are important. I can see that there will not be broad political support for quotas, so we support this proposal today and that we will have a fight with the very gender-separated education choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170712	There is one more brief comment, and that is from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170718	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur: now that Danish women are taking very high education, and also higher than men, what does the rapporteur think is the reason why they do not use those courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170739	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170740	That is a very good question, because that is what is so weird, that is to say, we see that women have now overtaken men, compared to how many people take long higher education, and yet it does not appear in management positions. I think it is precisely because of some of these invisible structures that we have talked about a great deal today, and that is why this motion for a resolution can help it along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170759	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170801	So the rapporteur only thinks that it is the employers who are keeping these women away from it, despite the fact that they have the competences? What about time? I said in my rapporteur's speech that women do not spend as much time on the labour market as men do. Is that a problem? Are there other areas where SF can see that you can turn on some other handles besides only having to punish companies with extra administrative burdens or with quotas that SF would like to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170834	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170835	I think it is important to stress that this is not an administrative issue, at least not the part about publicising the target figures, because the companies are already making these target figures, and they have been doing so for eight years now. I think, as the rapporteur himself said earlier, that this earmarked maternity for fathers is an extremely important tool for achieving more equality in the labour market, and we must have a look at that. In SF we have proposed 3 months earmarked maternity leave for each parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170900	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526170904	Thank you. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's attention to a very specific example, namely Aarhus University, which has introduced the requirement that both women and men should be included in the candidate area for a position. And I think that sounds very reasonable in itself, but it also means that in view of the situation we are in now, with the corona crisis and so on. My question to the rapporteur is really whether the rapporteur does not see that there can be a problem in that, if we are not based on the talent, but on gender, we can face a very, very serious situation quite specifically with Aarhus University.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171007	I think it is very good that Aarhus University ensures that there are candidates of both sexes when they occupy a position. And it is important to stress that they have not said that you should hire a woman; they simply say that there must be an opportunity, there must be a candidate, so that you have searched all the possibilities. I think it is extremely important that we have open recruitment processes in general at these posts. A lot of board posts are occupied without it being publicly posted. This is another measure that we could also discuss in the forthcoming negotiations, i.e. whether it should be said that board posts should be publicly posted like many other posts, because they will not be today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171040	Is there a follow-up question? You'd better get in there, but here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171042	I am actually just curious when the rapporteur is satisfied. Do we need a 50-50 distribution, no matter where we are in society? Is that where the rapporteur will be satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171101	Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171102	No, I am satisfied when we see that one is not elected on the basis of one's gender, but is elected on the basis of one's qualifications • that everyone has equal opportunities. It's just not like that today. Today you are elected on the basis of gender and women are elected from. It shows studies, and that is why we would like this resolution to be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171121	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171130	Thank you. And thank you to the Radical Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. Issues of representation and special representation in powerful and influential spaces are something that is important to us in the Enhedslisten. That is why we also feel it is necessary to tighten up the rules on target numbers and policies for the proportion of the under-represented sex in the top management bodies of private companies. For although there are fine intentions in our current law of 2012, we can see that it has had virtually no practical effect. The proportion of women on board has stood still since 2014, and among the 1,000 largest companies in the country only 75 of the companies have a woman at the helm. There is certainly a need to tighten up because it is problematic when large groups of the population are kept out of the areas where important decisions are taken. It deprives women and other minorities of the opportunity to benefit from the influence and economic benefits of a top position in business. And it helps maintain the notion that a leader is always a man. We know from studies of power and elite in Denmark that the country's most powerful has much more than just gender in common. Denmark's business leaders are predominantly middle-aged white men with Djøf courses, who live on the richest side of the Lyngby motorway. They are similar to each other on more than one parameter, and this is due to the well-known and well-written phenomenon of Rip, Rap and Rup, which, in its simplicity, refers to the fact that when leaders have to choose their successors or new management colleagues, they choose those who are similar to themselves. Former Minister for Business and Industry, Brian Mikkelsen, has also realised this. And the kind of unconscious bias expressed by Rip, Rap and Rup effects is one of the most well documented phenomena in social science. This is unfair because some people are kept out, not on the basis of qualifications or competences, but on account of their gender. And we don't usually accept that in Denmark. In fact, in the Enhedslisten, we would like the rules to be tightened up more than what is being proposed with this motion for a resolution. And that is why I am pleased to hear that there is courage to go further. We would like companies not only to be obliged to set targets and policies, but also to actually improve their representation in the senior management battles. But they are not, and that is why it does not actually have any consequences to achieve its targets. And, in fact, if we do not set targets or formulate policies, it has hardly any consequences either, in other words, it does not comply with the law as it stands today, because the fines and sanctions that exist today are virtually not being applied. The authors of the motion also point out this in their comments, and we are very much in agreement and concerned about this problem, and we will not be able to accept it either. However, I cannot help noting to take this opportunity to stress that if we really have to put an end to the inequality that characterizes our labour market, there is one particular place we need to take action and, as many people have also said, it cannot stand alone and that is the maternity leave. The unequal distribution of the bartle draws threads to unequal pay as well as to women's ability to make a career in private business. I therefore hope, and I am quite sure, that the supporters of this proposal will also help to ensure the equality of parental rights with regard to maternity. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171520	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are also a few brief comments to make to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171528	Thank you. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should not have similar targets for people who neither identify themselves as men nor women but identify themselves as having a third sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171545	Does the questioner think that this should be in relation to the target of 40 per cent or 50 per cent representation, or what does the questioner think?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171553	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171555	I am thinking of this, in relation to the fact that there should be just some target figures, that is, whether, if there are 2% identifying themselves as some gender that is not male or female, then in companies too there should be some target figures or policies to achieve 2% representation of the third sex in the management of their businesses, or whether it has narrowed down to men and women only. And I would like it to be justified if you do not want there to be targets and policies for people who identify themselves as neither male nor female.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171624	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171626	I think it is quite wild that the rapporteur reduces half the world's population in this way. More than half the world's population are women. But yes, we support the need to make general efforts in order to get minorities better represented, and in the same way we also support policies to ensure that in jobs there are people who, for example, are able to do so. There is a disability and we generally create a more inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171657	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171701	My first question concerns how many genders the Enhedslisten thinks there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171710	I don't know. I don't know. I don't think Enhedslisten has a adopted policy on how many genders there are. It would be a little strange to have to have a policy on. We know it can be different from how you're born or how you feel. That we as a party should go in and define those things, I would think was quite strange. So I assume that we have a policy of supporting it, but not a policy of dragging a gender down on people's heads. I sure as hell hope New Citizens don't have that, if I'm to be honest. But, of course, it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171753	Now it's like I don't quite know how to define whether it's a swear word or not. Victoria Velasquez Sorry. Lars Boje Mathisen. It's okay. ) My son says it's not a swear word. But at any rate, it is the case that now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen a follow-up remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171807	Thank you. But I assume that there are more than two genders, and that is why it is terribly discriminatory when you set it up, so that there should be a certain percentage of men and a certain percentage of women. This is terribly discriminatory for all the different sexes. On Facebook you can choose from 50 different genders, and now Enhedslisten and others say you have to choose that there should be so many men and so many women. Well, what about all the others? It is therefore terribly discriminatory that they should be excluded completely and that they should not have the same rights as women who are one sex, but what about all the other genders? Don't they have rights, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171842	As I also said to previous rapporteurs, I am looking at how we are creating a more diverse working life and business. What is absolutely crucial when you look at society right now, and I hope New Citizens also acknowledge this, is that the vast majority profess to be either women or men. The fact that the rapporteur does not want to take a step in the right direction, which concerns half of the Danish population, seems to me to be quite wild, and then even to take some minorities hostage, in that we should not be able to promote equality here, I think is actually quite wild too. So if the rapporteur were actually interested in helping minorities, I would say: let us look at it, but the other thing I do not really think is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171927	The next rapporteur, who would like a brief comment, is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526171932	Thank you. Like the SF rapporteur, I would just like to sign for a good speech and for the support for the motion for a resolution. While I am standing here, however, a question arises because the rapporteur mentioned that we were ready to go further than was proposed in the resolution. So it was really just a curiosity to see if it is real quotas that are in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172002	That's not what I had in mind. If the rapporteur has any ideas about this, we would of course like to discuss it, but it is more about how we ensure that the target figures are actually complied with. For one thing is to get the figures, but when a lot of people do not live up to them and there has been no consequence by not having the target figures, then the law is just not being followed as the intention is. So it is really about the fact that it cannot stand alone, but what we can do to ensure that it actually succeeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172029	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172031	Thank you for that answer, because the intention here is precisely that this must be the step ahead of quotas, and the way it should, as it should, be effective is, among other things. This publication. However, once again, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur for his support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172052	I also believe that it is quite right to have a public debate on how to organise as a management and that one also looks at the leadership skills and qualifications of women and encourages them to seek a position or to be a partner or something else. I think that is also part of it. I believe that this means something, just as we now see it in the debate on tax havens, where publication also creates a great deal of debate and helps to push things forward. So I think the rapporteur is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172123	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172127	Thank you very much. I must admit that I was somewhat confused in the debate that was about how the rapporteur understands diversity and diversity. There were some questions. I would really like to know whether diversity and diversity, the concept that the rapporteur himself chose to use, are only about gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172151	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172152	Perhaps the rapporteur was not present. I also mentioned a few things, such as: disability as one of the examples. There's also your ethnic background. There can be a lot of different things involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172206	Thank you very much. Then I have two questions for the rapporteur. One is: do you also want target numbers for the various minority groups defined by disability or ethnicity? The second question is that the rapporteur said that these were not real quotas that they pursued in the Enhedslisten, and then I would like to hear something about the sanctions that were mentioned: what does the rapporteur think should be the necessary sanction if the targets are not met?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172241	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172243	Actually, I just think it would be nice if the law, as it is today, were observed. That is what I appeal to. In relation to how we can create a more diverse working life and business, I think there are several things that need to be done. It is not enough just to have the target numbers alone. It is important that we support the various parts, and I think that is actually some of the considerations that were put forward by the rapporteur of the Left. It could be quite nice to see whether we could follow it up with action, because I think that is also the kind of thing we should start with in primary school. And I'm afraid I don't think it's just information. But the thing about getting it in your hands and getting some of the stuff done off, I think it's one of the things, but it can't stand alone either. So I hope the rapporteur will take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172326	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman, is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172339	Thank you. I cannot help but say here that in the Conservative People's Party we were until a few months ago 50-50. It was 50 percent. women and 50%. men. And women actually make up the largest share of the electoral class in us. We have the most female voters. That's a good thing. We certainly would not have said no to our good Member Marcus Knuth because we saw no more were 50-50. Well, it was a little anecdote. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to re-establish binding follow-up targets for private companies in order to ensure a more equal distribution between men and women on board and on management positions. Thank you for the motion for a resolution. There are a lot of good elements in it. Let me make it clear that I would like to see more women on board and management. Indeed, we must exploit the talents that lie there and that are certainly not being exploited well enough. There's an undissolved potential. Unfortunately, we also see this with women entrepreneurs. Just 8%. of new businesses are started by women under 35 years of age, while 27 per cent. is started by men in the same age group. That is why the Conservative People's Party is also tabling a motion for a resolution on a system of maternity leave for self-employed workers. Ideally, we would have liked the self-employed to become part of an overall compulsory maternity scheme which applies to the rest of the labour market. We want to create better financial conditions for people on maternity leave and hope that more young women can start their own business without coercion and quotas. One cannot disagree with the Radical Left that equality is a fundamental Danish value that we must safeguard and fight for. However, I am not one of those who believe that women have very specific competences, but I believe that diversity in management is important and that it produces better results when employees with different educations and experiences and profiles work together. If differences in the distribution between men and women are due to their own choices, it is not a problem of equality, as I see it. We are also in favour of the possibility of posting job positions in managements and boards as a relevant alternative to quotas for boards. It is not a conservative policy to interfere in business relations, but if transparency in posted positions attracts more suitable candidates, I can see the obvious benefits. This will benefit both men and women and thus also ensure that companies have more suitable candidates to choose from. First of all, it's about getting the talents into play. Everything else could equally increase competitiveness while at the same time giving more people the opportunity to make a career. But it must be the business owners themselves who must be able to choose between candidates. Quotas are certainly not the answer. It is basically about incentives, and this incentive can easily be left to the companies themselves. I have great faith in that. Right now we are in a historic crisis with corona. That is why I do not believe that the time has come to impose additional burdens and bureaucracy on our businesses, which is what the proposal is all about. However, we are very happy to enter into discussions with industry and organisations and in the committee. Against this background, therefore, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172720	Thank you. There's a little question from Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172725	Thank you. I regret that, unfortunately, the Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal. Many good things were mentioned. Among other things: the rapporteur referred to a maternity fund for self-employed workers. There I can tell the rapporteur that it was actually some of the things we got through with the financial law negotiations and that we are working on a model, so there is no need for a resolution there. On the other hand, I also heard the rapporteur say that she wanted to make it clear that it was good for more women in management, but how is this to happen if it is not in this way? Is it not at all a political task to ensure more equality? Will the rapporteur only leave it to businesses and a change in culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172819	Thank you. Yeah, we have a lot of faith that business out there can handle this on its own. There is no doubt that we must call for more diversity in management out there, but to make quotas and measures that create burdens and additional administration for our businesses, we simply do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172842	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172845	So there's a lot of faith in the companies. How, then, will the rapporteur explain the state of affairs that has been going on for so many years? The Minister mentioned some of this: a 1.9% increase for women on board boards. over a 3-year period. How, then, can this be explained?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526172913	I cannot explain that alone. I can say so much that there are some structural and cultural conditions that we need to change a little. The upbringing of our children is going all the way. My own daughter is studying engineering, and she may be taking an atypical education for a girl, but actually a lot of girls do. We see many more young women opting for courses which are both long-term courses but which also lead to occupations which may be typically male. So I think it comes all by itself, but going in and imposing quotas and coercion on companies is just not the way forward. However, I believe that the way forward is to address it, encourage companies to do so, look at and influence educational institutions to influence young people to make some other choices and to give them most of all the confidence and belief that they can do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526173016	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Let me just say that it is a great pleasure to sit here in the chair surrounded by acrylic plates. Before entering the Folketing, I produced acrylic sheets at the workplace where I was, and among other things. such as these, but that one should sit as chairman and be protected by acrylic sheets, I had not just seen coming here 18 years later. I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526173045	Fantastic! Women's quotas, yes, it sounds almost like something from agriculture; we could call it heifer quotas. But no, welcome to the feminist hell of violation, also known as Denmark anno 2020, the country where the Radical Left, on behalf of the eternally violated feminists, rushes around and invents problems that do not exist in reality. These are problems which are only cultivated and are found in the self-consciousness of this group of self-esteem ministers, who, through squeezing, violations and the perpetual hatred of men and masculinity in general, have unfortunately now been tragically planted the idea that the reason why they do not get the jobs they point to is yes, really guessed, men. Apparently, according to these insulting feminists, we men have such a deep-seated fear of these women that we are deliberately trying to avoid giving them powerful positions. Indeed, we fear them so much that we are willing to run businesses worse than what is possible just to avoid women in positions. I've rarely heard anything so foolish. And now these feminists are trying to convince people in this Parliament that these men and the men in this parliament should of course be ashamed. They should be ashamed of their sex and their behavior and immediately give feminists everything they point to. Then I must not say to all the feminists on behalf of a great many men out there: we do not hate women; on the contrary, we love them, all kinds, yes, even feminists we love. But, dear feminists, stop crying. It's deeply stressful and terribly annoying to listen to, and you don't understand us men at all, because we don't fear women. We don't see them as threats. We see them as wise and self-confident ambitious women. We love working with them, and we see them in no way as the weak sex. Yes, we actually respect them so much that we could never dream of hiring them based on their gender. But the feminists will, for they cannot stand the idea of strong women. And this is where the real wretched explanation lies, because they fear and hate these strong women so much that they do not cloud any means whatsoever to compensate for their lack of self-esteem. And if that means depriving some other women of the experience of genuine success and being recognized for their competences and not their gender, it is a small but acceptable price in the eyes of feminists • then they can learn! So thank you to all the strong women out there. Thank you for being here, thank you for making our lives better. And now I'm looking at the men in here: shouldn't we take and acknowledge these women for their skills and their diligence instead of their gender? This is awfully prejudiced and discriminatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526173406	Thank you. I am not assuming that it was our honourable colleagues on the chairs who the rapporteur felt were seriously offended feminists, for they have proved their worth. It's just like that, so we'll get it with us. There are no questions. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who came up quickly. I was the one who was a little too quick to put me down. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526173433	If I were behind protective plexiglas, which I myself helped build when I was working in concrete Denmark, my attention would also be focused on everything but just a colleague who has to take the floor as the last in line. So I fully understand the President in this case. Enough about the good stuff, 'cause now we're gonna have to talk sex numbers. I think that this is once again the expression of such a gallows feminism which is raging again, I had almost said, and which is at stake, and in this case it is that you want to press, nudge and even in some cases force women to take in some cases against their will to accept some top positions that they do not want to have, or force some companies to hire some they do not want, just because they have a certain gender. We are opposed to this kind of gender bureaucracy in the Liberal Alliance because it is difficult and it is crazy and it neither adds any value to equality nor to a single company. On the contrary, it is a step backwards in terms of equality that we are going to have to deal with gender in employment rather than disregarding gender. As I mentioned earlier, I do not understand this modern feminist approach that more women should behave like men, that more women, like men, should go for some top positions and board posts, and that ultimately they should end up opting out of time with their children, with their family, with their spare time and hard work on their lives, prioritizing their careers over the other things and lying on their deathbed and regretting that they had not spent more time with their children and their loved ones and on something that was not work. Because that is one of the reasons why men are more at the top of business than women are, that is, because men are crazy enough to make such priorities. And there I have to say that it is us men who are wrong about it, it is not women, and I cannot understand why feminists think that the good life is that women should be pressured to work more and give priority to career over family and other things. It must also be said that all this talk of invisible social structures oppressing women is nonsense, because what research shows is that the more equal a country is in relation to opportunities, the greater the differences in career choices, because once the choice is free, the differences are expressed, in other words the natural differences. In countries such as Iran and the like, there is a greater degree of equality between men and women in educational choices, because equality is not free, because there is a choice of path, whereas in the Nordic countries, however, differences between the sexes, in terms of career and education, are greater than in many countries that are not free, because men and women are on average different, which is not wrong. But with this kind of policy, you want to fight free elections and you fight against equality, and you introduce bureaucracy for companies, and it is a setback for equality that you cross gender rather than just look at competences. After all, it is now 200 years since we had a fight with the stags community, where we said that it is not about whether you belong to the congregation, the common people or the peasantry or the nobility, no, no, no, everyone has the same rights, and then men and women have the same rights in democracy because you do not have to deal with gender. But that's what you do with this kind of policy where you say sex is more important than merit. It is, after all, a step backwards for equality to pursue such a policy. Then I must also just say that it is an indissolubly paradox that we want to combat discrimination by using discrimination and discrimination based on gender, and quite theoretically these rules on the equal distribution of women and men in board positions and top positions and the like in business are meaningless, because if we imagine a board of 11 seats, there are only two divisions that will be equal in the sense of the law, and they will be those that have 5 men and 6 women or 6 women and 5 men. If we then imagine that we have to fill this board with the most neutral and random and fair process at all possible, and that doesn't cross gender or anything else at all, i.e. drawing lots, if we pulled lots of who should sit on these boards, we would go through this completely fair and arbitrary process in 55%. of the cases obtaining a board that is not equally divided, for more than half of the times we would extract a board of 7 or more of the same sex. So even in the most gender-neutral process we can possibly imagine, we come up with an unequal result in the sense of the law, and this demonstrates that this idea of these targets is not just an attack on equality and the meritocracy and common sense; it is in fact also an attack on something as basic as mathematics, because the world is also marked by some coincidence, and that is also what this is an attack on. Then I just have to say in connection with this whole discussion that men pay higher wages to men than they do to women, that it is the very same left who claims that capitalism and companies are ultra-profit-maximising and think only of profit and to make money, yet it is the same companies that choose less competent employees and employees that are more expensive because they are men. But it's gonna be a bad business, and this is another thing that doesn't add up. In the Liberal Alliance, we are on the side of liberal, liberal, equal, democratic and enlightened societies, and we are therefore voting against this kind of approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174022	There are about three questions. The first is from Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174025	Feminists are being sniffed from up there. I am glad to take this with pride, and I also invite the male rapporteur, because being a feminist is not just for women; it is about promoting equality and equal opportunities regardless of one's sex. Then the rapporteur talks about freedom and this resolution goes against freedom. I do not think so. On the contrary, it is a question of giving women freedom from their sex. Today they do not have the same opportunities because of their gender, so in this way, where you set some target numbers, so companies will have to look at qualifications, to use the total talent mass and not just 50 per cent. of the talents, one also frees women from always being locked in their genders as those who do not have leadership potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174132	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174136	It will never make sense that you want to give people freedom from their sex by writing into the law, that you have to focus on their gender; it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174148	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174151	Does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur recognise the numerous studies and studies which show that diversity and diversity in management are positively reflected on the bottom line of companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174216	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174219	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I feel like the radical rapporteur: I am somewhat surprised by the way the rapporteur chooses to refer to feminism. As I said, men can also be feminists. It's kind of just a way to look at the possibilities of the sex. But the reason why I am taking the floor is that I noticed that rapporteur Alex Vanopslagh repeatedly talks about this, that it is almost the men who make the stupid choices by taking top positions and that women are perhaps in fact the smartest, that they do not seek positions, etc., and the rapporteur says that one can imagine that the alternative is to draw lots. But there are other ways you could do this. In Germany, it has been decided in some states to say that when you look up top posts, you actually ask people not to write their genders and their age etc. It has in itself shown that the most qualified people are actually chosen. So gender actually plays a role here too. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur: what would the rapporteur say about the possibility that we might not necessarily have to do this as legislation, because I think that there I might slightly share the rapporteur's opinion on how much the Folketing should interfere in, but could it not be seen as an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174345	I believe that we can all feel the spirit of time and the waves flowing through society, including those I would call neo-feminist. Let us use that expression, for feminism in the old days was somewhere gender equality and equality before the law and the same rights for all. That is no longer what this is all about today. But we can all feel that wave, and I could imagine that, as part of that wave on our own, more and more companies will see to it that the application processes are in the way described by the rapporteur, and that is not something I am going to stand in the way of. I find this exciting, but, as the rapporteur suggests, when you do so imposed on all companies, you start to tell companies that as a politician at Christiansborg you know better how to run recruitment processes, and I do not imagine that I am the all-knowing oracle that can define it in a law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174438	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174440	So what I hear is that the rapporteur recognises that it could be a real opportunity, so that it is not just companies that do what they usually do, because it is now a natural law that it is men who are leaders, but that if you did this you could actually see into a reality where it could be fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174502	I don't think we'll ever get a reality with free methods where it's fifty-fifty. I just don't believe it. It can be seen that in countries in the world where women are the most freed and equal, differences are increasing because they are free to make the choices they want, including free to make the choice that goes against the feminist thinking that women should choose more careers as men do. So I do not think that in a free and enlightened and equal society you will ever get fifty-fifty unless you make use of coercion, but then it is no longer a free or equal society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174536	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174538	The rapporteur himself now mentions drawing lots as an opportunity. I would like to ask whether this is not terribly discriminatory towards those people who are generally just rather unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174552	I tend to speak a little quickly when I make a speech and mess up the words a little, and perhaps that is why has spread the misunderstanding that I suggested that we draw lots for board positions in Denmark. No, I was actually trying to give the hypothetical example that even if you draw lots and it is truly blind to gender; there can be no discrimination by drawing lots you would not get an equal distribution. And this simply illustrates that it is rather strange something to be so focused on equality and to think that it is because of discrimination that there is a difference in the composition of boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174628	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174630	Yeah, unless it's the case, depending on who pulls the numbers out of the bowl, whether it's women or men, it might have an impact on who they pull up; whether they look to one side or the other. There can be many parameters that make you make those choices consciously or unconsciously. But will you not discriminate against people who are generally rather unfortunate if you draw lots?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174649	Now I understand the question... it took a little time for me to catch it. If you draw lots enough times, the statistical probability is that you remain unlucky, very small. So that must be the answer to the question. I'm sorry I wasn't smart enough to catch it in the first place and points for the humor!
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174711	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526174723	Thank you very much. Equality is an important value for the Radical Left, it is an important value in Denmark, and equality must prevail at all levels of society, including in the management channels, in the boards and in the management posts. A number of studies have been carried out to demonstrate that men and women's qualifications are assessed differently by both sexes. The consequence is that men are better assessed by both men and women, and there are numerous examples and studies of this. One of them is a Harvard study in which a female entrepreneur presents her business idea and describes her own personal qualifications and competences. This corporate idea is presented with a men's name and a woman's name: John and Jennifer. Both of these business ideas, as you look at them and evaluate them, are actually assessed well, but where you want to cooperate with John, you don't want to cooperate with Jennifer, and this is despite the fact that there is the same thing in the business idea that is being presented. For the assessment of John is that he is a dynamic and strong leader, but the assessment of Jennifer is that she is actually quite dominant and annoying. So you should not come here and tell me that different genders are not seen differently, and if you really think that it is qualifications and the good ideas that should mean the most, you should also be ready for, among other things. to take an initiative which this motion for a resolution calls for. Because what is being proposed is that we get more women in management, and you look at them. It is clear from the educational background of women that over the past many years women have overtaken men by the length of their education. So again: don't come here and tell me that the qualifications are not there and don't come here and tell me that the ambitions aren't there, because they are there. And it is very expensive to throw so much money after women's education and then, unbiased or biased, refuse them to take the posts for which they train, among other things. And if you look at the figures, which are also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, you can look at the 1,000 largest companies in Denmark and the executive directors. 75 of them have a female CEO and that was 75 and not 75%. 75 out of 1,000 are far too few. One of the measures proposed in the motion for a resolution is more openness, the creation of a public database so that everyone can go in at any time and see what is going on with the targets of the various companies and their fulfilment. In a study carried out by the Institute for Human Rights, 21 out of 36 companies surveyed have said that this openness and benchmarking, where they can keep themselves up against other companies, would actually be useful in relation to a more equal distribution of the sexes in the management battles. That means, of course, that we in the business world are ready to look at equality as a competitive parameter, and that is also how I think we can see it. Just as industry has at last seen the light in relation to the green transition, I also see a business sector that is progressive in terms of the gender agenda, and I think that this is about gender equality as a competitive parameter both for business and indeed for the many young people who come out of the educational institutions. They want to know whether companies care about diversity and equality. A study of the financial sector shows that, if you look at the employees, there is a relatively equal distribution of men and women at employee level, but as you quietly move up in management layers, it is increasingly thinning women. Then you ask in this study: Well, is it the family that is the barrier, or is it because the ambitions of leadership are not there? But there is a similar response from both men and women, and this confirms to me that, biased or unbiased, there is at least a bias in giving women the opportunity to get leadership positions and that women are not considered to have leadership potential to the same extent as men. Today's debate has run off in quite so many directions, I must say some of them relevant, and others less relevant. We have affected maternity, education and the gender-based labour market. That seems to me to have been quite relevant discussions since, for the first time, I would say, we have somehow moved the debate on equality into the Parliamentary Assembly. And these are some discussions that we must continue to take and that the Radical Left will also push for, because maternity in particular is something that is moving on the gender agenda. But then we have also talked about feminism and who is feminist and who is not. As I mentioned to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I am happy to take it on board, even though I suddenly received a label both from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and from Mr Liberal Alliance. Lars Boje Mathiesen was a label that I hadn't invited to, but all of a sudden I got that stamp anyway, but in this case I really want to say thank you for that. Well, I guess you were also called a defamation device, but let's just leave it at that. In relation to equality in the management battles, I would actually go so far as to say that when I just want to end by saying thank you for the debate, and thank you to SF and Enhedslisten for supporting the resolution. I can only regret that, despite commendable words, social democracy ends up in the conclusion that we are not backing it, but I look forward to the further discussions to which the Minister has also invited us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175510	Thank you. So far, there are two who want to ask questions to which the rapporteur may be allowed to answer before we move on to the next proposal. The first is Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175526	Thank you very much. Thank you again to the rapporteur and thank you for the debate. This is an important debate in which we would very much like to enter, and also an area we would like to improve. We do, however, miss the Radicals in another area and wish they were there too when we fought for women to enter the labour market, that is, the group of women who are excluded from the labour market, not only from senior positions, but from just entering the labour market and earning their own money. We often miss the Radicals in this area, and we hope that the Radicals will join in that fight too. However, with regard to this, I have just one question for the rapporteur: does the rapporteur recognise that there is a major imbalance between gender choices not only in sectors but also in sectors, i.e. that there are very many women in public and very many men in private?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175631	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175633	Thank you. In relation to the first part of helping women into the labour market in general, and not only in the management battles, I am sorry that Mrs Fatma Øktem lacks the Radical Left on that agenda, because being on the labour market in such a way is an important thing that we naturally warmly support. It is important for your children that they have it as a model. We would be very happy to do so. Then there is the issue of the gender-separated labour market and the choice of education, and indeed, Mrs Fatma Øktem is so right that we choose differently as it stands today. However, I believe that if we also put some targets and policies down on the educational institutions, it will benefit the agenda in terms of getting more men into care and more women into care, for example. the scientific studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175741	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175744	Thank you very much. Then I look forward to another vote, one more party that will fight for ethnic minority women who are not allowed to enter the labour market for their spouses to do so. Finally, I should like to hear what I have to say, because now I have no doubt about it: would the rapporteur also like to have target numbers in the educational institutions, so that there are quotas for different genders, that should also apply in the education system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175814	These are not quotas, I would like to make it clear, either in this resolution or in relation to what I mentioned. I am in a state of brainstorming over a discussion which I could understand at Mrs Fatma Øktem also concerns the Left, precisely this: there is a gender aspect in relation to which education is chosen, and hence also which different sectors the different sexes enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175844	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175846	Thank you. Now I was talking about the perpetually abusive feminists, but unless the rapporteur thinks that she belongs to that group, she should not feel affected. But let's just leave it alone. The culprits belong to an industry, an area in which there are far more men, and the difference is actually greater than the one mentioned by the rapporteur in the management channels. Why don't we start there? Let us start there by getting quotas there and ensuring that there is complete equality there. If it has a beneficial effect, if it works, then we can spread it out. So let's start with the sewer cleaners... what does the rapporteur say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526175931	I am prepared to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of One might well also concentrate on diversity and more women as sewer cleaners, as well as on management battles. May I also make it clear that there are still no quotas here. It is a question of companies setting target figures and the target figures being followed up when they are achieved. At the same time, these target figures are also submitted to a register... it could be in the Danish Business Authority... so that everyone has access to the target figures so that they are public for everyone. That is what the resolution is about; it is not quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180022	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180024	No, we in New Citizens do not think that quotas are good for anything other than when we have to split up Friday sweets for the kids. But the Enhedslisten knows that we are in favour of quotas and the SF is in favour of quotas, so perhaps they could make a proposal that there should be quotas in the sewer cleaning industry. Now we have heard from the rapporteur that this will be supported, because that is what the rapporteur said: yes, if such a proposal is put forward, we will actually support it on the part of the Radical Left. So it is not true that we are not in favour of quotas. It has just been said that if such a proposal is made for quotas in the sewage cleaning industry, then it will actually be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180055	Should we not stick to the motion for a resolution here, because I think we are moving a little away from the motion for a resolution? But now it is the rapporteur's turn to respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180107	So, what I heard Lars Boje Mathiesen say was: why not start somewhere else than with the management battles as in the motion for a resolution here? And I'm saying it's not a either or. We can start anywhere. Now this is about getting more women on the board of directors, on the management floors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180130	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180132	Thank you. I just want to start by signing for the motion for a resolution. It is very good to have a debate on how to ensure more equality in the labour market. I have to hear: if we continue to see that companies fail to meet the targets they actually set themselves, or that some companies even fail to put into effect the targets they are obliged to do, does the Radical Left think that some of these sanctions, which are actually already provided for in the law, can be applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180206	In other words, it does not make much sense to have sanctions that are not used when the law is violated, just as it does not make much sense to have legislation that is not enforced. For me and for the Radical Left, this additional step in legislation on target numbers is in fact also an attempt to ensure that something actually happens in this area, but also that legislation is being enforced. We certainly believe that this should be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180240	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180241	Thank you. Then I just want to seize the opportunity to unravel a misunderstanding here in the end. The rapporteur says she is a feminist. Then I would just like to know whether the rapporteur hates men and strong women or whether the rapporteur also sees this as part of the definition of a feminist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180259	Thank you for the question. I love men, I love women, I love all genders, and it's okay to be applauded and cheered and whatever feels like. And a feminist can be both male and female or a third sex. So it is certainly an open invitation that men too must define themselves as feminists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180323	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180326	Thanks for the open invitation. I'll do that. I would like to return to this issue of sewage cleaners, because I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur finds it problematic that so many men choose to become sewer cleaners and that so few women have a desire, a will and an interest in the sewer cleaning industry. My ability to comprehend may be a little limited, I admit it, but it goes beyond my comprehension, why it is a problem that more men than women want to be sewer cleaners. However, I would like to try to learn more about the view of the rapporteur in relation to the lack of equality in the sewer cleaning industry. What is the problem with the unequal distribution of the sexes in the sewage cleaning industry? Is the problem primarily that too many men want to become sewer cleaners, or is the problem primarily that too few women want to become sewer cleaners? Or is both an equal problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180429	I see the sewer cleaning industry in this context and in the context of this motion for a resolution as a metaphor for a distortion that is in the labour market elsewhere than in the management battles. And for me and for the Radical Left, if there are women who have qualifications and ambitions to become sewer cleaners but cannot be, because of their gender, and their potential as a sewage cleaner is not seen as equal to that of men, then that is problematic. So this isn't about forcing anything down on either men or women. It is about where qualifications and ambitions are present that one is not overlooked because of one's gender.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180526	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180528	I think that, where the rapporteur and I agree, there is, of course, that when you look at the statistics and the results, there is not complete success between men and women when it comes to educational choices and career choices and also positions at the top of the business world. We can't disagree on that, because that's just the way it is. Where the disagreement arises is in relation to: Why is that so? And my claim is: it is because men and women choose differently on average, exemplified by the sewer cleaning industry, and where the rapporteur's and other rapporteurs' claim is that if there is that difference, it can only be due to discrimination. It must be because otherwise it would be fifty-fifty. But does it not impress the rapporteur that a single example cannot be found in Denmark, in the public domain, of a woman who has been demonstrably excluded from a particular job solely on the basis of her sex? I mean, doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180618	What really impresses me is the study on the financial sector, which I referred to, where the number of women is thinned out, the higher the levels of management you come up with. But when you ask men as well as women whether the ambitions are there and when you look at the qualifications, those things are there. I am impressed by the fact that, after all, there is not just a surplus but an extremely high overweight of men sitting on those posts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180650	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh won't get any more questions. I would like to thank the rapporteur with one comment: we finally brought up one of the most important areas of society that society cannot do without in any way, namely sewage treatment. It is one of the most important subjects in Denmark. This helps to keep Denmark running and working. So in those words, we are done with motion for a resolution No. B 91. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180801	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526180809	One would like to say that now we have to do something quite different, because the resolution we are debating today is from the SF, and it is about the government putting forward by 1 November 2020 a legislative proposal that ensures that no longer payment deadlines than 30 days can be agreed between Danish traders. The aim of the proposal is to stem the trend described by the SF in how large companies use their negotiating position in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises to freeze their payments for a long time. SF points out that it hampers the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and prevents them from making investments and expanding production at the desired pace, and can lead to liquidity challenges and, at worst, bankruptcies. I would like to say that the government shares SF's concern for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular on this point and agrees that unreasonable long payment periods can challenge particularly small and medium-sized enterprises on their liquidity. I do not think it is fair for small and medium-sized enterprises to be forced into de facto providing free credit to a trading partner because of a weaker negotiating position. It is not in my optics a proper behavior to use an economic advantage in a negotiating situation in that way. However, the challenges of small and medium-sized enterprises with liquidity are a broad and very complex issue. There are several things that can address the liquidity challenges of companies beyond a statutory payment deadline. It can, for example, be done. be an effort towards the culture of payments between enterprises and increased transparency about individual companies' payment practices. In connection with the corona crisis, which has only increased the challenges of liquidity in the companies, the government and the Folketing have stepped in quickly. We have strengthened the liquidity and lending possibilities of e.g. State guarantee schemes, matching financing measures in the Growth Fund and deferment of payment periods for VAT and A tax, as well as the possibility of repayment of the latest VAT payment as a loan. But the corona help packages only address part of the challenges and only in the short run; a solution is still needed to deal with the problem in the long run. SF refers to a report by the European Commission in the motivation for the motion for a resolution. That report points out that it is a large number of factors that determine late payments between companies. The report points out that there is no clear link between statutory short payment periods and when payments are actually made between two private companies. The report also shows that the most central factors are the country's business culture or standard as well as external economic conditions, for example. whether there is economic recovery or a crisis in a society. As a means of changing companies' pay culture, the Commission recommends inter alia: the introduction of a code of good payment practice that way has also been taken in the UK in 2008 and in Sweden in 2018. Thus, the report does not actually provide evidence that a short fixed payment period has the desired effect in relation to the overall objective, which is a change in the payment culture. In addition, I think that we should be careful, as a starting point, about interventions that restrict the freedom of contract. This can lead to higher prices for small and medium-sized enterprises and ultimately for consumers, and it can weaken the competitiveness of Danish companies internationally. There will therefore be very serious reasons for going that way. Overall, the government's view is that the most appropriate way to go is to find a solution to the problem. We believe that this should be taken care of for the underlying reasons and thus aim to influence the business culture in the area of payments in a more positive direction. Against this background, the Ministry of Industry is in dialogue with industry organisations about a voluntary solution. Only if it turns out not to solve the problem should other solutions be considered, and of course a statutory deadline can be among these. And with these comments, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181316	Yes, and there are four who have questions. The first is sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181322	I do not want to speak. I pressed myself in earlier when I tried to get a third comment on Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181328	We were almost aware of that, but sir. Alex Vanopslagh could have changed his mind during the Minister's speech. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181340	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite seriously wondering why the Social Democrats in the government want and believe something other than the Social Democrats do when they do not. We can find a string of quotes from the Social Democrats' business rapporteur who, together with ■ guess once Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, who is here, spoke to Jyllands-Posten about the quite horrible examples of Danish small and medium-sized enterprises in particular being subjected to very, very severe pressure from the large companies to which they are suppliers of goods, in relation to long-term credits, far beyond what is commonly called good custom and use. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said that the minister at that time, and that was Mr. Brian Mikkelsen was moving at a very low speed compared to ending this problem. In fact, it says literally in the Jyllands-Posten from February last year, quite shortly before the elections: "Therefore, the ministers responsible for the area must get together and call for negotiations..." Those were the words of Mr. Thomas Jensen, who is an excellent colleague of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Why does the Minister of Industry today think anything other than what the Minister of Industry did when he was not in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181501	I can start by confirming that Mr. Thomas Jensen is a very good colleague, whom I very much appreciate. In fact, it is not so different today than it was then. We must try to resolve this problem, which I recognise is there and believe is there for small and medium-sized enterprises that may be affected here. What I am just saying is that I believe that with a voluntary code, which professional organisations may be driving behind and can be established with the support of a broad, broad circle of companies, we can move towards the underlying, which is the business culture in the area of payments. That's why I think we should try that way. It doesn't have to go slow. That's where the speed might be, for my sake, high. And I will also, if it can comfort anyone, pull me together in relation to helping that speed is not low, but that it is high.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181605	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181606	If the Minister is to try to follow up on what the Minister's own party was going to do in the election process, then it is absolutely essential to get it together. It was decided that there should be a political intervention and that payment deadlines should be maximum. 30 days. This is what has been outlined by the Socialist rapporteur on this subject. The Minister also says that these codes have been drawn up, among other things. in Sweden back in 2018. Will the Minister not tell us how many companies have registered throughout Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181646	Yes, it is true that the Social Democratic Party, and it was both before we came into government and after we formed the government, has been very concerned to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises do not get pinched on the whole issue of payment. I am just saying that the possibility of creating a voluntary code here, along with the industry, with a larger and broader connection than the one experienced in Sweden, may be the one that solves the underlying problem. And if that does not solve it, I also see that, of course, the way of legislation is still in the catalogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181723	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181724	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's advice. The Danish People's Party refers to Jyllands-Posten, and that is exactly what I had with me today. When the Minister mentions the code, has he taken into account that in Sweden 37 companies have joined that hat, and here they say that it does not work and that they are now going to resort to other methods?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181753	There is no doubt that if a code is to work, it requires a broad consensus from Danish companies, and that is why, of course, it must also be something that the organisations are effectively driving. I also think it is very clear to myself; I am trying to do that in my speech that if it ends blindly or ends unsatisfactory, where nothing comes out of it, where we do not get moved on the problem, then there are other ways to go and other ways to look down, but I think there is an opportunity to learn from the experiences that are in other countries and then go through this code track. Because I really believe that the government shares the SF's analysis that the liquidity challenge in the small businesses in particular is large and serious, and we need to find a way to deal with it together. We just think that the code can be the first step • perhaps the step that can solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181856	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181859	Thank you. The Minister mentions that we need to have some experience and look at some experience, including from other countries. What does he think about the experience that has been gained in Sweden? Can we not lean on them and think that it would be a way to go? Then the Minister also mentions something about broad support. How long will it take for the Minister to say that there is not the support we want exactly for this proposal? I would like to hear the Minister's advice on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526181929	There is no doubt both good and guaranteed bad experience to gain from other countries, and we must of course take the good and avoid the bad. One of the things that will be important, I think, is that there is broad support for such a code so that it also has a real effect out there. When you have to draw the line in the sand and say that now we are going to do the math board and see whether the effect has been there or not, I am sure we can have a good political discussion on when it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182003	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182005	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. In view of the fact that we have just called for this during the corona crisis, we have seen a dew-fresh study in which over a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have responded, and 5%. In fact, they experience that payment deadlines have become shorter after the call that has been made, but 8%. have experienced that they have stayed longer. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say when he does not want to support this part, but talks about a code, what more the minister thinks it needs to do, in addition to the need for broad support. I am thinking, for example, of: The Danish Occupation has called for this, and it is fairly broad, but not all companies have clearly lived up to it. So what is the Minister thinking more specifically that we can do in relation to the code so that we can do better than what has happened in, for example, the code? Sweden, England etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182102	If you look at the figures and see that, at a time of crisis, which we are and have been in, you can actually succeed in getting 10% with a call. More to experience improvement, I think it indicates that here is a way to walk, even when you are not in a time of crisis. It must be assumed that, in times of crisis, it must be difficult to meet a shorter payment deadline. Then I also recognise that there are numbers drawing in the other direction, which I think I will attribute to the challenges of the crisis for many companies, not least in terms of their liquidity. So I believe that we can succeed in going along this path, and I think that in Danish business there is an interest in making this work if the alternative is to have a statutory payment deadline, and that is really what we are looking into. That is why I think that we can develop the framework for it with the benefit of both political cooperation and to a large extent also have business organisations, i.e. Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv, SMEsdanmark, with very close attention and a robust setup for such a code.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182215	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182217	I'm afraid that's only 5%. and not 10%, but I understand what the Minister means. There is, in fact, a place where we have legislation in this area and where it is still a little difficult for it to be followed, and that is in relation to the public sector. So what do we think the Minister can do when we see that the law obviously cannot stand alone in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises being able to know that their money is being paid fairly so that it is not used as a credit for large companies or for the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182251	The problem is not with the sender or, indeed, it is, because that is where the payment deadline is not dealt with, but it ends up with the recipient, who receives the money too late and thus acts as free bank credit. I look at it in that way that, if the law turns out not to work in an area, then there is a lot to be said for us to get back there and get to the underlying challenges, which I think is the culture of payment in this particular area. And there I just think that a code can do something that legislation cannot, especially if it is strong and if there is a large and robust connection to it from the business world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182336	We shall then thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182352	Thank you for that, President. I would actually like to start by thanking the SF for this motion for a resolution that Parliament should debate the introduction of a ceiling on payment deadlines. This is a useful discussion, but we will not end up agreeing with the solution proposed by the SF. However, it is an important discussion whether unhealthy cultures are developing in the business world in which we all have an interest in working optimally and following the principles based on fair competition. Because it is not fair competition if the big ones piss off the small ones. If they take advantage of a dominant position to obtain benefits that others would not be able to obtain, then it is devastating for the competitive conditions which should be the basis for healthy businesses now and in the future, and that is why this is an important debate that we have here today. Will we then get the best solutions through the legislation? In fact, we do not think so from the Socialist side. In any case, we think it is doubtful whether that is what we should be resorting to in the first place. Plenty of experience shows, and let me just highlight, the labour market, where we pay great tribute to the fact that the parties themselves find solutions and have an extensive degree of self-management • that there is a great deal of commitment and that there is a great deal of respect for each other. Yes, I am aware that the comparison does not last all the way, but we have plenty of examples of involving the parties in the management of conflicts of interest and the rules on this. We would like to help the Minister to look into this matter. It will take a little time, and we think the Minister should have it, so that he can present the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy with one or perhaps more options, so that the big ones do not piss off the small ones and we ensure fair competition. That is why we cannot support B 100 in its current form, but we would like to acknowledge that the SF has raised the discussion and we think it is important to work towards a solution to the problem. Because that is a problem that we recognise is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182633	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182634	Thank you. I think it is a little entertaining that the Socialist rapporteur says that the Minister should have some time, all the while it is a very, very well-known problem that we are standing and having for political debate here in the Folketing today. It is something that has been going on year and day, that is, for many years and thus of course also many days. The Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Thomas Jensen, as recently as February last year, said that the Conservative ministers are not exactly working at a speed which gives a medal or which helps small and medium-sized enterprises in the matter of these long deadlines. Does the Social Democratic Government's rapporteur now think that speed has increased since, after more than a year, we are still lagging behind in relation to this, and this is a challenge inherited from a previous government, which there was a great political desire to follow up with active and committed action?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182741	I think, sir. His Kristian Skibby is missing two things. One is, of course, the count that the Left used prior to the last elections, i.e. that in 14 out of the last 17 years, the Left has supported that the Danish People's Party has had the opportunity to set the agenda for this society and that during that period it failed to find a solution to this urgent problem. Well, then, sir, I guess he's missing it. Hans Kristian Skibby, that the current government in, let us say, well over half of its term of office has been piled up to mitigate the effects of the health crisis in which we are in the middle, and I think it is a little nice to say that the government is not concerned about solving this. In fact, I think it is a little demeaning to do it that way. We would like to extend our hand to working together to find a solution to this, and there Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and Dansk Folkeparti find a place as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182840	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182841	Yes, but we don't need any more hands reaching out. In other words, these hands have struggled in many different directions year and day, and the Socialists themselves have said with their rapporteur in this area that there was a slenderian and why they did not just get started. I've got one more quote from Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen from the same article: We have a law that says that the deadline is 30 days. There are so many who have used it as an elastic band in meter size, so now we must have inscribed that the 30 days are what applies. Quote out. Now it has been a year on top of that period. Then I don't think it's fair that you just start saying it's the corona crisis's fault. Perhaps I think that the rapporteur should put the arguments a little more clearly on the agenda for the next debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526182928	I can just say that the period we are asking the current minister to be given the authority to come to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy with some suggestions that can help solve this problem is for nothing to count on that patience, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby and Dansk Folkeparti have been performing during the 14 years when it was possible to influence this. We have expressed a desire to help solve the problem because it is a problem that we do not have fair competition, and we actually want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183001	Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183003	Thank you. I have exactly the same statements to make here, and I would like to clarify them a little. Orla Sea. Does the rapporteur think that the situation with the long payment periods has changed significantly since the statements made by Mr Beazley? His Kristian Skibby quotes today that we should have been told that it is 30 days that apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183032	No, unfortunately, I don't think the terms have changed. That is also why we are not going to make a solution that we are a little concerned about if we get the support of the parties to manage and support. After all, it is a little important in our society that those who have to live with the conditions that are being set up and the rules of the game that are being created also support the rules of the game. Otherwise we won't make it that far. As the Minister said, there is always an opportunity on the table of the Danish Parliament to resort to legislation. We just want a system where you can see yourself from both sides. When we hear the opinion of the organisations, we hear that they also want an economy based on fair and proper competition. That is what we would like to see achieved, and there we are again handing out our hands to the SF, which the heart can help to debate, which solutions are best before we might resort to legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183134	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183136	These words are also said so well that it is an unequal battle between the small and medium-sized ones against the big ones, where the big ones win each and every time. Why not take the bull by the horns right now by looking at Sweden, where such a code does not work, and then skip the link now and make the final decision to make a payment deadline of 30 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183208	It is sometimes the case that shortcuts can lead to a detour. So I have started from the fact that the Minister has researched and had the Ministry look at how the code has gone with the places where it has been introduced and has pointed out that it could be a way to go in solving this problem. So we would like to try that first or at the same time, and then we would like to hide the big stick in the bag until it turns out that it is not possible to make solutions. In fact, we believe that it is possible to make solutions, because if we listen to the organisations, then their interest is to have a society based on fair and fair competition; that is to be preferred.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183253	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183255	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is unnecessarily harsh on himself and on social democracy. I just think it should be recognised and welcomed that there is one social democracy when you are in opposition and another social democracy when you are in government. I also remember that the last time the Social Democratic Government was in power, corporate tax was lowered and the top tax line raised, and could not the same rationale apply to the government this time? I just think that one should recognise that there is one social democracy when one sits in government and another when one is in opposition. In some areas I actually like the social democracy in government, especially when it comes to corporate tax and top tax limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183326-2	I would like to leave the desire to be harsh with the Social Democratic Party to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, so I shall do so in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183339	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183340	I am happy to do so at times, but it is difficult on a day when the government has made it clear that you might be willing to look at coming out with these frozen holiday money, because then it is difficult to be negative about everything that comes from the government. But there will be a new day tomorrow, as they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183355	I can only say that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen agrees with a growing proportion of the electorate in that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183406	One can then always discuss what view it is, but now we thank the rapporteur. You're welcome, sir. President. ) Then we go to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183420	Today we will be dealing with a motion for a resolution from the SF which will require the government to submit by 1 November 2020 a legislative proposal that ensures that no longer payment deadlines than 30 days can be agreed between Danish companies. In fact, it is a very sympathetic proposal that the SF makes, and I understand the background to it. For the Left, however, the principle of freedom of agreement weighs very heavily, and we believe that traders themselves should negotiate agreements with the least possible interference by the authorities. Think the proposal through properly. If we are to regulate payment deadlines between companies, what else should we also regulate in? When two companies act with each other, this is based on the basic principle of freedom of contract, and this means that companies themselves determine the conditions for a trade, conditions such as: may include price, guarantee period, delivery and payment terms. Thus, contractual terms on payment deadlines are just one of many parameters on which companies can choose to compete. An important negotiating parameter is often the price; the other parameters, such as payment deadlines, are typically negotiated to a lesser extent, but are included in the overall palette. So there are many parameters on which to negotiate and compete, and therefore one might ask whether SF will also legislate on prices. It is also easy to imagine situations in which a small company would like to offer long payment periods in order to make a sale. Perhaps one is not the cheapest because of one's cost structure, or perhaps one cannot deliver as quickly as the competitor, and then it is important that you can use other parameters such as for example. payment deadlines to close the order. In addition, the European Parliament published a report in autumn 2018 which concluded that the average payment time between companies is decreasing in the EU and is now down to 34 days. In Denmark, the average payment time is between companies as low as 20 days according to the 2018 report, and thus it is significantly below the EU average. It therefore seems that things are going the right way. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the negative interest rates fundamentally change the incentive for long payment periods, as companies with profits today pay for having money in the bank. It is therefore now an incentive to shorten payment conditions and it could indicate that the average number of payment days will go even further. With these words, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183706	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183709	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The problem is just that the rapporteur himself refers to one of the reports which shows that it will be a competitive parameter if we are to call it what is not of benefit to small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, we see that this is a cause in relation to the bankruptcies we see; very many of the bankruptcies that are going to be are due to this particular parameter. So wouldn't that be a way to create something reasonable? In other words, the Left has also helped to regulate in other areas where it makes sense, so that we do not needlessly squash some of the small ones. And I'm thinking that this is probably a place where we risk some of the little ones getting stuck and being used as a credit card by the big ones. However, I think there are some points in relation to what the rapporteur says about the extension option here. So would the rapporteur be in favour of looking at what might be for reasonable reasons for a long payment period, but that, as a starting point, it should be within 30 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183820	I said it was one of the negotiating parameters and there are many. I can tell you that right now I have a horse for sale if anyone is interested, and that is the price we are talking about there. It's not when I get this money. This has not been discussed at all. So that is one of many parameters, and it is just fundamental to us that we really do not want to interfere with that. The questioner mentioned earlier a dew-fresh study which showed that it is 5 per cent. of companies that think this is a problem, and 95% do not think it. Wasn't that how it was? Otherwise, there is a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183856	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183856-2	8% experience that people are worse at paying here during the corona crisis, but 5%. experience that it will be within 30 days. So there are 8 per cent who experience a longer period of time, and 5 per cent who experience a shorter period of time in relation to when the money is paid. However, I think that the problem is that the rapporteur, with all due respect, has a disgusting income from somewhere else, and I assume that the sale of the horse is not what is doing whether or not the rapporteur should leave his house and home. The same does not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises that we are talking about. And that is why it is important that we look at: what are the real problems? And that's why this is going to lead to bankruptcy. So is the rapporteur not actually helping small and medium-sized enterprises that get into a mess?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526183941	We are always ready to discuss this issue, but the important thing for us is freedom of agreement. It's so damn important. And it's about a lot of parameters, where the price is what you often go in and look at. In other words, as I said in my speech, it may sometimes be that you say to some people that they will have a longer period of time, so that it actually has something to do with your agreement, your trade, and that it has an impact on that particular company. And we'd rather not get involved in that unless it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184014	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184014-2	Thank you, sir. President. I wasn't exactly prepared for us going into a horse-trading debate, but we're also taking that with us here in the Folketing. I think it's fine with that. I think it might just be worth asking that question. I hope that the rapporteur will also take part in the debate if, after all, there is no difference between retail and retail competition and then selling a single product, a horse or whatever it might be. There's a difference in that compared to having these supply contracts. I don't think there's a lot of people who have supplier contracts to sell a pony. In fact, I think there are a lot of people who have to sell that, for example. jam for Coop. In fact, I think there are multi-faceted supply contracts, and that is what we are trying to get into the debate here today. I fully agree that we should not debate price formation and legislate on it. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. But what we are dealing with here is a matter of competition in which we must try to protect those who are unable to negotiate on an equal basis; where a very, very small supplier has to negotiate with a very, very large customer, who may even be the only customer or one of the few customers the company has at all. There we have to have some legislation. We already have that today. We have an interest rate law which outlines some of these things, but they are based on a principle of necessity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184142-2	I'd like to start off by saying that it's an Icelandic horse and not a pony, and in this world we get very angry if you start calling it a pony. But otherwise I agree with the rapporteur that there is a big difference between the fact that I have a horse for sale hobbyically, and that with big companies and all that. But freedom of agreement is just really important and if we first start to regulate in one of the parameters, where does it stop? We in the Left are very afraid of that, so that is why we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184216	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184218	Yeah, yeah, they say no. But is the rapporteur aware of the fact that there are suppliers to the retail trade who have been forced to deliver with six months' payment deadline? It is reasonable for the same companies to have to pay their VAT every 3 months if they have a turnover of more than 5 million. kr. a year. They have a turnover of more than 50 million. kr., it's every month. So you actually have to settle VAT months before you get your money. There are also many examples of the fact that the goods you put out in the shops are getting too old before they become payable. It could, for example, be done. be rye bread. Does the rapporteur think that it is fair enough that we should not legislate on it at all in order to give some rights to small suppliers of goods to our retail trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184312	I also started my speech by saying that I think it is a sympathetic proposal. I understand where that came from. I understand its origins. The Minister has made a proposal, and we are willing to discuss this in order to see whether there is a real problem or not. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184332	Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184334	Thank you. Of course I am also the animal welfare rapporteur for the SF, but that being said, I am absolutely not on horseback. At the same time, however, I would also like to ask the rapporteur when she says that this is a matter of freedom of agreement: does the rapporteur not also see that this is an unequal fight for the big ones against the small ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184401	The problem lies in these negotiating parameters, basically. Right now, for example, there is one. a lot of yes-thank you offers, where I am sure there are some large companies that go under what they have actually given for the product, at the price they will then sell it to. Are we going to regulate that too? So that's not where we want to go. I think it is a sympathetic suggestion that the SF has made, and I want to say: Get back on the horse, because we can find a solution if we are to stay in that terminology.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184437	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184440	I just don't get it. I don't want to get back on that horse. Having said that, it is not a question here of whether the price should be regulated on a yes or no offer of thanks. This is about small and medium-sized enterprises being given money so that they can make more investments in the society, which I know the rapporteur is also part of more growth and more local jobs. Can the rapporteur not see that if this money comes out to small businesses, it will also flourish in the small communities from which we come?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184525	As I said, this is a very sympathetic proposal. The problem is that we cannot go in and regulate on all sorts of small things or excuses; these are not small things. But we can't go in and regulate on all these parameters. Because if we do, we're going to have a big problem. Because we cannot agree to go in and say to the big supermarkets that they must not offer anything at a price below the purchase price because it is not fair that they do so because they are bigger than some other companies. Yes, there are some companies that are larger, and it may also be that they use that position. But there are also companies that go in and say: You know what, we give you longer time, because you are a little slow to pay, or we are a little more expensive or something, but in return you get a longer time limit to pay. And shouldn't they be allowed to do so if it's one of their trading parameters?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184615	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184622	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's just that the rapporteur keeps referring to something quite different from the price thing. And I am just a little puzzled about it, which is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has come across any small and medium-sized enterprises that have said that they are not interested in getting this through. Or are it the large companies, the large interest groups with which the rapporteur has spoken? Has the rapporteur spoken to any of the micro-enterprises, which are particularly the ones that are hit hard by this? I have spoken to several of them, and I have not heard any of them say that they want to be used as overdraft in this way. So this is just the thing about comparing it to prices and talking about it as such as a competitive parameter. Well, several of them would think it was nice that there came, what is called such a thing, a match, so you actually knew that this is how the rules are. That would give you a sense of security. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can mention just one company that fits the category and that does not think this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184722	I think that Mrs Victoria Velasquez was given an extra question, because questions had already been asked; it went right through here. That's where the horse came in from the beginning. However, the rapporteur must be allowed to reply anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184736	The reason I look at the price so much is that it's the one that means allerallermost in a trade. That is the price: how much is it? as we say where I come from. And we simply do not want to be involved in looking at all these different parameters of competition in order to bring legislation into line. I understand that you think it is safe and good that you know what to do and what not to do. In these times: Wow, there are some people who think it's so nice that there are those things; what you can do and what you can't do and what you can't do. But it's just not in our DNA. We want to give freedom, and that is what this is all about, and this is about freedom of agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184822	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. It was not possible to sell the Icelandic horse here from the platform, unless Mrs Victoria Velasquez was interested since she asked an additional question, which the President was not aware of anyway. But everything can be done from the platform in here in the Folketing, except for the sale of an Icelandic horse. Now we thank the rapporteur, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526184856	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the SF for having today the opportunity to debate the motion for a resolution which the SF has chosen to put forward here in the Folketing. After all, it is a proposal which has had its own time politically here at Christiansborg for quite a number of years, and changing rapporteurs have shown great interest in improving working conditions for the small and medium-sized Danish suppliers in particular. This will not happen unless there is a majority in favour of this resolution. We will then not see the improved competitive situation, unfortunately, and of course we are saddened by this in the Danish People's Party, when we can see that it is especially small and medium-sized enterprises that are experiencing a very, very unequal competitive situation today. After all, SMEs Denmark has just carried out a study in which they have asked many of their members about how things are actually going and how they are experiencing developments, how much pressure they are being put on to give longer and longer credits to those who buy their goods. In that study it actually appears that among the 84 per cent. In fact, companies which have to wait longer to get their money on average have less than ten employees. So it certainly clearly illustrates in our view that this is a problem which particularly affects small suppliers in the Danish industry. Then we have said that today, with the Minister in charge, the government is saying that it recognises that there is a problem. I think that was also the time to do so, since the same party to which the Minister belongs during both the year and day has just established and postulated and documented that there is a distortion of competition. The Social Democrats would do something about that before the elections, they would do so in December 2018, they would do so in February 2019. But now that they've got the keys to the whole store, unfortunately they won't. The Minister refers to the fact that you might be able to look at this excellent Swedish code, a voluntary code, which was introduced in 2013. As the SF rapporteur said, 37 companies have chosen to join this code, and if you are to be very funny, you can say that 16 of the 37 companies are Swedish state-owned companies. So the success of making the voluntary code is good enough to overlook this competitive situation. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are saddened that after a year the government is not in a position to get up at just about the same speed as the two Conservative Ministers were. After all, they were criticised by the Socialists for not being quick enough to come up with initiatives to take action against this. Thomas Jensen, who was the business rapporteur for the Social Democrats back in 2018, has been quoted as saying to Jyllands-Posten: "We are convinced that the development we see with longer payment periods, where small and medium-sized enterprises find it difficult to stop, is something we as legislators have to take action against. ▪ Thomas Jensen says this to Jyllands-Posten in 2018. Then, of course, you also assume that this means that the Socialists have the same approach to it when you have political influence, almost a hundred percent. Today, more or less, we can dictate what is going to happen. After all, there are not so many other parties who want an election provoked at least. That's the way it is. But there are also certain conditions to be met when you are in that situation. At any rate, I find it very, very difficult to see the reason why we want to keep our hands on those who, for example, practise up to both 4, 5 and 6 months of payment periods in an unequal, unhealthy competitive situation, where the person who wants to sell his goods is microscopically small compared to the company with which you want to negotiate your deadlines. The rapporteur of the Left said that we do not want to legislate on this. I would then like to know whether the Left has not voted in favour of the interest rate law which already exists and which has been in force for many years. It is an interest rate law of the Minister of Justice which actually outlines these guidelines and which actually states that there is only 30 days of payment time, unless there are other special, difficult, individual considerations that can justify a longer payment period. We can now see that companies have to pay for a product in terms of VAT before they have even received the money for their goods, and we can see that they have to pay for some goods that will get too old before they get their money. Is that fair? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party, which is why we naturally support this SF proposal. We think that's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185428	There is a question from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185431	I'm just gonna have a minute, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby to tell me that during the period from 2001 to 2011 and again from 2015-2019 de facto was the decisive support party for the changing governments that were there. What initiatives did the Danish People's Party take to resolve the problem addressed by the SF today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185501	Well, we have not tabled a resolution on this, but when it comes to dealing with it, we will of course take it up and discuss it like everyone else. However, in relation to the division of tasks here in the Danish Parliament, those who hold the keys to the government offices also have the official apparatus and the opportunity to put things forward, for example in relation to new legislation, new regulations and new guidelines to be implemented. So the opposition does not have the same opportunity to do so. And the Danish People's Party has not been in government. We have supported a government that is quite right but we have not been in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185534	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185536	But the relationship between a government and its support party or support parties is such that the support parties can agree to say: this is what we want on the list. Has the Danish People's Party taken the initiative to get the solution to this problem on the list of pressing issues that the Danish People's Party prioritized during the • how many years did it become • 14 of the last 17 years? Could Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby does not explain what initiatives have been taken by the Danish People's Party, given the urgency of today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185611	After all, it is urgent for politicians to be measured by their actions and by what they say. What words come out of their mouth when they are asked? I understand that one feels a little stepped on the toes of the Socialists when we just allow ourselves to take some excerpts from what the Social Democrats' own business rapporteur has been out saying clearly and in unambiguous terms to Jyllands-Posten both in December 2018 and February 2019. Here he even said that he would go to the Attorney General with it if nothing happened within a few months. Then it is just that nothing happens, and I say: when you give such unambiguous signals, you have to be the man for them, the day you experience the sensible thing, which of course is for a social democrat, that you have access to the government apparatus. And there it is poor that you come here today after a year of government and say that now you want to look at it. I think that's too lame.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185711	Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185715	Thank you. I would like to say to the rapporteur that the SF is so thank you for that and thank you for supporting the proposal. For SF, it is not decisive who said what 2 years ago and who said what 3 years ago. For SF, it is crucial that DF supports our proposal. Egon Olsen would have said so well: we have to go, we have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185744	Well, he always went to jail, so maybe you should be careful doing that much. But we are actually very much in agreement. And I would also like to say that the Socialists have now, as it were, been in to say something about who is in the middle of the government, but it is the SF that is the support party for the bandits sitting over here on the other side watching the work clothes! Apparently, you're the one who's gonna get this through, not the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185810	You might need to be careful what you call the government ( Hans Kristian Skibby but it was kindly meant). It's not proven that they're bandits. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe as rapporteur for Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526185828	Thank you. I have also noted that Mr. Orla Hav said that if you were now one of the parties which, as it were, caused some to have government offices, you could make such a list. So I'll look forward to it. To come back to the motion for a resolution here, I really do understand the purpose of this when it comes to the desire to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are not squeezed into contract negotiations or have to wait quite absurdly long for their money. I am just not sure that the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF is the solution to the problem. Having said that, I would like to help look at how we can solve it. There are many things that affect the length of payment. This is among other things. the culture of agreement that exists in a country, and we can actually try to do something about that, and we can do something about it without interfering enormously with the freedom of agreement, which I also believe we must safeguard. Because we can make this code, which many others have already mentioned. According to my information, it exists both in Sweden and in the Netherlands, and the Minister also mentioned Britain, and I expect us to look at it in the very near future, and if it is not already in the Minister's calendar, there is at least a call from here to get a look at it. As I said, I have great sympathy and understanding for the intention to secure payment for small and medium-sized enterprises, but I see other ways of resolving the problem which, at the same time, will preserve the freedom of agreement and I look forward to the work of finding a solution, but I do not see this resolution as the solution at this stage. That is why Radicals cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190032	There are a few comments. The first is from Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190036	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that this is an unequal fight when we say SMEs against the big ones. The rapporteur welcomes the freedom of agreement, but does not the rapporteur see that there is an unequal play in payment deadlines?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190100	There may well be some things that make it difficult to negotiate these things. I am just not sure that this motion for a resolution from the SF will make it any easier for them. I know that many others have also talked about this code in the past, and then some say that it has been tried in Sweden and that it did not work. But we actually have a very, very broad, responsible business community in Denmark that has reported that they are ready for this. I really think that deserves a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190143	Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190146	Thank you. Does the rapporteur accept that SME Denmark has been out to say that exactly this resolution here will make everything much easier in terms of payment deadlines? And if we do not end up with a code or if it does not work, will the rapporteur help to go further and do something similar to our resolution? I would like to refer to PolicyWatch, where the rapporteur says that this needs to be looked at, so that we ensure that payment deadlines are not absurdly long, but are kept to a greater extent for the 30 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190235	I see a code as the step we must take now. In fact, I have quite a lot of confidence that we can make that work, because we have a responsible business community in Denmark. I agree that there is one organisation of interest which says that this is the solution, but we also have a great many others, many small and medium-sized enterprises that are members of which say otherwise, and which point the way that there are also a great many up here and mention, and I hope that the SF will also recognise this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190312	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190316	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I was struck by the fact that the rapporteur mentioned that this motion for a resolution cannot be supported, but that we had looked at the Swedish model, which we were not entirely sure would have an effect either. Then it's just that I'm getting a little curious to hear what other solutions the Radical Left is looking for. The rapporteur said that there are other solutions. Would the rapporteur not like to share Parliament's views on what these proposals are?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190351	It is no secret that we are above all very positive about looking at this road with a code, but we also know that in Britain we have looked at getting some follow-up or explanation principles across, but it is clearly the code we are looking at at at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190407	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for the second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190411	What just puzzles me is that the Radical Left seems to have fallen in love with this so-called Swedish model in relation to a voluntary code. It has two years on the back, i.e. 24 months, and out of all the many, many thousands of companies that are in Sweden, 37 companies have said: this is a good idea; we should accept it. And out of the 37 are the 21 state corporations. There's 16 left. It's not even a per. region. How can the Radical Left think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190456	Unfortunately, I think there is something that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has completely misunderstood if you think that a code is a fall in love with a Swedish model. And I do not actually understand that the Danish People's Party suddenly has no confidence in it when Danish business comes and says that they are ready to take responsibility, that they are ready to go seriously and committedly into this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190532	Thank you. We are very concerned about how we can ensure better legal protection for small businesses and ensure them against abuse by large companies. Here is the right to agree that longer payments than 30 days will be cancelled, one of the important measures. I have been pleased with the cooperation that was indeed interrupted some of the Corona crisis, it must be said that we have had in the Ministry, but of course we also support this proposal, because we do not yet know where what is happening in the Ministry is going to land. This will help to put small and medium-sized enterprises better than they are now, and it is also part of Enhedslisten's policy. What has unfortunately happened is that we have seen that, after the financial crisis, it has become customary that large companies all too often push small and smaller suppliers with payment deadlines of up to 120 days. Some studies are now being referred to in the European Union, but in Denmark it is still at a high level in relation to payment deadlines, where the big companies simply use the small ones as a credit card, and that is simply not fair; that is not right. The problem is, of course, that we see that it leads to bankruptcies. And now I have to be careful, I don't swear, but it doesn't make any sense that there should be long payment deadlines in this way for some, i.e. large companies that should, in principle, be able to pay in time and that other companies should go bankrupt because of it, not because they don't have a healthy business or they don't have a good idea or they don't have high quality in what they're dealing with, but simply because they're being used as cash credits in that way. It's not okay. Having said that, I don't think this can stand alone. We will be voting in favour, but I hope that we will continue the good cooperation in the Ministry of Industry, because, as I said earlier, we see that, although we have legislation in the field of public enterprises, some of them are also the ones with which small and medium-sized enterprises have problems, and this shows that legislation cannot stand alone. I think that other measures are also needed, and the Corona crisis shows only the topicality of small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. have the opportunity to raise state loans or other things, and there I hope more of you will be able to take a look at some of those things. But I look forward to further work, and now we have to see where it lands in relation to this motion for a resolution, but otherwise we are looking at it over in the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190805	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526190830	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for the suggestion. I always welcome it when there are parties that have a look for the Danish business community. There is no doubt that I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal to ensure good contractual conditions, where smaller companies are easily pushed into the pressure of having to be a bank for a subcontractor while at the same time having to finance the long payment period for a large customer through some factoring product in order not to smash their own liquidity. That is certainly not a wish position. I know all about this from my old work, and Conservatives are certainly aware that at least to a certain extent there may be problems with long payment periods and that, by their very nature, this may be a problem for the smaller ones in particular. Denmark is also full of small and medium-sized enterprises. And we can't make laws and rules and guidelines for everything. It is also the case that on the market you can say no. You can offer some other things. You can choose to run your business on a lot more than payment time, and it certainly doesn't have to be what determines whether you are doing well or doing badly. There is a reason why Denmark has freedom of agreement in this area, and we must safeguard that. Freedom of agreement means that we do not find ourselves in a worse position than we are in the countries with which we trade. Now, for example, the proposers mention that Latvia and the Czech Republic have a 30-day payment deadline. But now, with all due respect, we are not exporting to these countries either. After all, it is Germany, the United States, Sweden, England, Norway and China in that order. And if there is finally to be a tightening of the existing rules, it is important that this happens at EU level, as a Danish one will, of course, damage the competitiveness of Danish companies. For example, should it be done? see Novo Nordisk, Grundfos or LEGO pay all their bills within 30 days just because the company is located in Denmark? This would bring competitive advantages to their American and German competitors, who could agree to longer deadlines. If the mandatory payment deadlines are restricted to domestic, Danish transactions, we may risk, for example, that: greater contract tasks are placed in the hands of craftsmen from other countries because they can provide a longer credit etc. Anything other than an EU solution would be a really bad idea. The latest report from Intrum shows that payment deadlines in Denmark generally move in the right direction if we have the view that they should move downwards. And the average agreed payment deadline and de facto payments stay within the 30-day period is actually quite far below. So there is a lot of talk about the big ones pissing off the small ones, but what is it really like? Are those feelings, or are they the facts? There are certainly good examples; there are certainly also many emotions. Hopefully, the companies have something else to offer, as I started by saying, and I experience in the daily experience that buyers do not always just want to push the suppliers so they succumb. They are also dependent on good suppliers. You depend on good, strong, long-term cooperation. We see here, too, during the corona crisis, that companies themselves make immediate payments to help their subcontractors. We know very well that it is not good for the market that the suppliers are gone when we get on the other side. You know it's worth your while to behave. There is no doubt that the former Conservative Minister for Economic Affairs was also in favour of looking at this area. However, the study has come subsequently, and it is also interesting in the study that only 24 per cent. of the Danish respondents actually want new legislation in this area. And we should remember that the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises still have the answer to the survey, of course. Most Danish companies simply do not want either the state or the European Union to interfere in commercial relations. We are in favour of freedom of agreement. The Conservative People's Party does the same, and so we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191232	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191237	Thank you. I note that Mrs Mona Juul mentions the major Danish companies in this debate. There I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he is not aware of the fact that EU legislation has actually been introduced and adopted in relation to payments. The rapporteur mentioned, among other things: Novo Why is Novo being used in this example when Novo is covered by EU regulation? And then the rapporteur also says that the Conservative People's Party will not vote for legislation in such an area. What has the Conservative People's Party voted in the European Parliament on this issue of large companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191321	There is no doubt that it must be done at EU level if we are to regulate anything. And when I mention the big companies, it is to make it clear that we should not sit in here at Christiansborg and destroy the competitive advantage to be enjoyed as a Danish company by making some regulations on the freedom of agreement that exists today. And I fully understand that there are regulations, including at EU level, and that must still be done if anything is to be changed here in Denmark in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191350	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191353	But then I do not understand why the rapporteur says that the Conservative People's Party is not involved in regulating the law in this area, when the European Union has actually voted for exactly the same thing, just to some larger companies. In fact, I think you actually owe an answer to that. And I would also like to hear about something in relation to Danish legislation: has the Conservative People's Party voted against the interest rate law under the Ministry of Justice when it was adopted? They have not known, I can reassure the rapporteur with that. So the rapporteur does not have to be afraid of it. But it is just weird, because it actually says that the law clearly states that it provides for companies between one another to operate with a maximum period of 30 days. And the Conservative People's Party has voted in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191436	There is no doubt here from the platform and from my side that I think and the Conservative People's Party also thinks that there should be freedom of agreement between the parties on the market as far as possible. It is absolutely essential for the competitiveness, the free capital, the trade that must be between people, between companies, that it still exists. This is absolutely crucial for us, and that is why we cannot support such a bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191502	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191506	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur now referred to one of the countries with which we have a great deal of trade, namely Germany. And it is true that Germany does not have a 30-day payment deadline, but, on the other hand, they do have what it says is that if payment deadlines are at the disadvantage of the supplier, they can actually be taken to court. So, you can simply take your interest expenses to court where a judge can go in to say: listen, this is actually not okay. So that means that one of the countries with which we are working, in other words Germany, that is. The Germans, in fact, pay relatively quickly, especially when comparing with Denmark. So they actually have a payment that fits better with the 30 days. Would it not also create more transparency and transparency when we can see that it is unfavorable for small and medium-sized enterprises in Denmark? There are still many days to go on compared to the 30 days, but it would not be a bad thing if we took the reference to the German.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191613	I don't think this is about transparency in any way whatsoever. This is about the fact that the party represented by the rapporteur would like there to be more regulation. The party I represent would like us to have fewer regulations. And precisely this point about payment deadlines is that there are also all sorts of other parameters for trade. A great many times you feel that you would have liked to have had something more for your product and that you might have drawn a little on the service etc. After all, there will always be a fight between two parties to the agreement. And there is our view that we should not be left alone because the market is actually very good at regulating it itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191652	I am pleased to be able to clarify that I am not in favour of regulation just for the sake of regulation. After all, we want to promote a purpose, and I hope that the rapporteur and I can agree that we want to help small businesses in Denmark and ensure a good business environment. In any case, I think we have worked well together on this. I am so sorry that we do not agree with this, because I know that it will help many of them that they do not feel that they should be pushed into what can be seen from the facts as a cause of bankruptcy. But I just want to say thank you, and I also look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191726	You're welcome. It's always a pleasure. There is no doubt that there are some who get into trouble, but I would just like to say that there may be many reasons for this. It does not necessarily have to be the payment deadline, which is why you have to pull the plug and go bankrupt. There may be many other explanations for this. In the good cooperation, where you behave properly on both sides of the table, the freedom of agreement that we have, of course, works very well. I think we'll just stand our best by sticking to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191755	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191758	Thank you. Does the rapporteur accept that if a large company opts out of the small and medium-sized enterprises because of a 30-day payment deadline I hear the rapporteur mention that, in his speech, Danish law is also excluded when shopping abroad? And so I also think that the big companies can get into trouble, and experts and lawyers and judges from abroad must be sought if that is how they get into such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191829	Well, I'm a little in doubt about what it is that's being asked about. However, as I see it, it is being asked whether it is the case that if we do not go in and regulate, there may be some other things we need to address. And there I have to say that that view can be taken, but one can then have it in relation to all the points of agreement that will be involved in trade, for example. Between two companies. And that is not the way to look at things in my opinion. The way to look at this is to say: what is our best position in terms of competitiveness and trade between Danish companies? The vast majority, about 90 per cent, of Danish companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, so the question is: who is it really that you think is prying others? That is something we could ask ourselves. So let's get those examples of the table, and then you'll have to look at it from there. Typically, we agree on this individually and find out: how can we actually resolve the conflict we have? Because it may be that you have been met with a new payment deadline, but then it may be that you can be allowed to deliver some new products instead of, or that you can get more for your service or whatever it is you can do. We are not going to define that in here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526191944	It is quite right that this was my question to the rapporteur. So, to clarify this, I would like to say that I hear the rapporteur say in his speech that the rapporteur fears that the big ones will choose to trade abroad rather than to trade with Danish companies if it is the case that we introduce a 30-day payment deadline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192007	No, I'm not expressing myself. I say that if we push down a payment deadline on all Danish companies, which they also have to comply with internationally, then we have a challenge, because suddenly it becomes a parameter where you are worse than other companies. It does so for small businesses too. It is not only the large ones who will be badly hit by international trade. So it is really crucial that we ensure that small companies in Denmark also have a strong competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192033	So I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. All the brief comments have been answered. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192042	Thank you. The state has to stay out of this when two private people want to make a deal. But I would actually like to contribute to the fact that if we are going to do something from in here, we are going to tackle all the municipalities and regions that are incredibly poor at paying. That would be a good idea. I remember that a few years ago it came to light that the City of Copenhagen had 11,000 invoices which they had not paid for it was well over 250 million. kr., they actually had as outstanding and as it had been a very long time before they paid. See, that could be a good idea. So let us start by looking inside our own business and look at how many invoices the state, regions and municipalities have that are outstanding and then start paying them. I know that something has now happened under the corona and so on, so it has now been put forward, but let it be a good habit that municipalities actually comply with the rules that we set up in here. So let's start there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192134	Thank you. I certainly believe that there are 30 days of payment deadlines for the public sector, and I would like to see that payment deadline in the business sector where I believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are worse because they are smaller and that is an unequal fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192154	Well, I know SF wants to impose on business the things you do in the state. I think that's an incredibly bad idea. The state is not a friend of the economy, and it will never be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192206	Does Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen wish to make another comment? No. Then there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192214	Thank you. It was just because I wondered a little about what the rapporteur had to say about the way in which the public sector handled payments. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is not aware of the rules of the Modernisation Authority on 30 days' payment deadline as a general principle for all payments between municipalities, states and regions, etc. and to private people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192237	Yes, that is precisely why I said that they should be respected. What has happened is that they have not been observed. That is why we have a problem, and that is what I said, that we could start by ensuring that the deadlines were respected and that they were actually paid there. Then it might be possible to help some of the small companies that have the State and the municipalities and the regions as customers. That's where we're responsible. But that the state should go in and interfere in how two private people make an agreement will not be with the voices of New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192301	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192309	I just don't think that's how the rapporteur said that there were these agreements. However, if the rapporteur believes that it actually exists today for all public authorities and bodies, I assume that after all we will respect the fact that these agreements have been concluded, which we are also asking for in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192325	Yes, and that's what I actually thought I explained. But the problem is if they are not paid and if the municipalities do not comply with the rules set up and do not follow them. I think that this is where we have to put our hands in here from the Folketing and make demands on the municipalities, the regions and the state that they themselves comply with the rules that have been set up. Let us now start there and put our own house in order before we begin to dictate everything else to the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192349	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192400	Thank you. When I was on tour a few years ago on the debureaucratisation of the Left with Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, one of the things we often heard was that many small businesses complain about unfair payment deadlines when they have to recover payments. However, it should be borne in mind that it is possible to test whether a payment deadline is unreasonable under Article 36 of the contract law. But the big picture is that we are in favour of freedom of agreement. We very much believe that it should be possible to conclude the agreements that are desirable, and we think that this should apply in particular to economic operators who, if one can put it that way, are professional contractors of agreements. If you are a professional, you should also be able to understand the consequences of the agreements you make. So the principle of freedom of agreement weighs heavily on us, even though we know that this is the way things are sometimes complained about. We also think that the guarantees contained in the contract law work in a sensible way. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192525	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That brings me to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526192541	Thank you. Before I entered this Chamber today, I thought: has it ever been possible to convince or change a position from this chair with a speech that has been written? Today, I would like to say that this is a test. This is my first motion for a resolution, and it had to be tested. I will soon stop my vicariat in the Folketing and it would be wonderful to be able to say that my first motion for a resolution succeeded. It doesn't look like that today after running the round. First of all, I would also like to say that I have great respect for all our Danish companies, small and large, which contribute to the Denmark that we all know today. Every day I live in Himmerland in Northern Jutland, and there are a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises that contribute to the community of which many of us are part. Several of these small and medium-sized enterprises I have been visiting, and several of them report unreasonable payment deadlines of 60 and 90 and, yes, some as much as 120 days. Some mention it as a relic of the financial crisis, where many large companies used this as an opportunity to hold on to their liquidity during a very difficult time. Denmark is currently facing a new crisis. We're in the middle of Corona. Politically, we have made a great many fine aid packages to hold hands with our companies, and that is precisely why I think this proposal is more important than ever before, even when we tabled it in February. Right now, small and medium-sized enterprises need their money enormously. They have them flying when they deliver a product to e.g. the large companies. The long payment periods bind their capital with the large companies, which will thus act as banks for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I believe that this will slow down the development potential of SMEs. I would also like to highlight here our very nice and large climate targets. In order to achieve our climate ambitions, this requires a green investment from small and medium-sized enterprises too, and I believe that this is one of the arguments that they also need their money. Moreover, the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises do not get their money means that there will be less investment in our society. There will be less growth and fewer local jobs. This proposal doesn't cost the Treasury anything. On the contrary, it will help small businesses that are in a mess. One might ask oneself why it is then that the little ones do not just require their money in. But no, several of them simply do not dare to shout out for fear that the big companies do not want their services afterwards, so that the big boycotts the companies concerned in order to find some other suppliers. This could have fatal consequences for the company in question, and I think it is an unequal battle that should not be so. I know that many people in the Chamber today are talking about freedom of agreement. But I don't think it's fair terms or a level playing field. I think this is like setting a lightweight boxer to fight a heavyweight boxer. I also hear arguments that it is feared that more trade will move abroad. I just don't buy that argument. If you choose that option, you also opt out of Danish law, and if companies are caught up, experts, lawyers and judges from abroad will have to be sought with knowledge of foreign law if something goes wrong, and I simply do not think the big companies will choose that. I am also listening today to the fact that there are various proposals, among others. It is a code, that is to say a voluntary scheme, in which large companies can be included. A voluntary code has been introduced in Sweden. However, 37 companies have chosen to join this scheme and this is far from satisfactory for the solution that is in Sweden. Finally, it is important for me to say that a few large companies, perhaps more, actually have fair payment deadlines. I just think that this proposal will help some people, maybe a few. In the SF we simply do not want credit to be given for longer than 30 days. Finally, I also have today a report which has come from SME Denmark. The report is unmistakable. The title reads: "Spads experience longer payment periods during the corona'. This report shows that especially small businesses are hit incredibly hard under corona. The small ones have much higher burdens in this report to finance with bank loans. When a company has an expense, it is for materials, wages and VAT before they receive money. So money they have to get out before they get money in. It could threaten them, and it could threaten their existence. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten for supporting the SF's proposals. I hope that we can continue to have good cooperation in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and when this is voted down, the SF is also ready to look at a voluntary code. But we must also be the first to shout when it turns out that it doesn't work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193213	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a brief comment on Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193218	Thank you. It is a pleasure that the rapporteur managed to table a resolution, even though I do not think it is the best resolution the rapporteur could have tabled but nevertheless points to try at least. What actually makes the rapporteur feel convinced that if we do not regulate payment deadlines, it will cost local jobs? Where exactly is it that I can see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193248	I believe that when small businesses do not get their money in, especially during this corona crisis, they do not have much money in their hands. We can see in this corona crisis that people are being sent home, that there is a need for liquidity out there, that they need their money here and now, and I believe that it will result in fewer jobs in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193312	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193314	When would the rapporteur be satisfied with this unequal struggle being mentioned? Is that about 30 days? Why isn't it 10 days? Why isn't it 40 days? Well, why do you land on the 30 days and think that's where the straight fight is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193334	I have listened to SME Denmark, I have listened to the many small and medium-sized enterprises that I have visited out there, and everyone points to 30 days. These are the words I have heard on my way, and they are the ones I carry on in here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193352	That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193408	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526193435	The motion for a resolution we are about to deal with now comes from the Danish People's Party and concerns requirements for the use by insurance companies of medical certificates. The proposal provides, inter alia, for the choice of the specialist on the basis of a national list by the injured party, the absence of an economic link between the specialist and the company, and the requirement of flat rates for the fees for the preparation of specialist declarations. The Danish People's Party refers to media coverage of cases in which persons who have suffered an accident which has caused personal injury have been caught when they need compensation from their insurance companies. There is no doubt that the issue is deeply relevant, because it is important for many Danes in a vulnerable situation and also for us, that there is confidence in the statements made by health professionals and that there is a proper and trusting relationship between insurance companies and customers. However, although the proposal is based on good intentions, and that is really what I see it as such, the government cannot support the solutions proposed in the resolution. This is because, in our view, the proposal contains elements which may in fact make it difficult to find a satisfactory solution for the victims. Let me first address the first suggestion that the insurance company should give a concrete and factual written statement if the insurance company wishes to obtain a medical certificate in a case and that it should be possible to complain about the desire to obtain a medical certificate. All insurance cases must be assessed on an informed basis. In this context, a specialist can contribute with special specialized competence in an area which will not be part of, for example: the expertise of a general practitioner. Therefore, as a starting point, a medical certificate can be valuable in insurance cases as long as the specialist has been chosen in a safe manner. Fortunately, in many cases, the use of specialists works well and in a good and constructive dialogue between customers and insurance companies. It is also important to state that a medical certificate is not a decision but an extension of the basis on which a decision is taken. The Government therefore considers that it should not be possible to appeal against the decision itself to obtain a medical certificate. The anchor process could potentially delay the process and allow longer processing times. There is also a risk that such an appeal may lead to more expensive insurance because it makes it difficult for companies to provide sufficient clarification of the insurance cases. Thus, the companies will require a further risk premium. I would also like to point out that in the public system it is not possible to appeal against a decision to obtain a medical certificate. I do not think that we should make more stringent demands on private companies than we ourselves do in the public sector. But, of course, the use of medical certificates presupposes that no question can be asked about the impartiality and suitability of the specialist. That is why I believe we need to find a solution where a separate body can choose the relevant specialist and specialist if there is disagreement about the choice between customer and insurance company. If we do so, there will be no reason to question the motives of the specialist, and citizens do not need to feel overwhelmed by a large insurance company. In relation to the second proposal that the victim should be able to choose a specialist himself on the basis of a national list of recognised specialists, the Government considers that it is not appropriate to leave the victim alone with the choice of specialist. Such a choice requires knowledge of which doctors are relevant and available, both in terms of physical location, specialty and time. This can be an incalculable task for some victims, not least because it must happen at the same time when you are already in a vulnerable situation. Here we must be careful that we do not in the best sense, and I fully understand that, will make it difficult for the customer. Another point is that both the customer and the insurance company have an interest in the choice of specialist in principle, and I therefore believe that the most appropriate choice of specialist in cases where the client and the company cannot agree is made not only by one party, either by the company on the one hand or by the client on the other, but at best is made impartially. With regard to the third proposal on full transparency and transparency in relations between insurance companies and specialist doctors, and the fact that there must be no financial affiliation between insurance companies and doctors, I can of course support the part of the proposal that goes on transparency and transparency. In fact, I have expressed this in the past both in response to parliamentary questions and at the conciliation meeting on 16 January. As far as financial affiliation is concerned, I understand the motivation for the proposal, that is to say, that you do not want specialists who become financially dependent on an insurance company and thus potentially less impartial. At the same time, I also believe that insurance companies should pay if they wanted a medical certificate. Of course, in the individual case, each insurance company must not influence the choice of specialist if there is a disagreement between the customer and the company. It is essential to be able to find a good solution. With regard to the last proposal that specialist doctors should be paid at fixed rates, it is possible, in principle, to lay down legal requirements for fixed prices for specialist declarations, but at the same time, a statutory regulation of prices also puts out competition in this market, and this may ultimately mean that the price of specialist declarations is higher than it really needed to be, and in the end it would make insurance more expensive for consumers. That is why I think we should be very careful to go that way. So the resolution contains very good intentions, which we share, and the government has a desire to resolve the problem which exists and which we share with the proposers, but at the same time it will be a proposal which will allow a solution which will ensure satisfactory treatment for the victims. So, on the basis of those assessments, the government cannot support the resolution, but instead we would like to continue our work to find a balanced solution that can enjoy confidence in the public and among the customers and that has the necessary competences and resources to ensure sound processing within an acceptable period of time. This is a solution that we are working on to be able to present a concrete proposal for as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194242	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194251	Thank you very much and thank you for your reply. I am pleased that we are working on it, but I also fear that we will not get it out of what we want. The Minister will only intervene when you disagree with the insurance company. As the health rapporteur, I would like to say that I think it is incredible that we should have doctors who write 4, 5 or 6 statements on one matter when we can use doctors much better in the health care system. That is why I am surprised that if you have a medical certificate in advance because you have been hospitalized or otherwise it doesn't have to be from a general practitioner you can't stick to it, but you have to have someone else see what's wrong, that is to say someone else who may not have had anything to do with the person at all. That is actually what the Minister thinks is okay. I mean, do you not trust the first doctor who has actually treated the person concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194357	In other words, on the basis of the cases I have come to know myself, the question is, if you as a customer and insurance company do not agree with the choice of specialist, if it is not a stumbling block to conflict and to challenges between the company and the customer. This is where I see the possibility that we can go in and create a model in which we can ensure the impartiality in which we actually take the customer into an agency, body, institution, whatever we call it, where we can ensure that the impartiality that I have taken down from the cases I have encountered in the media has often been at stake and has been a challenge. And that's what we're working to find a solution to, very soon, of course, because I share the experience that this is a case complex that has filled a lot and for a long time, and therefore it would be good to get a solution very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194504	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194507	Now I could have drilled more on that question, but there are a lot of questions, and I only have two. The other thing I want to spend on is that you don't want to make a fixed price because there has to be competition. But the competition in this is seen by the fact that there are insurance companies which have a particular specialist, for which they know they are doing the best to ensure that it is the insurance company that wins and thereby also makes money from it, and for which one is willing to pay an extra fee. That is what we want to do; it is not achieved by the Minister's free competition rules. Is that not something the Minister can look at, in other words, how we can ensure that there are no doctors working only for the good of insurance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194553	I do not know whether we have doctors who work only for the good of insurance, but I can see that we have a challenge here that is so extensive that it is necessary for us to deal with it politically as well. That is why we have set in motion the work to find a solution that ensures impartiality and orderlyness for the customer. In principle, the price can be legally fixed, but then there is also the possibility of putting the competition that can help to ensure that you get the best price, also as a customer, out of play in this case, and I just want to warn you about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194631	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194636	Thank you. In fact, I believe that most of these citizens do not see themselves as customers in an insurance company, but as patients in a health care system, because they are typically injured and need health care. The treating doctor is, after all, subject to the provisions of the Health Act on how to do your job and things like that, and it is also the health authorities that control the doctor concerned. That is why I am somewhat surprised at the Minister's suggestion that insurance companies should set up an independent body which can, as it were, help to determine whether what a given doctor has made statements on at the request of the insurance is right or wrong. I also wonder a little bit how the patient can be sure that the doctor in question is still working according to the provisions of the Health Act or who should check that the body actually complies with the provisions of the Health Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194737	It is true that it is the law as it is. But that does not change the fact that, in connection with the various stories that we have encountered, I do not think that this is the experience of the many citizens. One might at least be uncomfortable: does the specialist work like this, or does the specialist work for the insurance company? If you are a citizen, a patient, a victim, you are in this situation, there is a lack of an independent body today that can go in and help with the choice of specialist, and that is what I think we should be working towards, and that is of course for the benefit of the citizen. It's not a matter of the law not working. I can only say that, as a citizen out there, one can be in the position of being in doubt and in need of impartiality, and it is, of course, very important that that body should be able to deliver exactly that impartiality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194841	I sometimes think it is really difficult for the citizen, the patient, to see how it is that the doctor who treats you says one thing and that the doctor who has to do a job for the insurance company says another. Who am I supposed to trust? After all, they are both doctors, and I understand the dilemma, and since the Minister of Industry is also responsible for the insurance companies, that is also natural. But that is why I have tried several times to suggest that perhaps in reality we work with the Ministry of Health to solve this problem, so that health is allowed to stay in the health sector and that insurance is allowed to stay in the business sector, but that the Gordian knot may be solved by closer cooperation. Could that be an opportunity, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194927	I would like to start by saying that, fortunately, we are working closely and well with the Ministry of Health and the Elders, also in this case, and simply challenging that, because you are Minister of Business, you are probably only thinking about insurance companies. What I am actually looking for here and I think that we are doing as a government is, after all, being able to create an agency that helps citizens and insurance companies to get out of these conflict situations that are going to be locked up in a good way, where there is confidence in the solution of both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526194959	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195003	Thank you. Now it is the case that doctors work according to the principles that say that their work must be cared for and unsatisfied, and we must of course assume that it is. Therefore, it is also natural to base what the first specialist you meet describes in your statement in relation to an injured person. Then it is clear that there may be cases where additional information may be needed, and that is where I can then hear that the Minister, with the solution he outlines, is suggesting that it should only be in cases where there is a conflict between the victim and the insurance company. I would really like to know whether the Minister would not be willing to look at whether we could ensure that it would be in all cases where it could be said that there was room for the injured party to choose a specialist, of course with specific requirements on specialty and geography and approach, but that the injured party had that opportunity, because then we could, like the asymmetrical power relationship that exists between the insurance company and the injured party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195115	As I experience it, and as I remember the figures now I have to confess that I do not have them right here in front of me, there is no conflict situation in the vast majority of cases. The matter will be resolved in a memorable manner. You find a specialist and you get a better basis for the insurance decision, and then the case is solved. That is why the focus of the government has been on resolving the conflict cases, in other words where the choice of specialist becomes a problem where you no longer feel comfortable about it as a citizen and where you become in doubt about impartiality. And despite everything the questioner quite rightly says, and as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also says about the work and work of doctors, it may well arise. So what we're focused on is solving the problem. And I believe that the problem arises where the citizen, in other words the victim, and the insurance company, ends up in a conflict as to whether or not this was a proper medical choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195221	But we can only see that there is an asymmetrical relationship between the insurance company and the injured party. There will, of course, be a number of cases which will never become a conflict situation, but in which the insurance company will also have the opportunity to use the power it has to choose certain specialists. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this, that is to say that attempts have been made to exploit that position of power. So should we not also guarantee them the right to be treated impartially for the victims who do not have the resources to fight or say that there is a conflict here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195257	In other words, as I have said, we have chosen to focus where there are problems in the cases, in other words where they are going to be a conflict case, and to say that these must be the cases we are trying to resolve, because these are the cases that end up unhappy and bad, which are going to fill up for all of us, and which are also helping to shake confidence in this whole system. Then you can always consider whether you want to expand it or what you want, but the government has chosen that the focus must be primarily on solving the problem issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195329	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This gives the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195341	When people have experienced a serious accident and contact their insurance company, they must be confident that a real and independent assessment is being made. A medical certificate may be a fine tool as part of the overall basis on which decisions are made, but the prerequisite is, of course, that the doctor who makes statements is independent. Unfortunately, in the media we have seen and heard several examples that question that particular independence. It should therefore also be in everyone's interest for there to be full confidence that the medical certificates draw up a correct picture. It is also in the interests of the insurance companies themselves. That is why there is every reason why we should look at how a model can be made more appropriate. However, as the Minister for Business and Industry also explained, I have doubts as to whether the action mentioned in this motion for a resolution will actually solve the problem. Are we not just risking in trying to help the people who are in trouble to come up with proposals that can both drag things out and at the same time increase the cost of insurance? For example, it is proposed that the insurance company's wish to obtain a medical certificate should be open to appeal to an independent body, and I do not actually understand that proposal. Would it be in the interests of the injured party to spend a long time discussing back and forth whether a medical certificate can be obtained at all? I'm not sure. After all, the problem is not the medical certificate itself, which in many cases can be an excellent tool. The problem is that doubts can be raised as to whether it is independent. The proposal here does not solve that. Nor am I convinced that the solution is to allow the victim to choose a specialist, for what are the conditions and knowledge of an ordinary citizen who is even in a situation which is already under pressure in order to assess which specialist should be chosen? And when the authors of the motion state that there must be no financial affiliation between the doctor and the insurance company, does this mean that in future it must be either the victim or the public who has to pay for the medical certificate? We do not think that would be fair. I am pleased to hear that the government is heading towards a solution that can ensure an effective process while at the same time designating an independent specialist and that it is the insurance company that bears the costs. We cannot support the resolution, but we look forward to the government presenting a solution and hopefully finding a model that has broad support in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195618	Thank you very much. Now we have never said at any time that the payment should be transferred to the state. It's gotta be something you've made up. The payment is where it is today. But does the rapporteur not think it is problematic that there are certain doctors who, as their only profession, actually sit and fill in doctor's declarations • some may actually have a clinic in Jutland and one at Zealand and that is where you are sent when you complain to the insurance? Actually, these are some of the things we've seen. There is no transparency. We do not know if the doctor is now getting twice as much to make sure that the insurance company is the one that gets the most benefit. These are some of the things that have been demonstrated in several media in several cases. So is this not a problem that the rapporteur thinks we should address?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195711	I would say that I do not think this is the most pressing problem in this matter. The most pressing problem is if there is any question as to whether a specialist's statement is independent and is a real statement. That is the whole basis, I assume, for this resolution and therefore there are a number of parties supporting it. We want to help solve this problem, and we do not believe that this resolution will solve this problem. But we want to solve it, we want to make a move on it. The government is on its way with an initiative, and hopefully the Danish People's Party and other parties that agree can help solve this problem. But the resolution here today does not solve it as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195752	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195754	I am surprised that the rapporteur says that this is not the most common problem. If we didn't have some doctors who only sat and made medical statements at a really good price, then we didn't have the company that made it profitable. This is one of the problems both lawyers and others have been facing. In other words, we could have the doctors we know today sitting and treating people to make their statement about what is wrong with them, but that is not accepted. In other words, the rapporteur is also a health rapporteur. Does the rapporteur not respect the first specialist to tell us what is wrong with the patient?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195836	Well, I am primarily the health rapporteur, and that is why I am here today. I am not only the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who can ask the same question twice, and then I can give the same answer twice. What I think is the problem here is if the independence of specialists can be called into question. That's what we're focusing on. That's what the government's gonna come up with. And that is what we will hopefully be able to reach a broad agreement on, if not so awful, awful long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195908	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195910	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am just wondering about the argument that the victim should be in a situation where they are not able to choose a specialist themselves. I think they can do that. In other words, that is how we normally deal with it in the health service; there you get a reference to a specialist, and then you can choose a specialist for yourself. It is clear that there are some criteria that must be met in relation to the specialty, and there may also be some criteria in relation to geography or waiting lists. But I do not understand why it should be the case that the victim himself should not be able to choose a specialist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526195954	Of course, there will be a lot of victims who can easily do so. But what I question here in all peace and happiness is just whether the victim has any special conditions for doing so, i.e. whether it would be a particular advantage in terms of ensuring a sensible decision, that it is the victim who bears that responsibility, especially when we know that those whom it is about are in a particularly difficult and stressful situation if they have been in an accident. So I'm just questioning whether it's going to be a special advantage in terms of getting an independent statement. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200038	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200039	But to me, it would just be a right one could give to them, so they would have that opportunity. In fact, I think it is quite essential in these cases that the injured person should be given the right to take part in choosing which specialist you use, precisely because we have seen the cases where there has been uncertainty in relation to whether there have been special doctors used by insurance companies. That is why I think this would provide a guarantee, but it is possible that other solutions can be found. I just do not think it can be said that the victim should be in a situation in which they themselves would not be able to choose a specialist. I don't think you have to take that into account. I think it should be seen as a right that you will be able to give them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200121	People are as different as we are in here. So there will be some where it will be quite unproblematic, and there will probably be some where it will be an incalculable extra task to have to find one. The crucial point must be that the insurance company and the injured person agree that it is a fair assessment and that it is a reasonable basis and that it is an independent assessment that is being made by this specialist it is more about it than it is about who has now found or has been referred to this specialist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200158	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200201	Thank you. I think, in fact, that I share the view that it can sometimes be a little difficult with the free choice if you are in some critical situation and have had an accident and have to find out who the best doctor is. I think this is generally the case in the health care sector. I would like us to be able to assume that this is the best doctor we are being treated by, no matter when we need it. I think that is precisely what is interesting here, because how can I, as a patient in relation to an insurance company, be sure that the health professional guidelines which apply to the general medical profession also apply to the specialists who work for the insurance company? And when the Danish Health Service draws up guidelines, clinical guidelines and everything else for health specialists, should the Danish Health Service really not do the same for specialists who work for insurance companies and, as such, also control them? And would it not be reasonable that that is precisely where the task lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200304	Yes, and that is exactly the relevant question and what makes this resolution important to discuss today, and that is why it is important that the Minister of Industry has the work in progress and hopefully soon can present a model on which we can agree. It is essential for citizens, if they are affected by an accident, to know that the medical certificate to be drawn up is independent. That's what's absolutely crucial in this context. With regard to how we put this together, there has to be a move from the government, and then we have to discuss it together and hopefully find a common ground in terms of how we can do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200347	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200348	Let me ask you another way: will the rapporteur, as a health rapporteur, help to ensure that specialists who have to make statements on patients on behalf of insurance companies must always refer in all circumstances to the guidelines of the Danish Health Service on how specialists should act and should also be controlled by the Danish Health Service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200412	Now I don't want to stand here and promise things until I've seen what's coming from the Department of Business... I think that would be unwise of me. However, I would like to say at least that what is crucial is that it becomes an independent assessment which is being made here. How we then get it together and secure it, I will wait with great excitement to see from the Ministry of Business, and then we can all discuss it and hopefully find common ground to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200442	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200450	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. The purpose of a medical certificate is to obtain an impartial assessment which is objective and descriptive. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of cases in which citizens are caught up in their own insurance cases. There have been a large number of cases in which the injured party has felt ill and unfairly treated by their insurance companies in connection with the choice of specialist. The public's confidence in the system is simply challenged and so tested. That is why we also welcome the motion for a resolution because it highlights this important issue. Insurance & Pension, which represents insurance companies, has decided something in April. In fact, I believe that the cases here have given Insurance & Pension an opportunity to look inwards. They have, of course, adopted some new initiatives, and they contain six specific principles and an initiative on transparency which some of the points contained in the motion for a resolution meet. In addition, it is stated today by the government that the Minister for Industry is working on a proposal for a solution. Because it is very important that we safeguard the rights of the citizen and that the injured person receive an objective assessment in personal injury cases. In the Left, we call for a comprehensive solution to be found in cases where there is disagreement between insurance companies and victims about the choice of specialists by obtaining a medical certificate in personal injury cases. That is why we urge the Minister of Industry to call for the political discussions on achieving this. This should then be an opportunity to say that we cannot support the resolution as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200656	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is why it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Katrine Robsøe, from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526200717	Thank you. You can get really nervous when you have to stand here and talk in front of all the health rapporteurs. I'll do my best anyway. After all, none of us are affected by the stories that have been mentioned in the media. To stand in one of life's most difficult situations and at the same time have to fight to get what you feel you are entitled to must be inhumane hard. I think we can all understand that. This proposal deals specifically with medical certificates, i.e. expert assessments of an insured person's health situation in connection with an insurance case. And although on the surface it is an enormously sympathetic proposal, in the Radical Left we cannot support it in its present form. First of all, I would like to make it clear that in Denmark we have a medical stand which we have great confidence in when they do their medical work. They must always show impartiality and integrity, not least in the case of declarations. But not everything is perfect, and it is therefore positive that the Insurance & Pension Association has drawn up a number of principles which will also come up with the motion for a resolution. The first part of the motion for a resolution deals with the need to be able to complain about the wish of an insurance company to obtain a medical certificate. We find that hard to see reason in. A statement is not in itself a decision; it is a document prepared by an expert to clarify the details of a case. It is of great value and should, of course, be able to be included without delay in the process. The next part is about the possibility of choosing a specialist. We agree that it should be easier and freer, but we do not share the proposers' proposals, as is stated here. A national list does not take into account the work of finding a specialist with the right skills, with space in the calendar and within reasonable distance. Instead, we would like to see a solution whereby the parties agree to choose a specialist on a shorter list and where an independent body is set up to decide disputes over the election. This will make the injured person better and ensure transparency and openness about the process. The third point concerns openness and the economy. Openness is a good thing. We can quickly agree on that. Therefore, transparency about, for example, the number of specialist declarations and similar statistics may be a good idea. However, it is not possible in our optics to avoid economics between the insurance company and the specialist, as it costs money to make a statement, and that cost must of course be borne by the insurance company. Finally, it proposes the introduction of fixed tariffs for the preparation of a declaration. It seems a little strange for us to put the competition law out of business and demand a fixed tariffs agreement between two trade associations in this area. In addition to putting free competition out of play, the proposal also ignores the fact that there may be great variation in the amount of work involved in making statements. We cannot support that part either. So all in all, we have very much sympathy for the idea, and we look forward to seeing what the government is coming with. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201054	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201059	Thank you very much. Now we in the Danish People's Party do not think about making a list of specialists who do not have time to make a medical certificate or who do not have the thesis for which they should judge or make a statement. If the rapporteur has so much left over and so much faith in and so much confidence in doctors, why not trust that it is the citizen who can choose the specialist who has to make the medical certificate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201131	However, I am also saying here in my rapporteur's speech that we would at least like to see a solution where the parties can agree on the choice of specialist on some shorter list, where some of the principles can be taken into account if that is possible. Because we would like to see agreement reached so that everyone knows that this is a real assessment and a proper assessment of how the citizen, the patient and the victim feel, because it is precisely this impartiality that is so crucial and that there is no uncertainty among the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201207	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201208	But that's not what Insurance & Pension wants. Insurance & Pension will make their list where you as a citizen need to find out which doctor you choose. But if the citizen comes and says that the citizen has a specialist who would like to make a statement, then they will not be part of it. And that's what puzzles me if you have so much faith in all the doctors. And then I am also surprised that you say that you don't want to go into this relationship about what you pay from the insurance industry to a doctor, but when it comes to pharmaceutical companies and doctors, it has to be transparent. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201247	I believe that the medical companies are something you have discussed in the health sector. At least it is not a discussion that I remember having been involved in, so I hope that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party will speak to my colleague Mr. Stinus Lindgreen about instead. I'm sorry, I just forgot the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201311	Mrs Liselott Blixt will just be allowed to repeat it very briefly (Katrine Robsøe Thank you).
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201313	Why can't it be the citizen's choice if you have that confidence in the doctors? Well, Insurance & Pension makes a list, and then you can choose. It's the same thing they can do today. They can make a list of three doctors; choose one of them. But if you bring one yourself, you can't choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201328	It's exactly where I think it's so important that we get an independent body to assess it when we're in these situations where there's disagreements, so you can actually feel comfortable in this, so you don't, as an injured person and as a citizen in a difficult situation, stand in doubt as to whether you can trust this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201348	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201355	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward this proposal, a proposal which, on a long stretch, is similar to the handshake that we were giving each other a year ago. A handshake which, in short, is designed to create transparency in the way in which injuries are treated. That is an important objective. From time to time, we have to note that some citizens find that the treatment of their personal injuries by insurance companies is seen as unfair. And that's probably the worst possible outcome to a person's injury. Particularly more complex damage, such as concussion and whiplash, is one of the injuries that often arise between insurance companies and the victim. And it is also typical in those situations that insurance companies use a specialist who has to make such a kind of second opinion. A number of injured persons share the experience that some insurance companies use specialist doctors who are primarily concerned with the interests of the insurance company more than they fulfil their medical responsibilities towards the injured person. I think the doubt is justified, because how does it actually happen that a treating doctor and an insurance doctor may end up having two widely different assessments of the injury of the same patient? Which of the two doctors is right? And, in the end, what does it do to people's confidence in health care if doctors' assessments can be as different as they have seen in a number of insurance cases? Compensation for injuries is apparently a matter for the Minister of Industry, who is responsible for ensuring that insurance companies comply with the principles of good insurance practice. It is supposedly the FSA that can monitor that it happens. On the other hand, it is quite unclear who is supervising specialists hired by insurance companies. I would like to thank the Minister for Business for taking the problem seriously. In fact, I recognise that the Minister has worked with determination to find a good solution to the problems which the injured parties point to, although work, like many other tasks, seems to have been somewhat delayed by corona. In fact, I also believe that the Danish People's Party will kick in an open door on that basis. However, provided that the Minister of Industry is prepared to involve the Minister of Health in another discussion which may include those parts of the problem which are precisely health professionals. I am thinking that it might well be a matter of re-discussion, whether the solution is a clarification that the victim should be able to complain about the work of a specialist at the Board of Patient Safety, or whether some form of formalized supervision of specialist work for insurance companies and perhaps also municipalities can even be established. And I really hope that the Minister of Industry can now give an undertaking to make such an attempt. It will be essential for a solid solution to the problem that the two resort areas both contribute to the solution. Otherwise, I can be concerned that the injured person can once again land between two chairs. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party on the problem, but I think that the health-care approach should be included in the final solution, and I would like to help work on that. It could be in committee, with it could also be in the work that has already been started in the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201736	Thank you. And thank you for your great goodwill. And then I'd like to say that this isn't just like what we were three parties agreed on. It is a precise transcript of the points on which we agreed and on which we stood together. That is why my question will be very brief. It is whether the rapporteur's party is now not sure whether it is the rapporteur himself who will be working for these points to be included in the Minister's work. Because that is not what the Minister wanted to involve, so I ask the rapporteur if that is something the rapporteur will be working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201810-2	May I add what I was also trying to stress at the end, particularly in relation to the problem of health care: who controls the work of these specialists? Who checks that the work carried out in relation to the second opinion of insurance companies actually meets medical standards? How is it that two doctors to the same patient may end up having two different conclusions as to what kind of damage the patient has sustained? In fact, I think this is quite crucial for the sense of justice and also for the sense of being able to rely on the work that has been done to be something that can be expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201852	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201855	Will the rapporteur's party work to ensure that it is the citizen who can also choose his own specialist without having only the opportunity to choose from?
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201906	In fact, I think that there has been such a very fine principle in the past, in which a list of specialists in various areas of specialty could be chosen. These are exactly the lists that I would very much like to have returned to and applied in practice again. We know them for the area of occupational injury, and I am sure they can also be transferred to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201930	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526201940	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. It is a much needed attempt to resolve a well-known problem. Nor is the motion for a resolution unknown, as it is largely the result of the discussions that have taken place between the Danish People's Party, the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, to find a solution to the quite unreasonable situation in which people who are exposed to an accident may be at risk when they have their insurance case dealt with. After all, the problem has been that citizens who have suffered an accident in which they have suffered whiplash or concussion have been in a deeply unreasonable and unhappy situation. On the one hand, they have been exposed to an accident that turns their life situation upside down. On the other hand, everything they have been used to coping has changed, emotional life may have been affected, the consequences for your loved ones, loved ones and family are great. An accident may mean that the victim loses his job or has to drop his education. In addition to being an unhappy social event, it often means a hard struggle to maintain a dependency base. It is therefore quite unreasonable for the injured parties also to see that they have to engage in a grueling struggle to obtain recognition of their damage and thus receive compensation from the insurance they have subscribed. Fortunately, it rarely happens, but it happens. This is a problem we have known for a long time and solutions have been sought, but it has not succeeded. It is extremely unfair when we see examples of insurance companies which have refused to use approved specialists without any justification other than that they are entitled to do so. It is deeply unfair when insurance companies have tried to push through their preferred choice of specialist. For there is the victim is in a vulnerable position, while the insurance company can draw on all the advice and assistance it has at its disposal. It is therefore quite unreasonable for insurance companies to have a right of veto to opt out of specialists for no other reason than that they can. It should be possible to ensure that the victim has the right to choose a specialist on the basis of specific criteria relating to specialty, waiting and geography. The motion for a resolution here is an attempt to find a solution to this problem. We fully support the fact that we now need to understand that there are probes going on between the various parties over in the Ministry of Business, and that is with the involvement of all the relevant stakeholders. We consider this to be extremely positive, and we would like to sign off on the fact that this work is under way. However, the fact that we are standing here today as health rapporteurs and discussing the subject also clearly shows that it will be necessary to involve the Ministry of Health in a common solution. If the parties in agreement can reach a solution acceptable to all parties, I would not want to stand here and drag a certain solution over the heads of the parties involved. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that it would be sensible to wait for the outcome of the discussions before adopting the motion for a resolution. That is why I hope that the Danish People's Party is willing to take it back to committee and see if we can make a joint report, or at least wait for the outcome of the discussions between the parties, so that we can ensure a viable solution. If, on the other hand, it does not exist, we are quite ready to look again at the proposal. So with the positive words, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution, and then I hope that the parties together will find a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202329	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202339	Thank you, President. Thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a very important issue, and many of us have been wondering for a very long time about how this is practiced in this area. After all, we have repeatedly seen cases where the injured party has felt run over and where there have been doubts about the objectivity of the specialist. There is, of course, nothing to say about this when the insurance companies alone have been able to impose on them which specialists should assess the cases and when there has been money directly between the specialist and the insurance company and the victim has not had the opportunity to influence which specialist should make the declaration. Of course, this needs to be done, and in the Conservative People's Party we support the principles of objectivity and neutrality. Of course, personal injuries must be treated in a neutral, objective and fair manner. We also note that Insurance & Pension, which is of course an interbranch organisation for insurance companies, has adopted new principles which, to a certain extent, go in the right direction and which put the victim in a better position than is the case today. However, insurance & Pension's new principles are only recommendations to insurance companies so that legislation is needed in this area. We therefore call on the Minister for Industry to call for negotiations as soon as possible so that we can ensure that medical declarations are neutral, objective and fair and to the full satisfaction of the victims. On this basis, therefore, we cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal in its entirety, but we support the intentions of neutrality and objectivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202541	Thank you for the floor. Motion for a resolution B 88 has some good points in it in relation to transparency. I shall come back to that, but overall we cannot support the proposal. After all, the proposal has four elements. The first element is that an insured person must be able to veto a specialist. We do not believe that an insured person should be able to veto the fact that a case is fully disclosed, because it is true what the minister and several rapporteurs have said, namely that the medical specialist's statement is not a decision. It is equal to a basis for a decision. So if you make this independent body that is being proposed, then things can drag on, and that is unnecessary bureaucracy. There's the good thing in the next two elements that they're talking about a bigger transparency, and this larger transparency is something you should be working for. In practice, I find it a little difficult to see how such a list of specialists should work in an appropriate way. This may well be resolved, but the concept of economic relations should also be looked at. If it is in the proposal that a doctor and an insurance company are not allowed to do, for example. We therefore find it very difficult to participate in a cooperation agreement. After all, there is nothing unpleasant about establishing cooperation agreements, and this also has the effect of keeping insurance premiums in order. The fourth element of what one serves as a self-employed person is simply a tooth for Communist for us. The State should not, in principle, determine what self-employed persons earn or what they charge. We don't think we should change that. So thank you for raising the debate. The question of transparency is relevant and important and good, but overall we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202811	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party looking at the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and there is no greeting. It has thus become the rapporteur for the proposer's turn, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526202839	Thank you very much and thank you for the debate. I would like to take the rapporteurs and the Minister and the listeners and the injured and all those who care about it a little back in history, because this started with an article series in the spring of 2019. It was in fact a number of lawyers who, on behalf of the victim, went out and warned that insurance companies were sending customers with whiplash and concussion to certain specialists. The chosen doctors were sceptical about the suffering, and they often made medical statements that insurance companies could use to refuse to pay compensation. It was described in these media. I would say that it was Avisen.dk and A4 Work Life; DR had a broadcast on failure from insurance; B.T. wrote about it too. There was a lot in the media about it, and it did make sure that there were really, very many stories. There came a lot of cases where insurance customers had experienced getting unprofessional, flawed and problematic medical statements. They simply did not get the guidance and statement they needed. They had to fight to find the doctor who had to look again at their health. Some of them were through 4-5-6 different doctors and we are talking about the lack of doctors in Denmark, I say as health rapporteur. As long as these stories were going on, more and more people actually came along, and at the same time there were also some who were employed in the insurance industry who could tell about how they were instructed to treat patients. This led me and some rapporteurs, and these are the two good rapporteurs for the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party respectively, in the Trinity, to think that something should be done in this area. This trinity has been maintained, and we have talked to some of the victims and tried to find out how best to make proposals to meet the challenges. And we came to these points, which are directly and precisely the points we agreed to work for together. I can, of course, hear that the rapporteurs still have that position, but I can also hear that there is a minister who will look at the challenge. We have also got Insurance & Pension onto the trail of something happening. So this is also just to say: it's good to shout, it's good to go together, it's good to press on and hopefully also to push a minister to get to where we can be more sure that you take the victim seriously. We are not saying that we have the very best and clearest solution, but we only know that citizens who are injured must be taken seriously. We agree that there must be transparency, just as we, as health rapporteurs, have often discussed where transparency is when doctors work for pharmaceutical companies or others. It's exactly the same principle. Doctors are allowed to make money, but we just have to make sure that there is no overpayment so that they become addicted and that a dependency relationship is created. There have been cases where it was a little strange that the insurance company only sent cases to one doctor. The same doctor had two clinics and the declarations were always completed for the benefit of the supply company. At the same time, we had some people who had difficulty sustaining their lives. There are a lot of sad stories among those who showed up. I'm not saying that all the victims are right. I'm not saying it's all the doctors who are right either. We've got stumped vessels everywhere. However, we have to accept that there are some diseases that are physical, and it should not just be destroyed because it has not happened in an accident or because it is probably something mental. Because there are people who are suffering and cannot do their job and who actually find it difficult to get the money to strike. Of course, I have considered whether this is going to be voted on, but I also find it interesting that we have some parties including myself who will, of course, try to get an agreement through with the Minister. I hope that some of the points we have raised here will be clarified. So I will do as they say: let it overwinter. That is to say, it may be a while, and if we do not get it out of an agreement that we want, we can make a report. So that's what I suggest we do. Then I would like to thank you for the fine debate and hope that we all agree that we should do what is best for our citizens and hope that we will have a better future for them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203427	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203432	Well, I would just like to sign for cooperation, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is the result of some very persistent people who have pointed out that we have a problem here and that this is what we are working to resolve. I also think that this is a perfectly correct solution which the rapporteur chooses in relation to the proposal here, namely that we are now leaving it alone, and then we always have the opportunity to take it forward again if it is to be expected that it will be needed. But I think it is a very sensible solution, and I would just like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203505	Well, I think it's fine. I hope that you can push something through and that you will see to it that those who have come to us have listened to them and that they are given fair treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203519	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200526203534	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 27 May 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
