ParlaMint-DK_20200115130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: The Minister for Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 93 (Proposal for a law on condominiums). Per Larsen (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 73 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure increased adherence to hpv vaccination). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have to inform you that there has been a questioner, Mrs Bjerre (V), on question No. 2 and 3 (S 534 and S 535) to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. At the same time, I should like to inform you that Anni Matthiesen under No. 9 questions (S 540) put to the Minister for Children and Education will be withdrawn at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130057	The first question is to the Minister of Justice by Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130105	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130108	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's position on giving student salary to the prisoner during his education, and will the government work to secure the salary of the prisoner rather than su when they are on the school bench?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130119	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130121	Thank you for the question of the conversion of su to pupil's salary during school stays to our prison officers. The training, as it stands today, lasts three years and out of the three years, the warden students receive training and are suc cessful for 10 months. The other years and months they receive fixed wages with the possibility of supplements. I understand the question put by the questioner, because it is all because we need prison officers. It is also clear to me that the criminal services staff are very tense, as is the case elsewhere in our criminal justice chain. We need staff in prisons, and this means that we are putting great risks on our skilled prison officers, who are making a lot of effort every day. In fact, as Minister of Justice, I have a great deal of focus on that. I know, and I know this too, that the questioner knows that criminal services are working hard to strengthen recruitment through inter alia. intensive recruitment campaigns and the new educational institution in Vestdanmark, which I myself was about to help open. This must help to ensure that we can train even more officers for the country's prisons and thus ease the pressure on the criminal services staff. It is the case that the political regulation of criminal justice is in a multi-year agreement, in which the author's party is also part of it, and it states that there must be a general review of the training of a prisoner, which we expect to start this year, in other words 2020. We therefore need professionals to look at a review of existing training. I think it would be natural for the issue of student salaries during prison service training to be included as part of the work that we are going to do now. This will ensure that we have an overall basis for assessing how we can create even better and more attractive conditions during the training of a prisoner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130324	Thank you for your answer. What I was asking was also the Minister's position on that. Now I was given a long and good explanation of how and how it is today, but it has been the case in the past that one received a student's salary during the course of the training. It was abolished when Morten Bødskov, I think it was, sat as Minister of Justice. In fact, this has meant that the recruitment of prison officers has been declining. Then I read, among other things. I almost said the article from Dr.dk, which is about the 26-year-old Stefan Christiansen, who was supposed to bring money. In other words, he could hardly cope with the training because he was su; it was difficult. So both he and the Prison Association believe that it would increase the motivation to apply and increase admission to the programme if it were changed so that you received a student's salary during the course. It is true, as the Minister for Justice says, that there is a strong need for this, because we need prison officers. That is why it is also a question of looking at what conditions are offered to them during the course of the training. I had trouble reading the article, what the government meant, to Mr. Jep Bruus, who is the legal rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, says that it is hard to say whether there is a student's salary on the school bench for those who dream of a career as a prisoner. He will not say yes or no to it, but says that it may be something you look at. So I'm gonna have to be completely up to date, considering whether it's the Minister of Justice's opinion that the Minister of Justice wants to help change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130524	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130525	It is absolutely true that our criminal services are very much under pressure. We have over 100 percent. in our prisons and detention houses at the moment, which just says something about how much pressure there is, especially because, according to the agreement that was made, there was to be a coating of 95-96 per cent, as I remember it. I think, as I also said in my reply, that there are good arguments to consider whether, during the ten months of school life, su is the right thing to do and whether it could be made more attractive and recruit more people, recruit more people, recruit older people, recruit people who had done something else in advance, etc., if the composition of that part of the education were changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130607	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130609	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Should I understand that when the Minister calls these negotiations, it will be part of the government's presentation, that is to say, whether to go back to the old system where you had a student's salary during the training so that you can recruit more prison officers? Is that a promise from the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130638	I think it would be natural, now that we are preparing the revision of training as a prison officer by 2020, that the issue of student pay during prison service training should also be included as part of that work. When I was about to open the new prison school in Jutland, there were a number of pupils who were not young people, and one must at least expect that they are used to having a different income; perhaps they had a different education in advance and so on. I think it is important that we can recruit our prison officers widely, also so that they have a broad experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130715	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130716	It is true that many of them are not young, but have family and children and house to be paid. However, I take this as an indication from the Minister for Justice that this is an area that the Minister for Justice will certainly help to change and that the Minister will take it into account in these negotiations and will also make a presentation on how we can ensure that there are better conditions, so that we can recruit more prison officers. Because there is a great need for them and a great lack of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130752	Thank you. That's the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130753	What is being said is quite right, and I think it would be natural, as I said, that we should also come up with this question when we are going to make the revision of training a prisoner this year. I hope, of course, that the questioner himself will be involved in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130817	Thank you. It's for the Social and Interior Ministers. It's by Louise Schack Elholm, Left. There's a co-questioner, Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130828	Thank you so much. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior is: Does the Minister believe that it helps to ensure a better balance for Denmark when the Minister moves state jobs in the Ankestyrelsen from Ringsted to Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115130847	The government, like the questioner, is concerned that there are government jobs throughout Denmark, and I would like to start by stating that the restructuring of the Ankestyrelsen is part of an overall solution in the social and domestic field, where the level of government jobs in Ringsted is maintained and where the Ankestyrelsen maintains the level of government jobs outside Copenhagen. This is not even true, because we increase the number of government jobs outside Copenhagen under the auspices of the Ankestyrelsen and the reason is quite simple, and the solution makes good sense. Today the Ankestyrelsen has three addresses: one in Aalborg, one in Copenhagen and a small department in Ringsted with approx. Twenty years' worth of work. The premises in Ringsted rent the Ankestyrelsen of the Familieretshuset. This year, the family courthouse has received an additional appropriation of 104 million from the Finance Act. kr. The money must include: is used to hire more employees. About 20 of the Familieretshuset's new employees get a place of employment in Ringsted, which means that the Familieretshuset itself will need the premises that the Familieretshuset rents today. New state jobs for Ringsted are therefore the reason why the Familieretshuset has terminated the lease of the Ankestyrelsen from 1 March this year. After the termination of the contract, the Ankestyrelsen moves 20 years' work from Ringsted to Copenhagen, so they have two addresses rather than three, but at the same time the Ankestyrelsen expands its department in Aalborg by approx. 20 years' work towards 2022. So to sum up, I would like to emphasise once again: the restructuring of the Ankestyrelsen is part of an overall solution where the level of state jobs in Ringsted is maintained and where we increase the level of state jobs outside Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131022	It was, of course, a rather intricate answer to my question whether the Ankestyrelsen removed jobs from Ringsted. Because you got the answer that the lease had been terminated by the Family Court House because the Family Court House is expanding, but my question went to the Ankestyrelsen alone. Therefore, I would like the Minister to spell out: Will there be more or fewer employees in the Ankestyrelsen in Ringsted, and will there be fewer units on which the Ankestyrelsen gathers in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131056	But it is clear that this does not fit very well into the picture that the rapporteur would like to draw. It is no good looking at the blind eye and closing our eyes to the fact that with the solution we are now getting, Ringsted will retain the number of state jobs they have had and, overall, we will have more state jobs outside Copenhagen than the previous government had proposed. Of course, it is a bit of a self-interest to ask a question which shows that this government actually provides more state jobs outside Copenhagen than the questioner's own government, but that is nevertheless what is on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131126	Again, the Minister failed to answer whether the Ankestyrelsen is centralized to two matricles instead of three. Since you are so worried about the lease, I know that Ringsted Municipality would very much like to help the Ankestyrelsen find other places to be if it was that the Familieretshuset threw them out, as I understand from the Minister that the Familieretshuset has done. That was not the impression I had of the situation. But can the Minister confirm that one goes from having three locations for the Ankestyrelsen to having two, and would the Minister call it a decentralization or centralisation of the Ankestyrelsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131203	All the time that Aalborg, even though it is called the Paris of the North, is, as I know, not the capital of the country, it cannot be a centralisation in Copenhagen that we secure more state jobs in Aalborg and, overall, have a result where there are more state jobs outside Copenhagen. I know what kind of political picture you want to draw. I can of course read that the questioner has been out in the press in advance to say that she is deeply concerned and that now the government is centralising instead. The only problem is that it's not what's on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131230	I have to say that I am surprised that the Minister will not admit that the Minister centralises it by going from three to two places to have the Anke Board. I understand that, because it is a bad case, because you have said that you want to maintain Denmark in a better balance, and that is the opposite of what you are doing. You choose to say that you go from having three units where the Ankestyrelsen is to having only two units. It's a centralization, and it's removing the Ankestyrelsen from Ringsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131259	What happens in the Ankestyrelsen is that the municipal and regional supervision is brought together. You can move into the rooms where you already are. You can free up resources. For this reason, it is economical and it ensures shorter processing times for citizens, and professional synergy can be achieved. When you can do so, while ensuring that Ringsted retains its number of state jobs, and you can increase the number of state jobs outside Copenhagen more than the previous government proposed, then I have to say that it is just before, after all, a cheek egg with three good things at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131327	Thank you for that, and that is the questioner Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131329	I think that is a rather intricate answer given by the Minister. They say the family courthouse needs the lease from the Ankestyrelsen, yet the lease for the Ankestyrelsen has been terminated. So I just want to know if the minister is shutting down the Ankestyrelsen in Ringsted and thus getting the lease terminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131355	I admit that I am not the minister who sits with my fingers down in how to deal with leases and cancel leases. The family courthouse has rented these rooms to the Ankestyrelsen. Now, as a government, we have set aside 104 million. kr. together with our parties to the Finance Act for the Family Court to hire more. This means that the Familieretshuset will use the lease they otherwise had rented out to the Ankestyrelsen, because there will be more government employees in the Familieretshuset in Ringsted. That means they've canceled the Ankestyrelsen's lease.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131427	Then I understand that these 20 jobs that you move from Ringsted, because you close the Ankestyrelsen in Ringsted, you move to Copenhagen. Couldn't they have been moved to the Aalborg Agency instead? Why is it that there is a need to move more jobs to the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131448	Thank you. It is, of course, a professional assessment that it makes real sense for citizens in relation to processing times and the professional synergy that comes from the pooling of municipal and regional supervision. But it has been important to me that, at the same time, we have increased the number of jobs in Aalborg. I think the questioner is actually very pleased with that, given where she is elected. It is important for us that we ensure that there is a balance and that we have state jobs outside Copenhagen, which is why I am just happy that on the bottom line we provide more state jobs outside Copenhagen than what the questioner's party did when it was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131523	Thank you. Last round, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131526	Then I just want to ask the Minister as the last question on this: the Minister says that you have been terminated, and that is why, unfortunately, you have to move all the employees from the Ankestyrelsen to Copenhagen. Have you tried to find other rentals in Ringsted? Because one might want to maintain that the Ankestyrelsen was located on three matricles instead of two, and then it would be natural to search the possibility of finding other premises. Has the Ankestyrelsen been looking for other premises in Ringsted?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131558	In fact, I think the questioner knows the answer to that, because I have said this very clearly in the newspaper story, which I think the questioner has called up on the basis of. This is not because this is part of a comprehensive solution whereby the Family Court increases the number of state jobs, so that Ringsted retains its number of state jobs and where you can move into some premises you already have and thus save the money that would otherwise have been spent on obtaining new premises. You can work more closely with colleagues who sit with the same. It is all for the benefit of citizens who will experience a faster processing time, and then we will increase the number of jobs in Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131633	Thank you, and the question is closed. There is a new question for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Louise Schack Elholm, Left, and again with questioner Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131640	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131642	Is it the government's ambition during this term to move more state jobs out of the capital than to the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131650	As the overall solution with the restructuring of the Ankestyrelsen demonstrates, the government is preoccupied with the same as I assume the questioner is that there are government jobs throughout Denmark. As the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, of course, I am also concerned that there is a job to be done in the province and in the edges of our country. There is more grip on getting jobs throughout Denmark than moving around in jobs. After all, it is not only a question of moving jobs, but also of creating new jobs outside the metropolitan area, for example. In my own area, I can inform you that the House of Family Rights has been allocated 104 million this year. kr. in the Finance Act to reduce processing times. For these funds, some 115 new employees will have to be recruited by 2020, and of this it is planned to place approx. 80, i.e. the vast majority, outside Copenhagen. In addition, as you know, the government supports and follows up on the implementation of Better Balance Sheet and Better Balance Sheet II.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131740	It was a long talk, so I'm just gonna try to follow up on whether the minister will actually follow up on these relocation plans. Because it hasn't all been implemented yet. And now we can see that the Minister chooses to use an opportunity to centralize the Ankestyrelsen. So is it the same thing that's gonna happen to the other things? We still have to move jobs in the Danish Energy Agency to Stenlille and jobs in Nota to Nykøbing Falster and jobs to Holbæk too. Is it expected that jobs will continue to be relocated? Or are we going to look at the fact that we are now going to have to make some efficiency considerations, which means that we are now starting to centralise again in the administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131824	Firstly, I would like to say that I had actually expected and thought that the rapporteur would sign that, when this government creates 115 new state jobs, we would place the vast majority of them outside Copenhagen. However, it is as if everything that does not fit in with the template with which the rapporteur has gone in the Chamber and in the local press is slipping away. I said very clearly, and I would like to repeat it very clearly: the government supports and follows up the implementation of better balance sheet and better balance sheet II. The previous government can be quite calm about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131853	Thank you. There's another question. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131900	I am very sorry that I cannot be completely calm, because one thing is what the government says: something else is what you do. And when you choose to centralize the Ankestyrelsen by placing it only on two matricles instead of the three on which it was on, it shows that you don't have a heart for this decentralization. That's why I'm worried. I do not have a template with which I have the list of questions here, and the Minister is welcome to look. It's just that I remember what kind of question I had written up, because you have to say it word for word. But basically I have to say that I am very concerned about the way this government is acting, because it is not enough to say things; it is also necessary to act on them. And that is exactly the opposite of what the minister does when the minister closes the Ankestyrelsen in Ringsted and centralizes it to two units instead of three. And that is why it is quite natural to ask whether there is anything else that follows, and whether you are going to follow it up and make sure that things move out, or whether you are going to start talking about efficiency • an excuse to centralise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131956	Thank you. And the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115131957	It is a government which does not have a heart for decentralisation, says the rapporteur of the party which, fortunately, was prevented from one of the major centralisation exercises since the municipal reform, which was also the author's party, namely where the regions would be closed down. I do not think that we should start to discuss this kind of discussion about who has done the most centralisation in this country, because then I think that the arrow will point very clearly to the author's party. So, you have to be relatively poor at arithmetic if you're going to make this very worrying when we create 115 new jobs in the family courthouse and the 80 are going to be outside Copenhagen. When we have a further 20 jobs outside Copenhagen, compared to what the previous government proposed, we are in plus with about 100 jobs in favour of decentralization. Second Vice-President Thank you). I just wanted to say that to the rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132048	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132050	In the Left, we are very pleased that the Minister says that there is indeed a focus on moving jobs out of the capital. I understand the Minister's desire to do so, and she says that the focus is on moving jobs out. I also hear from the previous replies that the Minister says that this government actually provides far more jobs outside Copenhagen than the last Left Government. I think I just need an explanation for that, because we made historical relocations. Can it really be true that the government is planning to relocate even more state jobs? In that case, we're happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132127	As I have said, there are several ways of ensuring that jobs and balance exist in our country, and I would just like to say that the previous government moved out some state jobs, but at the same time it created, for example, jobs. massive savings in education that matter. I do not think we should go very many places in the province until we can recognise that there are closed educational establishments, and in this way some of the things that make it possible for there to be a local economy and jobs, namely that there is a trained population, are closed. So I just have to say: house by and self-target in relation to this question. We are behind a better balance and the relocation of state jobs, in other words the implementation of it. We have shown that when we create new state jobs, as we do now with the House of Family Rights, which we have set aside over 100 million. kr. If so, most of the jobs will be created outside Copenhagen. And when we do a restructuring, as we have done with the Ankestyrelsen, we stand together and get more jobs outside Copenhagen and therefore also outside the capital. Although the questioner may think it wrong that this is the case, Aalborg is not the country's capital, which is why it is not moving jobs to the capital when creating more jobs in Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132230	I understand that the Minister would very much like to talk about training rather than the relocation of jobs, which this question is actually about. But we're worried because they've shut down the Anke Agency in Ringsted. After all, one of the jobs in the province has been closed down, which we think is so important. That is what you do, I understand, because there is a need for restructuring. And when you are elected and live in North Jutland, as the Minister also points out, you get even more nervous, because does the Minister also plan that the government will centralise further and close the Aalborg Anke Authority and move it all to Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132307-2	Excuse me if I came to call it a template issue before, but when we find ourselves in a situation where the government increases the number of government jobs in Aalborg by 20 and you can use it as a starting point to be concerned that we should be in the process of shutting down the Aalborg board, then I think you simply have to be very special in mind in order to be able to draw that conclusion. Well, we strengthen the Aalborg Agency with 20 jobs overall. Ringsted is kept stable with state jobs. Overall, there will be more state jobs, both relocated and new, under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132344	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132346	I have to say that it is a good speech about bypassing, fine plunder, but not so much action. I didn't expect anything else either, because that's the way the political game is. But just to try to get some facts out of this, I would like to ask how the Minister sees things going forward. Has the plans changed compared with the other relocation projects on the Minister's authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132416-2	As I said a few times, we are going to implement better balance sheets, both I and II. I find it very difficult to see that it was supposed to be plunder and no action. When we create 115 new jobs under the auspices of the Family Court House, the 80, by far the majority, are outside the capital. These are new jobs. When we restructure, we will, of course, ensure that the Ankestyrelsen gets 20 new jobs in Aalborg. It cannot be said of course, because we have had governments in the past that have centralised violently, and when we want to invest in our country and, for example, in our country. If we are to ensure that there are welfare training courses throughout the country, it is to do something about the centralisation that the Left Government stood for, where many people in places in the country have seen educational establishments closed down with all the consequences of centralisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132458	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the tax minister, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132511	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132512	What thoughts does the Minister have on the CEPOS report, which shows that the largest Danish companies are the ones we call the C20 companies • paying 56 per cent. of their total corporation tax in Denmark, while only 11% of their total corporation tax in Denmark. in this country, and is the government still working for a common tax base in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132538	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132540	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the question. The government is thinking a lot about this very issue, and we are doing so because we have an ambitious approach to international tax issues. For the government, it is important that no matter what type of business you run and whoever you are, you have to make a sufficient contribution to the community of which you are a part. This also applies to digital companies with very low or no corporate tax at all. Against this background, we are working internationally for an ambitious global solution that will ensure fair taxation for all companies. It is absolutely essential that the world's largest and richest companies pay the tax they have to pay, as indeed all other companies have to. The challenge of taxation of these companies is global and can therefore best be solved globally. In concrete terms, the government is currently constructively involved in current discussions under the auspices of the OECD, in particular on global standards for effective minimum taxation, which can ensure that no company can avoid contributing to the community or can obtain unfair competitive advantages. However, we are aware that some of the work being done in the OECD can, overall, have negative consequences for Denmark, as the proposals in the OECD at present and at present are not limited to the activities of digital companies in the country of consumption, as it says, but also affect the taxation of other types of companies' turnover abroad. We believe that Danish companies should be taxed mainly in Denmark and not in the countries where they have their sales. We should not undermine Danish corporate income tax and hence the financing of our welfare and ambitious climate policy. We are also working to introduce a bottom below corporate tax in the EU in order to reduce inappropriate corporate tax competition within the EU, thereby reducing the pressure on Danish corporate income tax revenue. For a bottom to work effectively, both a minimum below the corporate tax rate, as the questioner rightly knows, and harmonisation of the corporate tax base, are required. My time has now elapsed, but I can see from the questioner that it was enough for there to be a follow-up question as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132803	Well, it's only round one, hopefully, that's it. I would like to thank you for the kindness of the tax minister here, because when I am particularly interested in the government's position, it is because of the reports that the party to which the tax minister belongs has made in the past. So, in the EU election campaign, which I am sure we all have fresh memories of, I at least noted that Mr. Jeppe Kofod was a warm supporter of the part of the European Commission's tax proposal, which is about a common tax base, what is called CCCTB, so I think everyone should know what we are talking about and there it might be nice if the Minister could say quite clearly just that the social democracy that went to the European Parliament elections was, in other words, a social democracy other than that which is currently in government or rather that the policy that was before the European Parliament elections has not been taken into government offices. The report I am referring to from the think tank CEPOS illustrates that there will be a loss of 14 billion. If we follow the Commission's proposals and abandon the surplus tax that we have today and move on to the turnover tax that the European Commission is proposing. That is why it can be very important for the Kingdom's finances if we choose to follow the European Commission's proposals, as Mr. So Jeppe Kofod wanted at least about six months ago. He has since gained a glorious career and joined the government, so perhaps the tax minister will make it absolutely clear, both to the viewers outside and also for information within the government, the members of the government, which of the two Social Democrats has entered the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115132946	These are the same Social Democrats who sit in government and just to sum up, I can say that, following what I said earlier, there is at present. Indeed, there is no EU proposal for minimum harmonisation of the corporate tax rate, but, as has already been said, there are also ongoing discussions in the OECD on a global standard for effective minimum tax. However, with regard to the CCCTB proposal, which is being asked, this implies harmonisation of the corporate tax base, which is significantly narrower and less robust than the applicable Danish rules. This is due in particular to the fact that we have a number of safeguards in this area which go beyond what has been proposed in the proposal for a directive. This so-called proposal, the CCCTB proposal, can therefore, in isolation, result in a significant reduction in Danish corporate tax revenue unless, at the same time, there is a significant increase in the rate. However, we support overall ambitions with the CCCTB as a possible component in establishing a bottom-up of corporate taxation in the EU. I think that is important to emphasise. It's a piece of work that's going on, and this is part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133056	In my past as a European parliamentarian, I have taken part in a great many debates on this, including with Commission officials and Members, where we are not hiding what we want and that it is precisely the transfer of corporate taxation to a turnover-based system. This is what the Minister also confirms will have major economic consequences for Denmark. So if that is the proposal that the Commission is making, I would just like to know whether the government will use its right of veto and vote 'no' and say 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133132	It's way too early to say anything about where these things land. I think the questioner knows that too. A lot of things are happening. Something is happening particularly in the OECD at the moment, which the government is following very closely, as I explained. Many things are happening at the moment, as I have said, in a number of areas, and the government is following this closely. So throwing the veto card here and there and everywhere, as one could understand the questioner would, is not relevant to discuss at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133205	No, it is never the case when you ask the EU's supporters. Nobody dares ever threaten with a veto. Well, maybe you should try it just for once. It is not the case that it is only joy and bliss that emanates from Brussels rather the opposite. There are a lot of things, I know, with which the Minister and his colleagues are struggling, so perhaps there was some reason to say "no' in advance, and especially in an area where Denmark has a right of veto. I assume the Minister can confirm that this area is one where Denmark could stop the train. So if we agree that we do not want the proposal that the Commission is working on, why not just say stop immediately so that we do not have to spend time and effort discussing it anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133245	What if the negotiations that are taking place will actually lead to something better? Well, then I think you should take it with you. That is where we need to think, and at the moment, as I said, there are a great many discussions going on in this area. This is an important area and I think we actually share that view. Also for Denmark and the Danish economy and the community fund, this is an important area. So I think it is important that we use the channels we have and work on the basis, if you like, of a protection for the Community's cash register, so we have money for everything we would also like to spend money on in the future. That's what the government's strategy is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133321	The question is closed. In fact, we should go further with a question to the Minister for Children and Education, but the questioner, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, Socialist People's Party, is not here, so we have to wait for another good time, and that also applies to the next question, namely both Questions 5 and 6. The following questioner cannot know that the first questioner is not here, so let's just wait a minute. We're gonna take a little break. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133619	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133621	Thank you very much for that, President. What is the Minister's view that pupils are absent from school for training for driving licence category B for cars and are either unable to follow driving lessons or are at risk of being thrown out of school for driving licences?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133640	I simply love it when there are such regular disagreements in the Folketing, and that is why I have actually been sitting and having a little fun over this question, because it simply made me want to ask the opposite way, which I do not quite know if you can when you have become a minister. But if you think it's okay that students just stay away from school because they have to take a driver's license, is it really if they're going to take a hunting sign? I don't know what the hell people go and take of that kind of excuse, at least you can't say that because students can come up with all sorts of things they need; it can be a driver's license, or whatever. The question is whether I think it is okay to spend precious teaching time paid by taxpayers on taking their driving licence. My answer is no. You can spend your spare time on that. There are also summer holidays and late afternoons and all sorts of other times, so I certainly do not think that this is an appropriate way of organizing society. I therefore think it is absolutely right that, first of all, we should have absenteeism and, secondly, if we continue to have too much absenteeism, we risk losing the opportunity to go up to the exam. Surely we must be sure of what we can do when we have finished our education, and that includes not even taking a driving licence or hunting sign or whatever else people can do in their spare time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133759	Strangely enough, I fully agree with the Minister. After all, the Danish People's Party has also been front fighters for the fact that absenteeism should be registered. I am not saying that you should take your driving licence while you are in high school; that is not the case at all. But it is just the case that, on the other hand, drivers are affected by very strict legislation. In other words, if they actually have a pupil, they cannot live up to that legislation if the pupil is not once or twice legally absent. Then I fully understand that you can't give that to everyone. I just think it's too bad. I don't know if it's a hoax, but you can get a sense of that when you hear students say: we get kicked out of school if we're gone for one hour because the bus is late. But is there anything that can be misunderstood in the communication that comes out about registering absenteeism?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133853	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115133854	I really find that difficult to say, i.e. whether it can be misunderstood. I do not think anyone has ever expected that part of taking your youth education is to take a driving licence. There may be all sorts of exciting things you want, which are beyond what is in your school curriculum. This must be done in your spare time, and if it is not possible, you have to wait until you have finished taking the training you are doing. I am not in favour of the fact that it is said in concrete terms, in human rights or anywhere else, that you should be able to take a driving licence while you are taking tax-financed training. I don't. And I feel like telling the young people that the questioner can almost also hear the way I say it and I would say it if it was my own that came home and said it: okay, is there a little pampering here? Could it be that, when society provides free education, one would have become a little privileged blind if one thought that the biggest problem in the world is that one should postpone obtaining one's driving licence until one has a summer vacation? I am not prepared to change the rules at all. In fact, it did not occur to me to start bothering the country's principals by asking if the communication is okay. I simply think that we are dealing here with a phenomenon in which someone has to tell the young people that we are paying for their education, so they should sort of concentrate on it and then they must do the other things in their spare time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134013	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134014	Basically, we are in complete agreement. The reason why I am raising the issue here is that it should be an approach and an example, because I have personally heard a lot of horror stories about students being threatened with being thrown out. An example could be what was mentioned before, with the bus coming too late, and then you get absenteeism, you have, and that is fair enough, because you are not there, but I am doing more fishing if it is then used as a kind of threat to the students. Is that where we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134043-2	I am very, very concerned to change that announcement of absenteeism. I think it is easy to assess in the classroom as a teacher whether the reason why a student is late is that the bus is late. In other words, over the four or five buses running from one city to another, 200 pupils may be late at the same time because there are delays to this day in public transport. I think that as a teacher one can judge this against a student who is actually just lazy and who practices being late several times a week. In the last case, I think that we should be relatively tough in teaching, but in the first case I think it is possible to say that when so many pupils are late, it is not because some people have not come to teaching out of bad will. I think that these are two different things, and I have emphasized that we are getting the two things separated and thus also changing the notice so that the two things are separated. Then it may take some time for it to go through all the way, but at least that is what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134136	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134141	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134143	No. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134150	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the Government's proposal to set a ceiling on the own-payment of students and parents for study trips is another example of centralisation and increased state control, and that the colleges themselves are able to set a reasonable limit on the own-payment of study trips?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134210-2	In fact, I think it is an imprecise description, because there is really no control in it. That's a rule. But to the second part of the question, whether this is an indication that the Minister is deciding something that you can decide for yourself in high schools today, is the answer yes. Now there was a questioner who didn't show up. There was the question to the contrary, i.e. if I, as a minister, would be kind enough to sit over the table and decide on some municipalities that did something other than what the questioner wanted. After all, there are rules that go one way, where we from in here decide more about them out there, where they have been able to decide for themselves, and so the reverse. Well, there are some things that go out, and then you can decide for yourself out there. And I think that in these years we should feel that for every time we have two going one way, we should have one going the other way. I think I have practiced that, too. For example, I have. This is the question we had before, so that you can, of course, in the classroom decide for yourself what absenteeism registration should be. So that's where we sent something the other way. I think that there has been too much centralisation, so when I do this it is of course with a great deal of seriousness and, incidentally, reflection. And I'd say that I would have wanted the high schools to find out for themselves. We can only note that, in view of the information provided by the Danish Gymnasium, there has been, at least as they say it.I don't know if the figures are conclusively true only 75% that have made rules for this. That is to say, in 25%. In the case of youth training, the cost of training for parents has been up to the level of grabs. I don't think that's gonna work. So this is actually an example of how I had hoped that now they have had 10 years to prove whether or not they could find out for themselves how to manage it. Turned out they couldn't. I'm super sorry about that. I would like them to be able to decide for themselves out there, but it has developed in a way that I think is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134359	But that is perhaps one of the things that confuses us a little, that is, that one day the Minister moves in one direction and the next moves in the other direction. One day the Minister thinks the teachers can find out for themselves, but the next day she cuts through and says that she does not trust the heads of schools in terms of being able to take responsibility. Maybe that's where we also think it seems a little illogical. The minister has been out saying that a ceiling should be set. I think 3 000 kroner has been said, and then I know that some of the support parties may have meant something else, so now we have to see where it lands. Is the Minister not worried about some of the places where we have actually lived up to some of the agreements we have on internationalisation, where we actually use it to take on, for example. A study trip which is longer than Copenhagen, which is also outside the country's borders, that is to say that the Minister will now limit those opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134508	Well, I think that is a real dilemma. On the one hand, there is a desire for free education, in which everyone has the opportunity to participate, and on the other hand, a desire to be able to go to Japan whenever you want, if that is where the new world lies. I think that is simply a real dilemma. I also hope that the rapporteur of the Left will really acknowledge this. I think that we in Denmark would like education to be free of charge. If, as a society, we consider that part of education, and indeed an important part of education, is going to Japan, who is going to pay for it? What does it have to do with our view that education should be free of charge? I think that is a crazy difficult dilemma, I would like to say. What we have done now as a government is to declare it. I think it is well known to everyone that we are not a majority government, and that is why it is going to be a debate. I have a strong hope that this is something that we can land together with each other. I have heard that there are a lot of different views on this. I hope that we can sit down around a table and then I hope that as many people as possible will join us and that we can land something where we will have this dilemma taken into account. However, I fully acknowledge what the questioner says. There is no easy problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134612	Thank you. Then we have the co-questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134618	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to follow up where my good colleague took the initiative, namely in relation to this issue of where tasks are to be handled. In other words, it is the Minister who, as per per. desk practice should decide what to look like in the education sector, or do we really have confidence in our teachers, our managements, our student councils and our school boards on the individual institutions? After all, this is fundamental to the culture of trust that we have in relation to the debate on equal access to education, and it is quite relevant, we fully recognise it, and there are some places where we have seen examples that study trips have become too expensive. But are we going to regulate it from in here, or are we going to make sure that this discussion is anchored in the student council, in the school board, also in relation to finding solutions so that the study trips do not get a price level so that all pupils cannot participate? I can only say that I have received a specific request from, among others. Chinese teacher's association in high school, which is in the situation that there are skilled students who take Chinese at a high level and then will no longer be able to go to China, even if they are passionate about it and that would be deeply relevant. Because the Minister will make that impossible, and we do not really think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134728	I almost want to ask such a counter-question. Okay, if it's that they're going on a Chinese trip and it costs $50,000. After all, we have a long tradition of sharing with each other in ensuring that there is free training and if part of our training provision becomes so expensive that it is reserved for a few, then we will probably have to deal with it in some way, for example. by giving schools economics to what we believe to be so and so many should be able to go to, something that we think is absolutely crucial for our society. We can discuss that with each other. Well, you're welcome to bring that to the table. I'm actually thinking that we should negotiate this with each other and invite all the parties of the Folketing. So if what the Left is saying is that the Left thinks that we should provide an economy to ensure, for example, that we do not lose sight of it. We must be able to go to China, and they have an idea of where the money is to be taken, it is interesting and let us talk about it. Or is it the case that the Left does not have a limit at all, so that it can be set at any amount, so that, as far as the things to which we pay tax dollars in the educational system are concerned, it is so that the place of education in question can choose anything, which then sorts out a very large proportion of the population in relation to something that they help to pay through the tax? I think these are some very difficult dilemmas. But I hope 1) that the Left is going to negotiate this and 2) that, moreover, this dilemma is acknowledged. Surely it is not straight forward that it will then be for some, even if we all go and pay taxes into our education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134851	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134853	The Left always attends the debates we are called for. If you look at the surveys made for the upper secondary school organisations and for the vocational schools organisations, I assume that the minister has also received reports on the board, then there are a large number of institutions that already have a ceiling today. I believe that the reports we have received show that the average out there is about 4,000 kroner. For there is For education must be equal for everyone, but we do not share the view of the Minister that everything should be regulated in detail zealously by Christiansborg. We believe in the fact that some solutions can be found locally, which we can already see are in full bloom, where in some places people say that there is a high-level team, which is a very special high-level team, and where, of course, we must ensure that all students on that high-level team are included. Such solutions will not be possible in the future with the Minister's proposals, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134944	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115134945	Thank you. For Danish high schools, this is a competitive parameter. So, the high schools compete with each other to attract students, on the basis of how cool study trips you can offer, and Danske Gymnasier, the organization for the high schools, has said that they want there to be a ceiling. They think I've set it too low, but they want a ceiling. Because they are fully aware that, because it is a competitive parameter, they are going to raise and raise it to make it more and more exciting, so that more and more students come to their school and then they get the taximeter. So they have simply expressed a desire for a ceiling. So it's just to say that when people come and say that it would be better for them if we made some rules centrally, think, then I'm actually open to it. Where I am then also open is when they come and talk about the rigid rules of absence that the previous government made. Do you really think it works particularly well? So I think you should be open to the input that comes, and I hope that the Left will come and negotiate this with an open mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135050	Then it's the questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135050-2	I have to say, I'm afraid this might be just as rich. Because I can already imagine all the controls that will then have to be carried out afterwards in order to know whether they will keep the ceiling in place, for example. the 3,000 kroner. That's why I'm nervous about this. I'm worried that we're starting to get involved in something we should really keep our hands off. I have a very specific question, and I know that some people are out there waiting for an answer. Will this also apply to agricultural training and eud? I know that many agricultural schools have put their courses and studies in particular on the basis that they also have the opportunity to do so, for example. to see agriculture in the United States or other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135134	This applies to all of the country's upper secondary education. So our proposal is that it is all education, and it is on the basis of the consideration that our starting point is that it is a very good idea that education is free of charge, and that means that if there is a very high cost of education, we simply do not think it is fair. We are all going to pay taxes and have an expectation that our children will be able to get through an education without having to cost us a lot of money, which means that this dilemma is simply something we have to solve in a different way. I am open to the negotiations, you are welcome to put anything on that table, and then we will have to discuss it, and if there are some good, healthy and sensible variants of how we can do this, then I am open to hearing it. However, I think that we should, together with each other, see that this is a dilemma. I love educational trips, and that means that on the one hand there is something about wanting to open up the world to children and young people, especially those who have not been shown the world from home, and on the other hand we must not make things so expensive that it is a huge pressure on ordinary Danish families, so that they cannot pay for their young people going on youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135232	Thank you. The question is over. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education by Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135240	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135242	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that there is still a marked difference in the amount of taximeter grants for the different types of upper secondary education and that the vocational and commercial upper secondary educations receive a smaller taximeter grant in a number of areas, and will the Government undertake to change this in a future taximeter reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135302	The beard of this question is that because the Left and the Social Democratic Party currently have a majority in the Folketing, I almost want to say that if you do, I also have the opportunity to do so, you might say. If you don't, it's gonna be a little difficult. After all, we are about to get taximeters and institutional audits and get that report from them, because there has been a desire on the part of the previous government, which started it, that we went in and got a look at this. I think that was extremely sensible for the previous government to start, and when I have chosen to continue it, it is because I think it is extremely sensible to go in and look at it. I believe that in all the years I have been in the Folketing, whether I have sat on one or the other or the third chair, I have been involved in trying to lift the fact that there was an imbalance in this system of the kind that the Left promises. So it's close that I'm going to say that if you want to commit yourself to having us look at it, then we can do the best attempt in the whole world to get it leveled out. It's complicated, too. Now we had just the agricultural schools up, and it's a huge myriad, and I actually think Ellen Trane Nørby is one of those who knows the system best, i.e.. also know how incredibly many different things need to be taken into account in order to get it done fairly. But I would certainly like to guarantee that I will do the best I can at all to ensure that we do it in a balanced and fair way and get those things right, and I am convinced that the Left will, as it was you who set the work in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135426	Don't forget to use direct indictment and to say Mr. and Mrs. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135432	Thank you. I can say clearly that the Left stands by our previous commitment that we want there to be equality. It was a work that we started while we were in government too at the more symbolic level, for example. when to call oneself a student, and various other things, but it is basically a question of equality, in which we also now regulate the different directions of our upper secondary education in the same legislation. This is important and the taximeter reform is necessary to ensure economic equality as well. In the Committee on Children's and Education, some of the synergy schools, i.e. some of the commercial colleges which are currently working to have a completely different economy from the general colleges, were taking place. They had submitted calculations which they had also consolidated in the Modernisation Authority, which showed that a commercial gymnasium of their size had roughly on the bottom line 4 million. kr. less than if they had been a general high school. It is calculations that have been made here in the Folketing. Basically, we do not think this is right, and that is why we started to look after the taximeters, because we want there to be the same basis for educating our young people wherever you live in the country, but also whether you choose a mercantile-oriented education, a technically oriented education or a generally oriented secondary school education, so to say that there may also be a need for equality between some of the other types. But I would really like to ask the Minister about that quite specifically. There are, of course, a number of special subsidies today, such as: It is also helping to make a redistribution from the large institutions to the small institutions, and it is a bit of a break with this principle of equality, but it is, of course, the prerequisite for geographical equality in our education. That is why I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether the Minister sees special subsidies for example. the outskirts as being something that, despite the fact that we are looking for greater equality, is something that must continue after taximeter reform, so that we also ensure equality in our supply across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135627-2	I really want to say quite clearly here that I am against all those mergers that have been and I am against centralising the education system. It's not a road I want to go. It also means, of course, that if there is anything that the Left and the Social Democrats will agree on at that negotiating table, it is by God in heaven that we ensure that there is continuing to be educational provision. In my opinion, this should not just be at the level that is now. The question then is whether the Left will help to move forward and that we will actually ensure that there is provision for training in more places than today, and I really think that is what the Left is saying, with which I agree, namely the part relating to equality between the different types of education. Because I think that somewhere else we must move to a place where there will be a much greater chance of cooperation in youth education. This requires a similar structure and a similar economy. We have not done so today, so we must have done something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135718	I am so sorry to have to correct the speakers all the time, but I just want to say that we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. You don't invoke the higher powers. We're on our own. We're at least trying to do it in here. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135728	If I am to interpret this positively, I hear at least a commitment from the Minister that the wish which the Left has at some point stood alone with, but which fortunately we do not have alone any longer, namely that there must also be a geographical balance in our education system and our offer to young people across the country, is a wish shared by the Minister, and the Minister also sees the need for us to maintain some of the special subsidies on the outskirts, as we call them today, also in a future taximeter system. But I would also like to know whether the Minister will then help to ensure equality between the outskirts, so that there is not so much difference between the outskirts that are available to the mercantile area and the outskirts that exist to the general area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135812	I would like to say again that I do not have 90 mandates, and I have not made the final model, which means that it is incredibly difficult to always guarantee anything. But I really want to just say a clear yes. I do not want us to come up with a new system that does not ensure that balance. In other words, it is just a commitment that yes, we must have uniform economic structures. That's my ambition. When I get to the negotiating table, the presentation that comes from my side will be that there must be equality between the different types of upper secondary education. They must have uniform economic conditions for what they do. This means that whatever kind of youth education is involved, there will be some twists, and one of the twists will be that the longer the education is away from a large city, the greater the grant, if it is up to me and the government. It is, of course, a wish, on the one hand, to ensure that education and training are on similar conditions and, on the other hand, that, whether you live in a rural or urban community, you have the opportunity to have a youth education. I think that is absolutely equally fundamental. Thank you!) as the primary schools are in village communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135909	And we must also keep to the speaking time. This applies both to the questioner and to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135917	Thank you. Following on from what my good colleague Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby was about, I was able to hear that the Minister said that there was no wish to create more mergers or that mergers were not really one of the things that the Minister loved so much. Then I would like to have a comment on the campus formation part. There, too, we have a problem which has not yet been resolved, but which I clearly think we should address. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this. Compared to the basic grant, there is not much carrot compared to making a campus formation. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135957	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115135958	Yeah, that's what we're starting to get into the finer shades, isn't it? I really like campuses, and sometimes it gets there to be against mergers at least in the large public, of course not in the company here where we deal very much with training policy • translated into that you don't like campus formations either. I really like campus formations, because I like that young people get a proper youth education environment, so that there simply comes a proper educational environment • also among teachers. It gives us the opportunity to merge things. There's a lot of good in it. And there is openness to the fact that, in my opinion, we can have a discussion on this when we go in and look at the taximeters. So I would just like to ask the other way: if we are going to discuss everything, could we also imagine looking at capacity management? I ask Left open. Because I think it is one of the things that also determines how far we can actually go and whether we dare to go so far as to say that some of the things that always go wrong with the distribution between the different training courses and the competitive situation that may be good in some points is that it is a little over when they are allowed to dictate where in the country there is going to be most education, because people will vote with their feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140104	Here you go for the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140106	I certainly believe that this is one of the things we will be discussing when we hope to be invited soon. My final question is this: when is the Minister ready to send out the invitation? It is true that this was one of the things we set in motion when we had the power, and that is why we are waiting impatiently to start discussing the taximeter reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140133	And then it's what you want to make fun of, for some I always think you can discuss things, even if the evaluation isn't there yet; it's just a good idea to wait until after it's arrived to start doing things over. Now I am asked to call for negotiations at a time when there is probably quite a short time left for the investigations which the Left itself helped to set in motion. I'm thinking we'll wait with both, at least with the change part of it. I think we should spend a lot of time debating it, but we should wait to change things until the expert work is done, and there is not much time for that. And I would like to say that I myself am also impatient on both issues, moreover, to get started on the political discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140223	If I am going to follow up on what my good colleague just asked me about, namely when we are going to negotiate, then that is an indication that we on the Left are impatient. This is a work which we set in motion and in which we have taken a large number of initiatives, but in which we are not entirely in line with our desire to achieve economic equality between our different types of upper secondary education. That is why it is not a question of not waiting for the recommendations of the committee of experts which has been set up; it is just a wish to get a commitment from the Minister that it will not be a year or a half-year before we start, but that the Minister will be in the working clothes too, so that we can expect to be able to deal with these issues before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140302	Well, if the Left is prepared to make a deal before the summer break, it's close that I just want to say: Top. I would like to say, in relation to the convening of negotiations, that this will be done quickly. I think we are talking here about something that is not so simple. In other words, if the political negotiations can take place so quickly, I think that as a minister one is always quite happy. This is really complicated and it gets into every village in Denmark; there is not one place in Denmark where you are not affected by what we are going to decide on here. That is why it would really be my view that we can get started quickly, and then it is always as a minister with the hope that we can also finish as soon as possible, but my experience tells me that it will probably take a little longer than that with something like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140343	Thank you. There are no more options to discuss question 10. So we move on to question 11. The minister is the same, and the liberal questioning team is also the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140354	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for merged youth education institutions to be financially penalised for being merged, and what will the government do to compensate the institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140405	I mean, here I'm gonna be in on what part of what we're talking about, right? Are we talking about the amount they get when they merge, where they can get some money, because it can cost a little extra knuckle fat to have to merge? Or are we talking about the current taximeter supplements? In fact, I have some doubts as to what is meant by this question. Then I would like to say that I am not very much in favour of there being incentives to merge. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of economies of scale, so if there is, I do not think there is any independent reason for having better educational opportunities in the cities than in the countryside. So if it is cheaper because it is actually cheaper that there are economies of scale in being a large institution in a large city, then I cannot understand why taxpayers should go and pay for there being an extra good quality in a big city while there is not in a rural municipality. So I would really like to say that I think it is fine if it is the case that there are no incentive structures that speak in the direction of mergers. But I am not sure if that is what the Left meant by the question, so frankly I just want to ask the following question: what exactly is meant by it? Because there's something going one way and something going the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140516	But thank you for your answer. There is also a written justification for the question, in which we refer to an article which has been published in the Bergske magazines and which, of course, describes the special grant which has been given to a number of outskirts trading gymnasiums of about DKK 800,000, small DKK 900,000, which is this additional special supplement. It is the case that the institutions of Ribe, Nyborg, Struer and Lemvig do not receive this subsidy because they are part of the merged institutions, and I understand that the rectors of the institutions in question think that is rather paradoxical, because they are not each a metropolitan function for some of the areas, but they are precisely a peripheral function, which is about ensuring a proper educational provision for young people, and there is a lack of fairness. My good colleague Mrs Anni Matthiesen also asked in the previous question round for the basic subsidy, which also disappears after a merger, and where one can ask oneself the question: why should an institution, for example, have to. in Struer or Nyborg or Ribe or in Lemvig or elsewhere financially punished for having actually chosen to maintain not just individual offers but multi-branch offers, and now in a campus construction? We have therefore asked this question so that we can hear what the Minister and the government will actually do in order to provide financial compensation for those institutions which basically now have a negative economic incentive to actually maintain a multi-faceted supply of training in some of our outermost regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140652	Well, two things, right? But okay, now I get it, the part it's not about is the second part of the merger grant, so we leave that discussion behind. But two things in relation to that: in the current structure I am not prepared to do so, certainly when we come on the other side of what we are going to be negotiating, hopefully we have found a more reasonable model. However, I will not help to create incentive structure for mergers because it has killed large parts of such outskirts of Denmark's education offer. In other places it's kept alive, you might say. And what is the challenge when we leave the institutions to compete and decide their own capacities is that it will then be impossible to take into account the considerations we really wanted to take. That's why it's just such a call. When we start the negotiations, I would very much like to look at what the finger is being put on here. I just think that we need to have the courage to look at capacity management, because in this situation it would be quite different to go in and say: well, here we can look at the institutional landscape, which was exactly what the previous government set in motion, and see that it makes sense for four different cities to continue to have four different tenders, even though they have actually merged into a common structure, and there is something else that can be seen than anywhere else; it just requires that there is no competitive situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140806	I believe that the Social Democrats and the Left view it differently, i.e. whether competition can be good or not good, because it can be very good on a large number of points and also in terms of improving quality. Competition can also be a bad thing when you fight on the margins. If you look at a number of the four educational institutions that we have pointed out in the written explanatory statement, you will see that these are areas which have been very much marked by a very sharp decline in the number of children. And in order to maintain a strong supply of education in the areas concerned, campus formations have been made, not only saying that they can now all go to the general high school, because they have actually made a virtue of maintaining a merkantil branch too, but they are being penalised financially for that. That is why we are asking about the reasonableness of it, that is to say whether the Minister thinks it is reasonable and I can understand the Minister's view in the present situation, but I also hope that the Minister will give an undertaking that this is some of the things we need to have looked at in the context of taximeter reform, so that we also ensure many facets of our education system and also in the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140905	It's technically possible to make a bigger watch, but it won't look nice, so try looking at what's there. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140912	I think it is a little wrong to say that I am saying that it is fair. I think the system is unreasonable, don't I? I think that the way we have arranged our taximeter system makes it impossible for us to do what is right and fair, and therefore I cannot see that, within the current framework, it would be possible to change that relationship without at the same time having any derived effect elsewhere in the country, which would be of a negative nature. That is why I agree so much that the previous government set that work in motion, but I think we should take a deeper look at it. And I would also like to say that I think that there is a large part of the freedom that has been granted with the state autonomy of youth education, which is very good, and then there are some things that are not good. And it is true that on all possible points we may disagree on competition, but here I think we should simply go in and get the best of both worlds, and I hope we can do that in the negotiations that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115140958	Then we'll go over to the co-questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141000	Thank you. If I am to dig deeper into a spade, I would quite specifically like the Minister's comment on the fact that, for example: Lemvig Gymnasium has had to actually terminate six of their teachers as a result of the imbalance that merged educational institutions experience in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141029	My comment is that if we wriggle there, it is six teachers who smoke somewhere else. So we have to be in favour of the fact that when we want to go deeper, which the Left started, and which I have chosen to continue, it is simply to avoid these absurdities, both in Lemvig and elsewhere. If you just twist somewhere, in the way the system is built up, it typically has a negative effect somewhere else. That is to say, I feel very much when the Left, for example. talking about basic grants, because then I smile, because I think that is one of the things we have to discuss with each other, and I think that one of the options for going in and doing this very well is that we have a look at a road where we have combined some of the forms of grants we have in the other education sector. If we do not dare go that way, it will be such a zero-sum game where, if we turn a little on the meter somewhere, it will have a negative consequence somewhere else in the country. The other times, when you have gone in and adjusted the taximeter subsidies, it has been the case that it has caused an inappropriateness somewhere else because you are lying and competing with each other. That is why I think we need to do a little more thorough work, and that is why I am glad that the Left has set this work in motion as part of the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141137	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141139	In this last question, which I have as a co-author, I would like to know if the Minister could clarify it a little more, because I do not know if I have understood it correctly. The minister is against mergers, like campus formations, we should also look at the basic grant. I have to say that in some places, perhaps especially in the outermost regions, it makes good sense to make mergers too, in order to ensure that there are still more offers at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141213	Yes, and elsewhere it doesn't, and that's the problem. In other words, what has been the overall consequence of the mergers over the last two decades is that large parts of Denmark today are without educational institutions, and I simply do not think that is appropriate. This also means that those who control one's educational institutions are centralized away from one's city, even if one should be so lucky that there is still an open offer. It's no good, and that means that that part of it I don't like, and we're gonna have to end it. So do I recognize that there are other parts we have won by mergers? That's the way it is with everything you win, and you lose something. I think where we should go now is that we both take it from both worlds. Now we have seen what it can, when we set it free, and then let us take what was good, and let us get rid of what was not so good, and some of what is not so good is good enough that the decision-making authority over educational institutions has moved out, because then you merged into all sorts of common things, where some people who live very far away from where you live, suddenly decide, and I don't think that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141308	Then it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby who takes the final sprint.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141312	I do not think this debate ends today, because it could be very interesting to see where it is, the Minister believes there is no longer any call for tenders. In other words, if I look at the initiatives taken by the previous government, I can see that we took a number of initiatives where we also looked at the professional committees to ensure that there were more vocational training provision and where we secured satellite formations. However, we have a challenge in that the population has moved towards the big cities and we have some rural areas where the number of children has been decreasing. That is also why we in the Left have fought a great deal to ensure that the outskirts subsidy has not only been introduced but has also been increased several times. That is also why I can be a little worried when the Minister about this whole discussion just as he says: 'Oh, you can't have that anyway, because then it risks favouring someone in the cities. I think we on the Left have to stick to the fact that there has to be a difference in how we deal with metropolitan institutions and rural institutions, and I really hope the Minister can give a commitment to that, because it has been a little unhappy what the Minister really meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141414	Yeah, but it's because we're about to change everything, and it's kind of a job you started, so that's why it's a little bit owled. Hopefully, we will be getting the experts' very good proposals in a few moments, and we in the Social Democrats are in favour of ensuring that we keep our hands on the institutions that are out there, but with regard to the concrete model, we await the experts. We think it would be completely hollow in the head, here incredibly shortly before they make their bid, to make very concrete offers. I think the direction of battle is actually quite clear and, by the way, I hear that we agree on it. And it can be said that now that the Left and the Social Democrats together have a majority in this House, it is, in fact, a very good starting point for some negotiations that one can say that the direction of battle is the same and I hear it is actually a desire that, with the negotiations that are coming, we should ensure that we keep our hands under it out there. In some places it has been done by merging, that is to say it has been managed to keep them out there; elsewhere it has become giant organisations where it may well be that the training offer is still out there, but the decision has been moved in. This means that it may well be that there is an offer out there in that town, but when you have to decide what opens and closes, and which lines should lie where decisions were taken in the past, where you knew the local area, it is now moved to a city that can lie 50 km away or 80 km away. I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141530	Thank you to the Left's team of questioners, and thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. I would just like to ask the Minister for Children and Education whether it is possible for us to go back to Questions 5 and 6, because our colleague who has asked the questions was prevented from asking them for other reasons, but has now arrived. The Minister will decide that on a sovereign basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141553	In other words, I would say that we have just amended the notice of absence and, although I cannot see whether or not there is a legal absence, it will be enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141602	Thank you very much, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141623	I would like to thank you very much for your understanding, and I would also like to apologise very much for dragging this matter a little further. At any rate, these are some questions that I personally have looked forward to delving a little deeper into. It is a matter that is very close to me. In relation to Question 5, I ask: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for parents of children in special offers to be disadvantaged when a municipality chooses to convert full-day schools into special educational services and associated school freetime schemes, because parents may end up having to pay for special leisure offers from 0 to 10th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141705	Well, I am not a council member now, and that is why it is not for me to decide whether or not it is the right way to do it in a specific municipality, because this is an issue that lies outside the city councils. Having said that, I would like to say that the legislation in this area is that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. If you have a child in a sfo, it is possible for the municipalities to pay for it, that is to say that you pay for your child going to sfo. Then there are some partial freeways and some whole freeways • that's like what the law says. And I think it should apply both to children who go to sfo and to the group of children we are talking about here, namely that what is a leisure offer is allowed to be paid for by parents, but what is part of the education, or what is part of the treatment, is not allowed under the law to be paid for by parents, and that is where I really think the legislation is going to hit it very well. Of course, we must not start charging for anything that parents need to do, either because it is education or because there is treatment associated with it. That's not gonna work. But all other parents also pay for leisure and leisure activities, and the children go to sfo, and we have a tradition of that, and that is the law. Then we have created social considerations that make sure that those who do not have so much money get either full or partial free space.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141827	Thank you for your answer. Well, unfortunately now it is not the experience in the municipalities. One might say that it is right that we have autonomy; it is good that the municipalities themselves can go in and correct to and from, in relation to what is needed, both by normal offers and by special offers and perhaps also by some preventive offers that lie in between. But as an example we have a case which, of course, I know the Minister cannot comment on where a large number of children with special needs for education and leisure have actually been robbed of the possibility of having it in normal school education and whose parents have now been forced to pay for sfo from 0 to 10th grade • it is not a common practice in relation to parents of children who have normal needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115141917	It can be said that, in relation to the discussion about whether or not to have a full day offer in a particular municipality, it is not something that I, as a minister, have to decide, and I am not going to judge it either, because I cannot comment on some specific issue. It can be said that, according to the legislation, there is no problem. It doesn't have to mean that a municipality has done it the best way. The municipalities do this in an incredibly many different ways, and it is then a battle that you have to take in a municipality, i.e. whether you have to do it one way or the other. The legislation that exists, I think, is reasonable. In other words, with regard to legislation, you can choose to make a full-day school. If you do that, it means that all day long there is teaching, and then it is my best conviction that it must, of course, but if you choose to fit in with something where there isn't teaching all day, that is, where there is a leisure offer late in the afternoon, just as there is for all other children, so the teaching is in the daytime, then the same rules apply that apply to all other children, namely that parents have to pay for the part that is not teaching, that is, the leisure offer, unless you have a very poor economy, because then there are partial or whole free places. I think that is actually fair. In relation to whether it is right in the actual municipality and the specific place, I would say that there are good arguments for full-day teaching and there are good arguments for doing so in the other way; one school believes that the children are best off with teachers all day long, and the other school thinks that changing settings is a good thing, so that some other comrades are involved in the leisure offer. I think that is a very good thing to assess locally and that it is not something we sit and dictate in here from Slotsholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142055	Yes, but doesn't the Minister acknowledge that there is an inequality? This means that there are actually unequal relationships when you say: Well it may be you would like to have leisure opportunities for your child because you no longer have a full day offer, you only have a school offer for your child with special needs, but now you simply have to pay for a sfo-scheme all the way up through school. This is how you start making arrangements around, and that is not the case, because children with normal development will stop having that need after the 3rd grade, and this is where ordinary families • if we can say so, then stop having the extra cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142136	No, actually, I don't recognize that. In fact, it could also be that the families in question wanted their child to go to football, that is to say, depending on what kind of challenges the child has and what kind of special offer it is about; it could be that it was some other leisure interests. What is the starting point for me is whether it is mandatory. In other words, if it is part of compulsory education, I would think it would be extremely unfair if you had to pay for it completely unfairly. It's just not a question of that either. That means that what we are talking about is: should society, the state, pay, that is to say, cover the full cost of a special offer sfo? So far, it has been the case that you can have free places if you have poor finances, but otherwise all parents in Denmark pay for their children going to sfo, because it is a leisure offer and is not part of compulsory education. And there are other things I would like to give more money to or remove participant fees on before I started giving parents to children on sfos money back, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142234	Then it is the questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142236	When you stand out there as parents and in the first place have been awarded a full-day offer and the municipality chooses to change it, it is so that the parents and children are left with it, and then they have to go through a longer complaint. This means de facto that it will take a long time for parents and children before they can be searched for any special offer. Does the Minister really believe that these children and their parents have proper legal certainty when we talk about the possibility of a continuous professional offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142316-2	No, but this is a completely different issue, which, moreover, falls within the remit of the Minister for Social Affairs, an area on which I have been rapporteur for six years. There's the answer, no. There are really great difficulties in a great many municipalities in searching for the right places and, moreover, in following up the complaints that will then follow up. That's just not what the question is about. After all, we are not talking about whether it is reasonable to be searched for another offer, because if it is the case that, for treatment reasons, you actually need to have a full day offer, then according to the law it is obligatory for the municipality to deliver 100 per cent. of the money for it. In fact, they have a duty under the law to do so, and if there are cases where this is not the case, then we must use exactly the tools we have in the toolbox to get the municipalities to do what they have to do according to the law. According to the legislation, if, as a child, you need an offer in the part that lies in your spare time, then the municipality must pay for it, and the municipality must live up to it. Do they do it everywhere? I have never seen it in the social field that it was the case that all municipalities complied with the legislation. I have simply never experienced that, so I should be very surprised if that was the case in this area. But then you have to complain about it where you can appeal. That is how it is done in this area, but it is something completely different from what the questioner has asked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142432	Thank you. That was question 5. Question 6 is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142442	Thank you. We'll continue in the same groove. Does the Minister agree in principle that parents of children in need of special education should pay for special leisure services?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142455	It depends on whether it is needed, or whether it is a leisure offer, understood in the sense that it is an offer that is not needed, but which is something one wants to do. That is the starting point for me, and, moreover, it is also under the law. According to the legislation, the offer that you need is covered 100% and the offer that is a leisure offer, for example. Similarly, my children's sfo, which I also pay for, you pay as parents yourself. But it's because there's no need. After all, it's a matter of wanting your kids to go to sfo. Then we have free space, in whole or in part, for the group for whom it is light-based. By the way, I think that's fine, so everyone can join us if they want to. But where there is a real need for treatment or education, the municipality must pay for it, and I think that is quite reasonable, because otherwise we will have an inequality in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142546	Does this mean that the Minister recognizes that when it is the case that a child needs care beyond the third year, it is a need of a special educational nature? Would that be a definition that the Minister could agree to?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142610	I think it is quite clear in the legislation, understood in that way that it is either of a therapeutic nature, and then it comes under the service legislation, or it is a teaching offer, and then it falls within my remit. It's just to say that I actually think it's pretty clear. However, I also know that there is quite a long way to go from what is quite clear in the legislation to what is sometimes practiced. There it is, then, that we must use the complaints systems that exist, and I hope that people do so, and I also hope that if you do not have the strength to do so, you will have to join the associations that lift it up as a family. I know there are a lot of major challenges with that part around the various municipalities, but in relation to whether I recognize it or not, I would say that the law
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142655	When this kind of change is made, you can almost start to see a horror scenario for yourself with a Minister of Social Affairs and a Minister of Education who both think the ball is somewhere else. Because it is so that if you are in a full-day offer and the municipality suddenly chooses to change it, then it is some different legislation that we are dealing with. And in the meantime, while the rest of us are discussing what to do or how to solve it, it is the families and these children who are being taken hostage, because they need to enter a whole new process of searching, and they have very little access to complaints and very little legal certainty in terms of ensuring that their children continue to have holistic efforts that they really need to thrive, develop and become people who hopefully can exploit their best potentials.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142745	Now the questioner is again talking about a very specific example, and I simply do not want to take a position on that. I do not think that is fair as a minister. However, I would just like to say that I would, of course, urge that, if you make changes, you do so in good enough time to be able to search the citizens in advance so that you do not do so after you have made the change. In principle, according to the law, you can change something from being a full-day school to not being a full-time school, whether it is an ordinary elementary school offer or a special offer. You can do that. That is not what determines what the child is entitled to or needs, one can say. So the question of whether or not we should have a full-day school is a common question, but it is clear that if you make a change, you have to take into account the children who are behind it. Then there is a process of change, and I trust very many of the municipalities are very good at implementing it, but I also know from experience that there are quite a few that are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142832	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142834	Now it is the case that more municipalities come up with this, and that is also due to the fact that there is not enough money. But what is really the point is that there are not very good rules on how these kinds of transitions should take place. How do we secure the children and parents in this transition so that they don't fall apart completely in those processes? Is the Minister interested in sending out a shepherd's letter or providing some sort of strength or setting a framework for how this sort of thing is going to happen, so that we do not lose these children and families on the floor and actually let them down? Because that is actually what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142909	At any rate, I would like to give a commitment that I would like to and also with the Minister for Social Affairs to come forward and then we can discuss what the problem is, because it is quite true that it sometimes becomes such a silo-like thing. In fact, my view is that the Minister for Social Affairs and myself are very, very much in agreement on this point, as on so many other points, on where we are going, what is the direction of battle and where the problems are. So I will certainly be prepared to try to sit down and try to look through where things are going wrong and how we can lift it up to a better level than what is today. 'Cause nobody's gonna get caught up in it. So I definitely think we should look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115142941	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education, and thank you to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. You're counting on how to handle such an atypical course here. I would like to thank the two ministers and two MFs who then received 10 minutes each for reflection. We now turn to Question 12 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and the questioner is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143007	Thank you. Does the Minister recognise that the law of handshake seems absurd when it means that the mayor of Samsø, Marcel Meijer, should in principle shake hands with himself in order to become Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143024	Thank you for the question. I very much agree with the questioner that it would be absurd for a mayor to shake hands with himself, but fortunately that is not the case either. As the rules are linked together, the organisation of the constitutional ceremonies is a task for the municipal councils. It is therefore up to the individual municipal council to organise how the municipal ceremonies are to be held. In many municipalities it will probably be the mayor who is in charge of such a ceremony, but there is nothing to prevent it from being another member of the municipal council or another representative from the municipality. It could, for example, be done. be the municipal manager. I can also inform you that the Ministry has been in contact with Samsø Municipality to answer these questions that the municipality has. Last week I myself attended a constitutional ceremony held by the municipality of Hvidovre as the first municipality in the country, and I would say that it was actually a pretty good experience. I am very much in favour of us solemnly marking such an important event as it is to be granted Danish citizenship. It helps to emphasise that it matters, and I also had the impression that it was something that the Danish citizens who took part in the ceremony were happy about. However, none of us quite yet know how the new ceremonies will work in practice when they have been in many municipalities. I therefore think it is wise that we should just try to hold one or two rounds of ceremonies, and I myself intend to take part in some of them. I think I have taken part in a great many debates here in Parliament and in the media on this issue. I'd like to try to get out in real life and see how it works. When I have been on a tour and seen how it works in practice, it is really my ambition that, in this context, we should decide what to do with the ceremonies in the future. But so far, my starting point is actually that it has been a success, but as I said, it is on the basis of a single ceremony that I have participated in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143209	Thank you. It is not a secret, I think, that I find little sense in this handshaking law, not because I in any way deny that we greet each other by shaking hands, but because I just don't think it makes sense to have it written down in a law, how we hand-to-hand should greet each other at a ceremony. I think it is the epitome of symbolism policy. As he said, the Minister himself stated several times on the subject on 12 September 2019 that the symbol policy should be cleared up. That statement actually came in connection with several Social Democratic mayors calling for the abolition of the handshake law, not because they had something against a ceremony, not even a ceremony where you got Faxe Kondi and salt bars, but because the mayors could not find much sense in it being in a law how to shake hands with this ceremony. What impression does it make on the Minister that several Social Democratic mayors believe that the handshake law should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143316	Well, I would say that it always impresses me, both what fellow party members and what other mayors say. As I also said in my reply, I myself feel that Christiansborg sometimes has a slight change of heart. We may find something incredibly interesting to discuss with each other without having any practical experience at all of how it works in reality. Therefore, in this case and in others, I would say, I have decided that now we are taking a deep breath, and then we will see how it works. I'm going around the country, in the metropolitan area, in Jutland, and I'm going to take part in quite a few of these basic ceremonies. There I will try to talk both to the mayors, but also to the new citizens and their families to hear what they think about the whole ceremony... everything the ceremony is about. And I have to say that so far I have only had positive reactions. But it is not a secret that I myself, before the election, thought that it was perhaps a little strange to have to read in a Danish legal text that a handshake should be palm-to-hand. Now I just think it might end up being just as symbolically political to roll it back, so let's see how it works. And then I think that a fairly broad majority in the Folketing, after these ceremonies have been allowed to work for the first time, will be able to agree on how to move forward. It may also be that there are other parts of the ceremonies that need to be adjusted a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143435	It's really nice that the minister comes around the country and greets a lot of the new Danish citizens, but when will the minister judge to have enough practical experience with these handshaking ceremonies to be able to determine whether the Social Democracy and Government are actually for or against a handshaking law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143458	I would like to start by saying that we are in favour of shaking hands when another person raises his hand. I also think it should be considered whether you have sought citizenship in the right country if you have a problem with shaking hands with the opposite sex. The very expression of hand-shaking is symbolic, but it covers a view of the other sex, which I think is fairly fundamental, and it is an ingrained part of our democracy that we regard gender as equal. Yes, the handshake may be symbolic, but it covers something that is really essential, really important to hold on to. That's my starting point. I have decided to attend ceremonies until the summer holidays, and they are spread over the country and over the months, and then we can talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143538	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143540	Thank you. Does the Minister think that the mayor of Samsø will be more Danish and better integrated by shaking hands, or would he be less integrated if he did not participate in a handshake ceremony?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143557	When he acquires his Danish citizenship, he becomes a Danish citizen, and that applies to my fellow party member on Samsø, just as it applies to thousands of other people who are granted citizenship when they have participated in the constitutional ceremonies. The ceremonies are supposed to celebrate it, but it is just the very last and perhaps the least of the demands that are made for Danish citizenship, which is otherwise about having been in employment, you have lived here for a number of years, you have a permanent residence permit, you have not committed crime, and that is all that is the assessment of whether you have lived up to the requirements of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143632	Thank you. The question is over. 13, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is Mr. Nils Sjøberg, who asks the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143644	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143652	Actually, I don't have the question, I'm sorry. It was an embarrassing start, but here it comes: what does the Minister think can be done to ensure that language teaching is established most appropriately in connection with the abolition of self-payment on Danish education for foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143720	Thank you for the question. And there is no need to complain to me. After all, with the agreement on the Finance Act, we are abolishing the payment for the participants who are self-supporting, that is. Typically, foreign workers can be Eastern workers or students coming from all corners of the world. At the same time, we increase the deposit to participate in Danish education. There they leave a deposit of DKK 1,250. per module, and we raise that to 2,000 kroner. And then we need to tighten up the rules for repayment. In other words, this means that we will have a system where there will no longer be any tuition fees for these self-supporting students. At the same time, there will be a higher deposit, which you do not automatically get back. With the changes we propose that only the students who sign up for Danish education and who take an active part in the teaching and pass their tests will receive their deposit back. The amendments will enter into force on 1 July, i.e. this summer. And before submitting the bill, I will present the parties behind the Finance Act to the concrete model, so it is in addition to the author's party Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative. We have a fundamental interest in ensuring that workers and students staying for a shorter or longer time in Denmark also participate in society and learn our language; only in this way will we get the maximum benefit from the competences that both students and workers can contribute to Denmark. Moreover, the proposed changes do not aim to change the organisation or content of the education which the municipalities of the country are responsible for offering new arrivals. Finally, I would like to stress that the agreement does not change the rules on Danish education for newly arrived refugees and family members either. There we continue as before, and that means that this teaching remains free, but that if you do not have the Danish education in which you have the right and the duty to participate, without a valid reason, it is the municipality's job to withdraw the amount from the integration service.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115143915	Thank you. There is, of course, no doubt, in that we have also been involved in the drafting of the Finance Act, that this is an area for which we have really worked, and we are pleased that the Socialist Government has also supported it, and it is part of the Finance Act. So, first of all, praise to the Minister and the Minister's party for the cooperation that has been there. It is positive that self-supporting students no longer have to pay for Danish education after 1 July. But is the Minister aware of the challenges involved in making this scheme only on 1 July? For it gives an overstaffing in the language schools at the moment, and it also gives a break in the course of teaching in several places. The fact that it is 1 July means that many students will resign after passing the modular test; it is at least the opinion of the language schools that many will resign after taking the first module, because then they will not pay. It also puts language schools in a difficult situation. They predict a slowdown and, above all, a break in learning when students turn out to avoid paying for this very spring. In return, the students will join again in the autumn, so there will be a distortion there. Is this a situation with which the government has dealt, that is, that there will be this schism of overstaffing in language schools and at the same time a break in teaching? And could it be an idea to advance the date from 1 July to e.g. 1 March or 1 April?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144052	Thank you for that follow-up question. I do not recall discussing, when we negotiated the Finance Act, whether there could be an earlier entry into force. I think it is also about the need for a change of law to implement this proposal, so it has to be consulted and dealt with three times in this Chamber, and we are already in the ministry so that we can be ready for 1 July. In addition, we must also bear in mind that every month we move that decision forward will cost 12 million. kr., and that's money that we haven't found in the Finance Act. I understand that we are going to see an increase after the summer break. We are counting on that at least, but if there is even a fall here in the first half of the year, I think it might be too early to conclude; that is certainly not some information I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144139	But could I almost indirectly get an answer to the question of abolishing the payment for students who are in the course of Danish education, so only the new students will have to pay in the spring? And, for example, could you... Consider that question No. In this context, is it possible for the municipalities that wanted it and the possibility of it to introduce it early?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144205	I think it will be difficult to give some municipalities the opportunity to drive according to some legislation that has not yet been adopted. So, unfortunately, I have to ask the questioner to arm himself a little with patience. On the other hand, I would like to say that I, too, am interested in whether we see a decrease in the number of students here in the first months of 2020, because I hope not; I really hope not. I hope that people will, after all, continue their Danish education and then just welcome the fact that on the other side of the summer holiday it will be cheaper for them because they will be free of the participation fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144240	In other words, it is not imagined that the municipalities will be given the opportunity to do so, for example. to pay or to find an arrangement for it. Now I know that, for example. in Kolding Municipality are politicians who are very positive about such a scheme and it would specifically cost a few hundred thousand for the municipality. So the question is actually a little: would it be a system that could be considered, so that it could be implemented, for example. 1 March or 1 April? It would cost a few hundred thousand for a specific municipality, and that municipality seems to be positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144313	I dare not deny that a municipality can pay for its citizens, if they participate in Danish education it may well be and if there are any municipalities that want it, then I have no political problem with it. Whether there are any legal problems, I dare not say. I would also like to say that some language schools can look forward to increased activity on the other side of the summer holiday, and if otherwise they have a fairly sound liquidity, then it might as well be that in the first half of 2020 they could run with a little operating deficit in return for looking forward to increased activity on the other side of the summer holiday. Otherwise, they must have a reasonably poor liquidity. It may, of course, be that some of them have it, but then perhaps I think it should be dealt with individually instead of rolling general rules all over the world of language centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144354	Thank you. The question is over, and we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and Mr. Nils Sjøberg. The next person to ask questions is Question No 1, which is Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14 is sir. Hans Andersen, who questions the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144410	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144411	Thank you. Is the government ready to follow the recommendations of the Service Commission if the Commission recommends raising the social benefits to a group, e.g. In order to reduce social benefits for another group, for example: sick Danes on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144432	Thank you for the question. Let me start by stating that it is central to the government that a new system of benefits must balance a number of considerations. On the one hand, there must also be a substantial economic benefit from being in work in the future; on the other hand, there must be a fair standard of living when, for a temporary period, you are out of work. That balance is not in the current system of benefits, where the ceiling on cash benefits, introduced by the previous government, is in some cases at odds and at odds. It has hit some families, including children's families, hard on the wallet. Among other things, it can be done. The government doesn't think that's fair. That is why the government has set up a Service Commission to bid for a new system of benefits to ensure that otherwise the balance is not balanced. Of course, it is far too early to say anything about whether the government will follow the recommendations made by the Service Commission, including whether the government will agree with recommendations that mean that some have to have more in service, while others need less. But with the complexity and knobbing that characterises the rules of the cash assistance system, there may well be some elements in the cash assistance system and in the related additional benefits that can be thought together in a more sensible and simple way. Of course, I have a clear expectation that there will be useful recommendations from the Service Commission, but it is not certain that it is all recommendations that the government will agree with. Now the commission is about to start its work, which I look forward to following.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144558	After all, it is clear from the Commission's mandate that the recommendations must be cost-neutral. And that means, in other words, that if someone needs to have more money in their hands, yes, they need to be picked up in the pockets of others in the cash assistance system. One of the first things the Social Democratic Government did when it came to power was to increase the benefits to unemployed immigrants in particular. So you can be worried about a repeat. So who does the Minister think should have more money and who should have fewer? The Minister must have a position on this, the Commission of Service or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144638	In other words, what the government has a position on is that we can see a system of benefits in which many and very large changes have been made over the past many years, including changes that the then Socialist-led government helped to introduce, and changes that changing bourgeois governments have helped to introduce and where there is a problem with the balance of the system. I think it is a fundamental problem when you can see that there are children growing up in families who are on cash benefits or other benefits and who find it difficult to have the same parenting conditions as other children, whether it is that you do not have the opportunity to go to children's birthday or to go to school properly, or what do I know? That is the problem we basically want to solve with better balances.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144721	It has to be said that the Social Democrats say one thing when they are in opposition, and then the Social Democrats do something quite different when they are in government. After all, it is not easy to get an answer, because how can it be that the social democracy before the elections could promise that the benefits to foreigners would not be set up, but as one of the first things after the elections has just done so? After all, the Minister cannot answer whether he wishes to raise the benefits of unemployed foreigners once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144758	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144759	I think that in this particular case we have done exactly what we also said to the electorate and, incidentally, to the general public before the elections. We have said all the way through that we thought that there were some imbalances in the current performance system. We have also said that we think that the imbalances are both so complex and difficult that we need wise people's input on how to solve them. We have also said that, in relation to the very great challenge currently facing families with children who suffer very great deprivation, we will also go in and provide them with a temporary handout. And all these things we've done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144837	I just think it is a statement that the Social Democrats say one thing before the elections and do something else afterwards. After all, the position was very clear on the part of the Social Democrats before the elections, namely that foreigners should not have an increase in income. And now all we have to say is that the vast majority of those who receive a temporary family allowance are, after all, people and families with an immigrant background. And the temporary family allowance does not make it more attractive for them to enter society and take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144909	To be honest, I have to disagree with Hans Andersen. What we said before the elections was that we have a system of benefits that is no longer in balance. There are too many families, especially families with children, who suffer too much deprivation. On the other hand, we can also see that there has to be a link between the fact that there is an economic benefit from being in work and the fact that you have a decent living basis if you temporarily lack a job. We have said that we would like to have wise people's input on this, namely how we can create better balances, while also saying honestly before the elections that we would be doing something temporary as a helping hand to the families of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144944	Thank you. And this question is over. 15, which is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115144954	Is it the government's intention that the barely 300 million? kr. in additional social benefits per year, which the Government temporarily grants to cash benefits and integration benefits recipients, shall be continued in a new benefit system once the Commission has submitted its recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145013	Thank you for the question. As I also mentioned in my answer to the previous question, S 497, it is absolutely central to the government that a new system of benefits balances two considerations: there must continue to be a substantial economic benefit from being at work and there must be a fair standard of living during the temporary period of absence from work. That balance is not in the current system of benefits, where in some cases the ceiling on cash benefits hits at odds and at odds. We know that it has hit many families with children particularly hard on their purses and that children may suffer. That is why, on the short run, we have introduced a new temporary family allowance which provides financial support to the families most affected by the ceiling or integration benefit. The temporary family allowance is temporary and must be effective until a new benefit system enters into force. It is clear from the terms of reference that a new system of benefits must be cost-neutral, i.e. in proportion to the expenditure spent annually in this field, excluding the temporary financing allocated to the temporary allowance. However, where funding is needed in the benefit system, the Commission may indicate funding proposals within the cash assistance system in general. Now the Commission is about to start its work, which I look forward to following, and it is therefore far too early to predict what a new service system might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145130	Thank you for your answer. However, we can only note that the extra subsidies that have been granted right now are mainly granted to unemployed foreigners, which means that it is less attractive to take a job. How does this relate to the government's ambition to get more refugees and immigrants into work? That is, of course, the big question that one can ask oneself, and I am eagerly waiting for the answer to that question. It is clear that the government is going to provide two things: a greater subsidy for unemployed immigrants, and a withdrawal from the labour market, of which they must try to find work as soon as possible. And these two things just don't harmonize at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145213	I think there's a great harmony in what we do. Because whatever skin color you have, whatever the situation your parents are in, children are still gone children and we insist that children have a proper basis in life. We insist that children should have proper opportunities to be children. They must live in families, even when you are on the lower safety net, where you go full to school, where you can participate in children's birthdays and where you can participate in leisure activities. That is why, until we have the recommendations for a new system of benefits, we are providing financial support to the families of children most affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145257	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145259	I fully agree with the Minister in everything the Minister said, except the last thing about the need for an extra family allowance. For we are of the opinion that even with the ceiling on cash benefits for children in a family there is a single provider with two children on cash benefits, after all 18,300 DKK. Each month, after tax, is the opportunity to go to children's birthdays and participate in leisure activities, etc. But how does this relate to the fact that, before the elections, the Social Democratic Party said that foreign policy was not relaxed, but subsequently, after the elections, has provided an extra subsidy to foreigners on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145336	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145337	Once again, I think it is a good thing. Because I think we have been very honest about the difficult considerations that somewhere are also in relation to this issue. All the way through, we've been saying what Mr. Hans Andersen rightly points out that we have no intention of suddenly giving much more in certain types of benefits, but that we would like to have better balances. We have been able to see from the stories that have been queuing both in the media and as child organisations, and which social organisations in diversity have reported that there are some families, that there are some children suffering too much deprivation, and we want to do something about that. But we also insist that there should be the balance that Mr. Hans Andersen also seems concerned about this, and I therefore hope that when the Service Commission makes its recommendations, the Left will be involved in negotiating what a new service system might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145427	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145428	But the starting point has only become more difficult. For now, the government, together with the support parties, has provided an extra grant to mainly unemployed foreigners, which makes it less attractive for the people concerned to get to work. After all, I very much agree that we must pursue getting unemployed people into work, and that is also what has happened in recent years with the ceiling on cash benefits. So I actually find it very difficult to understand why the government is going to break down the ceiling on cash aid. I have to understand the government wants to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145459	If you take the premise that I think Hans Andersen and some of his colleagues often do, that is to say that it is only the amount of benefits that determines whether you are going to work or not, then we might as well abolish the benefits and give food vouchers instead. Because then everyone had to plunge into the labour market and take the jobs that are now. I don't think the world is connected like that. Nor do we have any evidence to suggest that the world is so connected. In many of the countries with such systems, we cannot see that there is a very high level of employment among some of the groups with other problems than just unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145537	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. The Minister for Employment needs another question, and that is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and that is Question No. 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145551	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145553	The question is this: is it the intention of the Minister that a future political agreement following the recommendations of the Commission of Service should continue the loss in labour supply resulting from the agreement on temporary family allowances, or does the Minister want a future agreement to eliminate the loss in labour supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145611	Thank you for the question. We have given the Service Commission 1 year to make its recommendations for a new cash assistance system. The government has provided a framework for the work of the Service Commission. As stated in the terms of reference, the Commission's recommendations must, overall, be cost-neutral and must not weaken employment. The Commission must now be calmed down and I will await the recommendations of the Commission and not begin to anticipate the content of a future political agreement, including any impact on the supply of work. Once the Commission has presented its recommendations for a year's time, I call for negotiation of the future cash assistance system. Here I hope that the parties of the Folketing, not least the Left, will enter into the negotiations constructively so that together we can create a robust and future-proof cash assistance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145658	Thank you for the answer or attempt to answer. After all, I have also read the terms of reference of the Service Commission, and it says that overall the recommendations must be cost-neutral and must not weaken employment. It is a different wording than that it must not reduce the supply of labour. I just need to ask how to understand the mandate. It's not very polemical. Does this mean that the reduction in the supply of labour made in connection with the agreement made by the government on the temporary family allowance, which reduces employment by 250 in Denmark, should be confined to the quotation marks of reducing the supply of labour by 250, which has already happened, or is it the Minister's ambition that it should compensate for the 250 with which the supply of labour has already weakened? It is simply to understand what the government's ambition is in relation to the work that has been undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145801	As I also answered Mr. Hans Andersen on the previous question, the mandate is knitted so along with the recommendations that the Commission must give that it must be cost neutral, excluding the temporary family allowance. This also applies, of course, on the assumption that the weakening that may be in the supply of work, as everything else is very theoretical, because it is so small, is exclusive of what has been brought up to the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145835	Thank you for that answer, because it was open and honest: the deterioration in the job supply • the lower employment that will apply, because the government has made this agreement for a temporary allowance • must then be continued. So the government will not remedy the weakening of employment caused by the agreement on temporary family allowances as a result of the work of the Service Commission. I think that is sad, and that is kind of what was my fear and therefore my concern in my question. Thank you! ) After all, the government has in its paper of understanding a provision that the supply of labour as a whole must not be weakened. I just want to know what initiatives the government intends to take to compensate for the reduced labour supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145921	I don't know if I formulated myself clumsy. I guess I did, and I take that on my head. But I think the questioner misunderstood my answer, because what was the answer was that the Commission's task is to make recommendations that are cost-neutral, excluding temporary family allowances. It must therefore be understood that they must be cost-neutral within the existing system, except for the fact that you should not count it with what has been given in the temporary allowance. It must be within the existing system without the temporary allowance. So this applies both to the additional cost, but also to the theoretical weakening of the supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145956	The questioner, half a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115145957	Then it may well be that the Minister has formulated himself clumsyly; it may also be that I have listened wrong but okay, then I must correct my follow-up comment. In other words, the temporary weakening of labour supply must then be reduced by the agreement. It is thus positive that the Commission should come up with a model which eliminates the deterioration in the supply of work caused by temporary family allowances. I think that is, in fact, positive news.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150028	In any case, that is the training given to the Commission. And we also know very well that this is a difficult task we have put to the Commission because many changes have been made to our performance system for many years. There are many knob shots, the rules are very complicated. That's actually also in the end why we've asked smart people with Torben Tranæs to try to lock themselves up in a room and think carefully about these things. After all, our hope is that we will be able to reach a very broad political agreement on the system of benefits for the future, so that we also avoid what has been the trend over the past too many years in my view, namely that when one government comes in, the benefits will be adjusted in one direction, and when the other government comes in, the benefits will be adjusted in the other direction, and in the middle some of those who need security are on our lower safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150114	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, and this is addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150124	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150125	The question is: does the Minister want a future political agreement to follow up the recommendations of the Service Commission to mean that the group, for whom it is not worthwhile to work, increases or falls in relation to the situation before the temporary family allowance came into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150138	Thank you for the question. As I have pointed out in the previous replies in relation to the Service Commission, it is a premise for the work of the Commission that there must be a significant gain by taking a job. The Service Commission has now been given a year to make its recommendations for a new cash assistance system. I do not want to anticipate the course of events and start to wonder now what is to be in a political agreement as a follow-up to the work of the Commission. However, there is no doubt that the ceiling on cash benefits has hit some cash aid recipients hard on the wallet. In particular, some of the families of children have been hit hard. This is most often due to the fact that they have the largest rents and therefore lose most if they are hit by the cash benefits ceiling. We have asked the benefit commission to take this into account, so that you have a fair standard of living for a temporary period of absence from work. However, I can completely deny the claim that we have given the Services Commission carte blanche to simply remove the cash benefits ceiling and roll the system back completely to the time before the cash benefits ceiling. The government firmly believes that the best thing for the children is for Mom and Dad to get to work, and that means that we have made a claim to the Service Commission that there must be a significant gain by also taking on a job. Once the Commission has presented its recommendations in a year's time, I will call for negotiations on the future cash assistance system, and then I hope that we will be able to reach an ambitious political agreement that calms down the cash assistance system and ensures that it is robust and future-proof.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150308	Thank you. I think perhaps the Minister should have mentioned what has happened in the field of cash aid over the past many years. After all, tens of thousands of children are waking up every morning to a mother and father who is no longer on cash benefits but who goes to work or has come into education. That's one of them. a consequence of the ceiling on cash benefits. I think that is the greatest social policy gain in decades: so many children experience that mother and father go to work and are not at home. Because if there's something that's a negative social legacy, it's, unfortunately, cash benefits. That's one of the things that's the most inherited allerallerler, unfortunately. So that there are now more children who experience that mother and father can support themselves is simply excellent news that we cannot emphasise enough. And that's one of the results of the cash benefits ceiling. That is why there is my political interest, not botany, but rather a political interest, as the Minister emphasizes to some extent in his reply, namely that it is important that work should be worthwhile. It has thus been a common thread through a long series of political agreements over the past many years at Christiansborg, from initiatives to lower the tax on work made by VK governments, the agreement with the government Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt, of which my party was also a part, to also lower taxes on work carried out under the last Left-led government. But it's also a cash aid ceiling. There has been a clear ambition, at least in my party and sometimes also in the seconds of the Social Democratic Party, that the aim was to reduce the group for which it is extremely modest to pay to work or, in fact, cannot talk about working at all. Because there is also something moral about it if people are to bring money to work in relation to being at home. Is there an ambition on the part of the government that the number that has fallen somewhat over recent years should decrease further with the work of the Commission on Performance and its political recommendation, or is it irrelevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150520	There is certainly an ambition to • that is a major reason why I am a Socialist • that more people are going to join the working community. And Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is quite right in saying that there has been a very, very positive development over the past many years, where a great many have gone from cash benefits or other benefits to work. Much of it is due to many different things. This is because, I believe, we have started to do some other things in the social policy area by a broad majority. More people have played a very important role. The cash benefits reform has played an important role. The ceiling on cash benefits, with the modest contribution of 450 more people in labour supply, has certainly also played a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150610	The questioner. It's 30 minutes. Thirty minutes, it's gonna be a party!). No, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150614	I'm trying to limit myself to 30 seconds anyway. Yes, it was such a review of sensible measures, good actions we have made, but there was not really any answer to what the government's ambition is with the work that the Service Commission has to do. Should the difference between being on passive support and being in active employment increase according to the government's ambition level, and should several Danes experience that the benefit of working becomes greater, i.e. that the amount of Danes, for whom it does not pay to work, is reduced as a result of this exercise?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150654	Even after the temporary family allowances, which are not part of the Commission's task to continue in its recommendations, there is a considerable financial gain from being in work rather than being on cash benefits. And one of the things I sometimes miss from the Left is the recognition that for a very, very many people who are on cash benefits, and for some others on other benefits, it is other problems than the lack of work that prevent them from being in employment. It could be education. For too many, these are also much deeper social challenges. It can be abuse, it can be anything else. Those things will not be solved by reducing benefits only.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150735	The Minister is quite right about this, but I do not claim that it is one in one, crown in one, crown in one, how to get a drug addict into work. But it is very important for the social security recipients, and it is important for me to say that it is important. What is the difference between active employment and passive support? We have tried to increase that amount, and we have tried to reduce the number of Danes for whom the difference is too small, and there I just want to get an answer from the government. Does the government share that ambition and should the positive developments that have taken place over a number of years continue with a Commission on Performance, or is it less relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150818	Thank you. Then the minister has 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150820	In the government, we fully share the desire that there should be a noticeable economic benefit from being in work rather than not being in work. At the same time, in the government, we are fully concerned that there must also be balance in our benefit system, which takes into account, for example, families with children, many of whom are on cash benefits or other benefits, because they have other problems than lack of work. These are the balances we want to see, so that we do not also carry on with some of the problems that some of these parents have for the next generation, because overall it will be more expensive for society to try to do something about and to have to provide proper conditions for the upbringing of these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150905	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150917	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115150918	Thank you to the Minister for Employment for giving me the opportunity to ask a few questions. I would like to start by reading the question: does the Minister believe that it will help to combat the ghetto problems we unfortunately have around the larger cities if the Service Commission makes recommendations to raise social benefits to, among other things. the integration benefit recipients in and around Copenhagen, referring to the fact that the Service Commission must make recommendations which include: should ensure that citizens and families in the cash benefits system who do not have other benefits have a similar standard of living?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151003	Thank you for the question. With reference to the terms of reference of the Service Commission, it is asked whether I think it would help ghetto problems if the Service Commission were to propose an increase in benefits for integration benefit recipients. First of all, I would like to stress that the government is very aware of the challenges we face in ghetto areas in Denmark and in the field of integration at all. That is why we are currently working on, for example: the proposal to require new entrants and other foreigners with an integration need to contribute for 37 hours corresponding to a regular working week. However, the fight against parallel societies is not just about benefits. It is also about having children and young people in the ghetto areas in school and changing the composition of residents in the areas. Secondly, I think that this is a rather hypothetical situation to which the questioner is asking me to respond, especially if you read the mandate in its entirety. It is the government's view that the current cash assistance system has become unbalanced due to a number of ongoing adjustments and bud shootings. The government wants a new system of benefits to be balanced, which is why we have emphasized two aspects in the terms of reference for the work of the Service Commission: there must continue to be a substantial economic benefit from being in work and there must be a fair standard of living for a temporary period of absence from work. At the same time, it is clear directly from the terms of reference of the Service Commission's work that newcomers must contribute to society for a period of time before they can benefit fully from the Danish welfare benefits. The Commission must therefore consider a balanced profit principle where the level of benefit does not become an independent attraction factor and where the level encourages self-reliance. Consequently, persons who do not comply with the residence requirements are not expected to be entitled to full benefits in a new benefit system as a rule. Now the Commission is about to start its work, which I look forward to following. I hope that together we can give them the necessary peace of mind and then I will look forward to meeting with the parties of the Danish Parliament to reach an agreement on a robust and future-proof cash assistance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151202	Thank you for your answer. This makes me wonder whether the Minister actually acknowledges that there is a link between the amount of benefits and the ghetto problems that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151219	Yes, I certainly believe that there is a connection, but I also believe that a number of the ghetto problems we see are due to some quite different factors than the level of benefits. This is due to a housing policy throughout everything, too many years, which has not been thought through. This is due to a school policy which has not been thought through either. This is because, in my opinion, too loose an approach to making demands on many of the people who have come here, and that is also true for many of their children. I believe that this is due to a great many different things over a long period of time, i.e. things that go beyond the level of performance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151308	It's 30 seconds out. Yes, I'm sorry). The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151309	Thank you for your answer. I am very much in agreement with the Minister that, of course, there is not such a single reason that this binary gives rise to a number of reasons. But can the Minister perhaps not, if we now agree that there are several reasons, like pointing out what services mean separately for the ghetto problems we have if we are to focus on one area in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151337	Well, services have played and certainly play a part. We in the government are very inspired by what has been done at least in a municipality up in Norway, and that is one of the reasons why we have been inspired by what people like. in Mjølnerparken recommends. It is in fact making demands on the people who have come to Denmark and who then also receive benefits. I have no doubt that there are social and cultural standards which mean, for example, that a great many women do not enter the labour market, but are more or less free to receive benefits, and that, moreover, there have been no proper demands on the part of the job centres or, at the time, on the part of the employment services. So, of course, services play a role in every possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151427	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151428	So it is logical on my part to follow it up by asking the Minister whether initiatives are being planned to ensure that unemployed immigrants in ghettos in particular are not kept on passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151439	Then the Minister has 30 seconds for his final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151441	Yes, it is there, and one of the most important is the whole proposal that we are trying to put into practice and which is about demanding that we have a duty to contribute for 37 hours a week in order to be able to receive a benefit at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151458	Thank you. The question is closed. But we will continue with both the Minister for Employment and Mr. Mads Birded, and that's Question No. 19.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151507	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151507-2	Thank you. I will read out the next question: is it a demand from the government that all parties behind the understanding paper should enter into an agreement on a new benefit system when the government calls for negotiations after the Commission of Service has presented its recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151527	Thank you for the question. The Service Commission is shown on the understanding paper, but the government cannot, of course, make demands on who ends up wanting to enter into an agreement. In any case, it is far too early to go into such considerations - the Service Commission first has to start work. It is of course the Government's hope that the parties behind the understanding paper will be included in a subsequent agreement. For the government, it is important that we have a robust and future-proof cash assistance system, which is why I hope that all parties in the Folketing will enter into the negotiations constructively when the time comes. I therefore hope that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Service Commission, we will be able to reach a broad political agreement on a new cash assistance system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151610	However, SF has made it an ultimate requirement that the ceiling on cash benefits should be abolished completely, so if SF is to be included in an agreement on a new benefit system, it is to be expected that the ceiling on cash benefits will have to be removed or you will not be able to reach such an agreement. Does the Minister consider that SF should be included in a future agreement on a new system of benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151634	I have a very, very great hope that SF will end up in an agreement on a new performance system. I think the SF should wait and see what it is that the Service Commission ends up recommending. What has been brought up all the way through what we have said before the elections, what we said in the election campaign, what we have said afterwards, and also what we have asked the Service Commission to do, has been to see if there is anything better than the ceiling for cash benefits that will find some better balance. But I have a very great hope that SF is in, just as I have a great hope that the Left is in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151709-2	After all, the government has concluded an agreement with the support parties on a temporary family allowance, which means that unemployed immigrants in particular are given more money between their hands. There is an expectation among the aid parties that the temporary family allowance is not as temporary as it is in its name, but that it is a permanent scheme. Does the Minister wish to respond to a request from the parties behind the government that the temporary family allowance be made permanent so that unemployed immigrants get even more money between their hands? Or will the Minister not be able to deliver on such a request and thus not be able to make an agreement bypassing the support parties, as has just been said, because we would never be part of such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151752	Let's go, sir. Mads Birded didn't reveal all the cards left on his hand. I'm sure I could figure out the last part to some extent, but nevertheless. After all, we have deliberately asked the Service Commission to make its recommendations, on the back of the fact that they have to be cost-neutral, and that is because we already spend a great deal of money in the whole system of benefits in general, but at the same time we can also see that there are imbalances, knobs and very complicated rules. Against this background, we also have a presumption that a great deal of money is being wasted in the system of benefits, and that is why, I believe, we also have a hope that the wise people we have put in charge of the work of the Commission can find some good proposals for better balances.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151835	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151837	But the truth is that if we are to make an agreement with parties that have the demands they have so far put forward, it will be very difficult to deliver on the promise that we have made to the electorate that we will not relax our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151854	In the government and in the Social Democratic Party, we are totally on the guard that we have no desire whatsoever, no intention whatsoever of relaxing the broad policy of foreigners. But what we hope for is that many parties will take responsibility for ensuring that, on the one hand, there is a clear financial benefit from being in work and, on the other hand, that the families who are temporarily out of work and, on the other hand, have problems other than lack of work have a decent and dignified basis of living that does not affect children. That is what we hope the Commission can make some good recommendations on which we can bring together a broad majority in the Folketing behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151934	Thank you. That was the last answer to that question. So thank you to the Minister for Employment and to Mr. Mads Birded. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20, and it is addressed to the Minister for the Environment by Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151945	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115151946	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152001	The initiatives in the plastic action plan •Plasticity without waste• are in the process of being implemented. It is a four-year plan, so it is clear that all initiatives have not been implemented in the first year. The implementation of the various initiatives is in line with the plan put forward by the previous government. I haven't changed that one. On the contrary, I have increased the level of ambition and taken further initiatives. Firstly, I have decided that the minimum price for carrier bags should be 4 kroner, so that we seriously reduce unnecessary consumption and avoid circumventing the rules. Secondly, the packaging tax on carrier bags and one-off services has tripled as part of the financial agreement on 1 January of this year, so that we can get rid of consumption and throw away culture. Thirdly, I have joined Denmark in working with a European Plastic Pact, where other ambitious European countries and a large number of companies join forces to ensure better design, more recycling, a reduction in plastic consumption and a reduction in the export of plastic waste from Europe. So I have clearly prioritised efforts in the area of plastics, set a new direction and increased both the pace and the level of ambition in relation to the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152115	Thank you for your answer and thank you for going through more initiatives in detail. This is an area that means a great deal to me and to the Left. In fact, this was an area in which I myself went to the polls, namely that we should be better able to recycle. And the then government with the then Environment and Food Minister, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, made this plastic action plan from December 2018. We did this because there are some challenges in the plastic sector. We are simply not good enough to recycle our domestic waste. That is why we also need better waste sorting and that we have both a more uniform sorting and a more uniform collection. The fact that we cannot do this the same creates confusion in all of us, individually, and that makes it more difficult to recycle where the waste goes. Why is it that it takes more than a year to introduce uniform standards for sorting and collection? Is there anything else that has been given priority instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152218	No, there isn't. I would say that plastic is really one of the areas where we need to do much more and where there is also the potential to do much more. And that was also one of the reasons why we were critical of the plastic action plan that the previous government made. There are, of course, some initiatives there and the plastic centre is in progress and, as I mentioned, it is the rapporteur's own President who made that timetable. This is what is being followed. I'll put something on top of that. And what we are doing, among other things, is putting on a full turbo. Now Denmark must have a national waste plan, where we must have this alignment in relation to collection and sorting, so that we can actually recycle and recycle more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152259	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152300	I regret that I am so impatient in implementing these initiatives in the plastic action plan. And I have also asked in writing about this in a committee question, but have the feedback that the professional basis is being examined and so on. I just do not understand why initiatives to standardise sorting and collection are not being launched. When will we get a one-way sorting and collecting? There are also a lot of other initiatives in this plastic action plan: what about national campaigns? There is still a lot of ignorance about how to sort, for example. in relation to the gift paper from Christmas Eve or biodegradable plastic that does not need to be in the plastic waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152339	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152340	I am, in fact, pleased that the rapporteur is committed and I hope that the Left will also be involved in some of the agreements that need to be made so that we can actually lift this area. Because what was the whole problem with the previous plan was that it was too little. In fact, that was far too little to meet the huge challenge we face in relation to plastic. I believe that waste sorting is one of the keys to doing so, but one might ask: if it were so important for the Left, could it not have been implemented when one was in government? You didn't. However, the waste plan will have to be drawn up here by 2020 and I very much hope that the Left will be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152414-2	Thank you for that answer. Just to round off, and in order for me to understand that too, I would like to ask whether this means that, in 2020, we will have an alignment of sorting and collection to be rolled out in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152430	It's our clear ambition that we also announced in good time before the elections that we want there to be a streamlining of the way in which waste is collected in Denmark. For well enough, it may not happen in 98 different ways, but there are too many different ways to collect across municipalities, and that makes it really difficult actually recycle and recycle more; and that's what we need to do. But it just can't stand alone. We also need to get the design part. We also need to get to the European level where, together with all the other progressive countries, we need to do much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152502	Thank you. That is also what Mrs Bjerre has to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152510	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152512	Does the Minister consider it satisfactory that the government, with the Finance Act, makes it more expensive to use recycled plastics?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152522	Thank you for the question. With the 2020 Finance Act, it will be more expensive to use products that are thrown away after a single use. Yes, we need to recycle more, but the prevention of waste is the most effective means of green conversion, so the purpose of triple the packaging tax on plastic and paper bags and one-off services is to reduce consumption and reduce waste amounts. We get approx. 6,000 tonnes of less waste a year out of it. So we have to get away from this use and throw away culture, and it doesn't matter which materials are involved. The packaging charge on carrier bags and disposable service made from new plastic and recycled plastic therefore increases equally. However, the government is also concerned with ensuring increased use of recycled plastic, which is why it has also been agreed in the context of the 2020 Finance Act that it should be examined whether the packaging tax on carrier bags and one-off services can be differentiated according to it. It is not as simple as one might want a differentiated packaging tax to be assessed on the basis of an overall analysis of the environmental impact of different materials. It has to be done, for example. ensure that it does not involve a higher amount of waste for incineration with higher CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152645	Thank you for your answer. The Government and the Left fully share the ambition that we should, of course, have less plastic consumption and a smaller packaging foreclosure, but this triple tax on packaging seems to us to be just going down the wrong road. After all, we cannot do without plastic, which is why there will also be some packaging that needs to be replaced by some types that are more green, such as recycled plastic. It will also get the circular economy going. For example, if you go to JOE & THE JUICE, you get your juice and there you need some packaging for it, and there we would like to see you use something that is made of recycled plastic. What does the minister think you're gonna be wearing in a porcelain scoop? And what if you buy an ice cream from Paradis in the summer? How do you bring it if it is not in any packaging? Well, we have to have some packaging, and what we have in the Left is actually preoccupied with is greener and preferably made of recycled plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152747	I fully agree that we have more recycled plastics. What is just the big challenge for Denmark is that we have too big a climate footprint as Danes. I think it really surprises many Danes that, although we think we are the green dox in a large number of areas, we are not, of course, when it comes to consumption and production, and therefore we cannot simply say that more recycled plastic has to be used; we must also reduce the consumption of plastic itself, and that is why we triple the packaging tax. I wish, since the Left says that you are so interested in this, that you actually supported it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152826	If the Minister agrees that we need more green alternatives and more recycled plastics, why not make a differentiated tax so that it would not be so much more expensive to use recycled plastics? The problem is that it will be significantly more expensive with green alternatives, because it will be measured on the basis of weight, and the green alternatives are just more expensive because recycled plastic weighs more, biodegradable plastic weighs more, bio-based plastic weighs more. Why did not a differentiated tax or wait for legislation to come into force? It has already entered into force here on 1 January so that the green alternative could have been rethought?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152902	I am slightly confused, because the rapporteur stands at one moment and says that it can only go too slowly and then we do something quite concrete that is good in terms of ensuring that we actually reduce consumption in Denmark. It is estimated that this will mean approx. a 40% reduction in the consumption of disposable plastics. That's where I think it's too bad when we do this, that the Left doesn't back up. How can you both be impatient one moment and then the other say: No, wait a minute? That's what the challenge is, isn't it? We are actually doing something, and it has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115152937	Yes, we are impatient to have more plastic recycled, but this charge does absolutely the opposite; it does, of course, mean that there is no incentive to recycle because it becomes more expensive to make recycled plastic. Many of the companies that buy recycled packaging have been out to say that now they have to drop the plans and instead buy clean, new plastic. That's a big challenge, isn't it? The minister can't see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153008	Firstly, this packaging tax has an effect, and that is really important because we do not have time to sit on our hands. Something has to happen now, and we are doing it with this tax, but of course it cannot stand alone. Then there is the challenge of differentiation. That is, of course, what I said about the fact that we are already aware of the question: can there be any differentiation? But there are also some challenges with saying that something is biodegradable. Under what circumstances, for example:? Is it also under Danish conditions? How can we ensure that what is said is biodegradable can actually be included in the waste system we have? So there is a need to look at it wisely. However, ensuring a triple of the packaging tax has a direct and good and green effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153050	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and thank you to Mrs Bjerre. The last question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 22 is for the Minister of Culture, and that is the position of Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153103	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153104	First of all, welcome back to the Minister for Culture. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that the royally privileged inns in Denmark, who are allowed to use the royal crown at their inns, should not also be allowed to use the royal crown in their pamphlets?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153128	Thank you very much for the question and thank you for your gratitude. The answer to your question requires such a little history as lies in the use of the king's crown. For the short answer might be that the inns that were able to search and obtain permission to use these royal crowns may also be allowed to use them, for example. in their pamphlets, on their letter papers and on their website. But they can only use it in this way if it is included as a natural part of a photograph of the inn building or of the close surroundings of the inn building. So that way it can be included. However, at the time of a unanimous Parliament in 2016, the change that made it legal for these inns to use the royal crown was decided to impose some restrictions, that is to say that they could only do so under these very special conditions. When I read back in the history, I see it as there have been considerations of a balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of the royal crown, which we use as a characteristic of the royal house and state authorities, but, on the other hand, also saw a sincere desire from a united Parliament • all parties to allow these inns to convey a cultural historical tradition by precisely using the royal crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153247	Now I fully agree that the Minister has prepared himself for the individual question and that it may be difficult for the Minister to become more elaborate, but I have an email correspondence in which it is actually answered from the National Archives that one should not use an illustration of a tavern or the like on the front page, i.e. take a picture of the inn and use it. If the Minister so wishes, I can put the question for a written answer, but if the Minister can answer it now, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153315	In the guidelines I have read up to today to answer the question, it is at least reproduced that if the royal crown is as part of the appearance of the inn building, you can also use it on photographs, leaflets, i.e. use the photograph in leaflets on websites. If the questioner has a specific correspondence to which a specific answer is sought, then I would ask the questioner to send it to the Ministry and then I will reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153346	It comes as a written question. I understand the history of it, but could the Minister perhaps be willing to look at whether one might be allowed to use the closed royal crown on a pamphlet, that is, where it is like this illustration or does the Minister think that because the Danish Parliament has once made the decision, it should not be looked at further?
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153417	Thank you, and just before I give the floor to the Minister, just to make it easier for the Minister to answer the questions, I would like to say that, of course, the documents that need to be responded to must be available. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153429	I think that the balance is very good in the adopted law. It was also given quite a long time for one to apply to be allowed to use these royal crowns. In order to answer your question, as I heard, whether I and the government want to review this law in order to allow for a more lenient use of the royal crown, which is also used by government authorities, I would say: No, it is not my view that it would be good. It is a fine balance that has been found, and I shall then look forward to looking at the concrete example.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153505	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153507	Of course, I totally agree with that. The Minister's answer just surprised me because I had the exact opposite here, and I was actually struck by that. Of course, the Minister must have the opportunity to prepare himself as best he can. However, as I hear the Minister, there is a fine balance and you do not want to go ahead with that part of it, and the rest I will pursue in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153526	I look forward to receiving the concrete approach and the continuing dialogue to find this balance between the practical reality and then to get our history communicated. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153539	Thank you to the Minister for Culture and to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200115153546	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 16 January 2020, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
