ParlaMint-DK_20201208130002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130007	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130016	Thank you. Let me start by telling you how many Danes have now been infected in the last 24 hours. That is 2,150, and it is a very strong emphasis on how serious the situation is, and that is why we chose yesterday to extend the restrictions and introduce partial decommissioning in 38 municipalities. I would like to express my special thanks to the Chairman of the Left, Mr President, for his support in this House. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, to stress the seriousness of the current situation. It is well known that in recent weeks there has been a sharp political debate. Of course, there must be room for that, but when it really matters, we are moving together here in the Folketing, and I have no doubt that it is even very important for our ability to manage both as a country and as a population over the coming period and to be able to get through the pandemic. We're going through this pandemic, and we're going to have to do it humanly, and we're going to have to do it financially. I am pleased that a broad majority has agreed to support exports, extend the aid packages and allow the two last weeks of frozen holiday money to be paid in the spring. That's the urgent help. At the same time, we are laying the tracks for a more green future. Denmark is the EU's largest oil country, and now we have again broadly agreed in the Danish Parliament to put an end date on oil extraction. That is, it has to be said, a strong signal to the rest of the world that this is where we are taking the lead in the green transition. We are also doing so with the car agreement that is in place now, which will ensure 775 000 green cars in just 10 years' time. Thank you to the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten for the agreement. This is important in order to achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse gases by 70%. in 2030. We are now also improving nature and biodiversity in Denmark, 13 new national parks and much more untouched forests. It is part of the Finance Act for next year, a Finance Act that also advances minimum standards, invests in education and makes money available to recruit more staff in the care of the elderly. In addition, it is also an agreement that stimulates our economy and, among other things, our economy. help those who, unfortunately, have been hit by unemployment. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Mrs Pernille Skipper and Mr. Torsten Gejl for an amazingly good collaboration. A year and a half ago, we agreed on a new direction for Denmark. We are now delivering this together, and thank you to all parties in the Folketing who are involved in broad agreements. We have concluded and maintained almost 60 agreements since the government took office, and we are currently negotiating on a green tax reform and hopefully also a good agreement on the police. In the government these days, we are keeping a particularly close eye on the development of the brexite negotiations. There is much at stake for Denmark, for Danish industry and for Danish fishing. Although time is short, it is crucial that we get a good agreement and we push for that from the Danish Government. Today I have just sent a letter to six people from Greenland. Almost 70 years ago, as part of a Danish experiment, you were moved from your families in Greenland to a stay in Denmark to become a so-called foreguard for development in Greenland. But the consideration for you as human beings was set aside, many of you lost the bond to your families, to your family, to your life history and to Greenland, and when you came home to Greenland, you were even placed in orphanages. We cannot change the past, but we can take responsibility and apologize to those whom we failed. In the letter I have therefore given an unreserved and long-awaited apology on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130419	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question Time with the party leaders. I have to inform you that Mr. Edmund Joensen and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale is not present because of restrictions on the Faroe Islands, as I have understood. It happens as usual, with first 2 minutes and then 1 minute. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130441	Thank you very much. As Greenlandic MPs, we work almost 4,000 km away from home. It requires a special creativity of us when we want to continuously involve our hinterland at home in Greenland, especially here in the coronatide. Fortunately, we have social media, and as part of the preparation for today's Question Time, I gave my followers on Facebook the opportunity to be a member of parliament for one day and to provide input for Question Time. There were 200-300 good bids coming from Greenland, and at a start I was to greet the Prime Minister and say thank you very much for the fantastic work in fighting Corona, and I should give you a great greeting from the consequences in Greenland too. The report on the experiments has been published today, and the Prime Minister has just announced that she would like to apologize to the experimental children. We from IA are really, really happy about that. Many of the bids I received were about this very apology, and I'm sorry I get a little touched, but I really want to thank you for having the courage to apologize to this one. I spoke to one of the people who was part of the experiment earlier today, and I have no doubt that it is a day of joy for them today. The report also briefly affects the adopters • 250 adopters • who also became part of something that looked like an experiment, and we also think it is important to ensure justice for them. The self-governance law has a goal that we should work for an equal partnership. There are many in Greenland who do not experience an equal worth when we let our thoughts slide towards the dark chapters of our common history, and in my optics they also stand in the way of equality between our two countries. Therefore, I would like to begin by asking the Prime Minister what she will do to continue to strengthen equality in the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130644	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130646	Thank you for that question. These are heartbreaking stories with the group of experimental children. There are not many left, and we might as well say it as it is, namely that although they are not really very old, the vast majority have already died prematurely. And a lot of these kids got a bad life afterwards because they lost touch with what they came from and their roots. I would recommend that everyone read the historical analysis that has been made. It is thought-provoking, and it is a dark chapter in our history, and just as we have dark chapters in Danish history as regards the care of some of the most vulnerable children and young people, it is also true in the cooperation around the experimental children, as they are often called. So I am glad that we have had this investigation done, and I think that is an important part of the answer to the question being asked here: how do we reconcile ourselves? Because we have a great history together in the Danish and Greenlandic community, but there are also dark chapters. Something has been done in the best sense, but nevertheless with painful consequences for the people involved. I have to say, after many conversations with Greenlanders on this very question, that I have come to this point myself, that I think that the only way, in terms of how we reconcile with the past, is to face it, that we get it properly described and that, as today, we also get an apology to the six who are left from the experiment there from the beginning of the 1950s. I believe that this is also an important prerequisite for achieving the equality that we must have. In everyday political cooperation, the relationship is, of course, equal. I believe that we have strong community cooperation today, and we are now strengthening it on foreign policy, but we have to face up to our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130841	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130842	Thank you very much. I agree. In the comments that I received from Greenland, there is a clear concern. This is not a new concern, but a very serious concern. It is about the ignorance that you can experience in Danish society when it comes to Greenland. I say this with all due respect, not to blame the individual, but to raise it to a political level. The ignorance helps create stereotypes, and it helps to marginalise the population groups and Greenland and Greenlanders in Denmark. For some Danes, social problems become the full picture of us coming from Greenland, and it hurts. It feels unfair, and it prevents many from taking a greater part in the community. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: What can we do to strengthen knowledge about Greenland in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208130937	In fact, I very much agree with what is being said here, namely that there are too many stereotypes around Greenlanders in Denmark. You can see it, and you can hear it. We also often get descriptions of it. It goes well, it has to be said, very precisely on what is being raised here in the Question Time today, namely that one will believe that many Greenlanders in Denmark have social problems and to say that it is drinking too much, and some of it is well known from the street picture. There's a lot of truth in this. The vast majority of Greenlanders living in Denmark live ordinary, good lives with jobs and with education. We also have a group of Greenlanders in Denmark, and they are very, very welcome, dear fellow citizens who are not well. In fact, I do not think we have the ability to take good care of them, and too often we leave them to the conditions that are on the street. So here I think we should walk on two legs. We need stronger social action. This is true in my own home town, Aalborg, where we have many Greenlanders with social challenges, and it applies a few meters from here at Christianshavns Square and elsewhere, but in relation to the broad part of the Greenlandic population, what we are doing right now is challenging the stereotypes and dogma and recognising everything that our Greenlandic fellow citizens bring with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131053	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131054	Thank you very much. A concrete example is precisely the group of Greenlanders mentioned by the Prime Minister, who do not have a strong link with the labour market. That doesn't help prejudice. That is why we also believe that it is not only about knowledge and to ensure more knowledge, but it is also about addressing the real issues that exist. The employment of the Greenlanders is an area which the government can directly influence and which we are very concerned about by the IA. With a pool of only 2 million. In fact, we have very good success stories both from Aalborg and from Odense, despite the fact that there has been corona. In Aalborg, about 100 Greenlanders are expected to be employed in different positions on the basis of the efforts we have made to secure here in the Folketing, but the money allocation expires here later this year. How does the Prime Minister feel about more targeted initiatives aimed precisely at this group of vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131154	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131156	I actually believe that when stereotypes are built up in our society, or when stigmatisation takes place, we can of course do something with some local efforts, and we allocate that from time to time in the Folketing, but the most important thing is the cultural issue. That's actually what's happening here. We have an exchange of words in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we agree with each other that we will have a fight with the stereotypes. And we need more equality and more respect between Denmark and Greenland and Danes and Greenlanders. I often marvel at how small a role the kingdom community plays in our folk culture here, considering how integrated a part we are in each other's history. So I think we should continue the discussion that has started today. In any case, I would very much like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131243	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131254	Qujanaq. First of all, I should like to express my sincere thanks to the Prime Minister for a short time ago, on behalf of the state, to apologise to the 22 Greenlandic experimental children. It has been many years, yes, almost a lifetime along the way, and I would like to sign the Prime Minister for her courage and compassion, which has resulted in the long-awaited apology. It is clear to see that new politicians need new ideas, with their hearts in the right place and with the courage to look at society freshly in order to move society in a better direction. So from all of us who are affected by it in one way or another, which is almost all of Greenland, from the experimental children, their loved ones and their families and their children: thank you very much. I would like to touch on foreign policy in my questions. When it comes to foreign and security policy, Siumut believes that Denmark involves Greenland much more in foreign and security policy matters than has been done in the past and that it is a step in the right direction. As can be seen from this year's foreign policy statement by the self-government, it is well in line with the fact that the Greenlandic people, who are the Arctic people of the Kingdom, are also included, as our future is at stake. Now we're about to write 2021, and in four years' time the kingdom will again take over the presidency of the Arctic Council. How does the Prime Minister feel about Greenland playing a much more performing and active role in 2025 when the Kingdom is again to lead the presidency of the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131501	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131503	Thank you. There is no doubt that in the years to come our Commonwealth will undergo a major change when it comes to foreign and security policy issues. It is both because all three of us are striving for greater equality in our cooperation, and foreign policy plays an important role, but it is also because reality changes. For many years we have stood shoulder to shoulder in the desire for low voltage in the Arctic. Now we see an increasingly aggressive game in and around the Arctic, not least from the Russian and Chinese side, and the Arctic is thus getting higher on the security policy agenda. We must be able to deal with this jointly in the Kingdom community. That is why we are in the process and have been strengthening our cooperation and ties for a long time. We are very aware in Denmark that our role in the Arctic alone has to do with our kingdom community. When you're standing here in Copenhagen or on the Jutland heath, you're not in the Arctic. It is the kingdom community that is in the Arctic qua the total kingdom and the total kingdom community. Therefore, it is of course absolutely crucial that Greenland plays a very, very important role, both in the organisation of our work in and around the Arctic, but also in relation to the issue that is being raised here. I would also like to thank you for your opening words. I remember, when many of us were engaged years ago on the question of the godhavn boys, that it took some time before many understood how important it was for our goodhavn children to get that apology. Now it is widely recognised in Denmark, but we must certainly go through the same with regard to the experimental children from Greenland. I am not sure that everyone knows yet how much pain has been inflicted on the people who have lived with it since then and who hopefully get more peace of mind with the excuse given today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131702	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131705	Thank you so much for both answers. After all, it is still Danish politicians and officials who draw on the Arctic politics of the Kingdom, and this expression of democratic deficit in the empire will also be remedied by involving the Arctic people. The Arctic strategy for the next 10 years is being completed, while the Naala Suisut in Greenland is also considering how to increase our influence in the kingdom's Arctic policy. So when can the Prime Minister see Greenland as the only country actually located in the Arctic being placed on real presidency posts in an international forum such as the Arctic Council? That is my question. But to get back to it quickly with the apology to the goodport boys and the Greenlandic children, this is much bigger, because at that time the Greenlandic people were told that you were not good enough as you were, and that excuse is also taken in the way that it was a mistake to say that a people was not good enough as it was. We all take a lot of care of that, so thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131818	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131820	That is exactly what is at the heart of it, namely that you would take Greenland out of the Greenlandic children and you should not take a people's culture out of a people. After all, this leads back to the discussion we had before, that is, that the Kingdom Community is a cooperation and that it must be an equal, decent and respectful cooperation. That is why we must also dare to look into our common history where mistakes have been made and also recognise the human pain, especially with regard to the experimental children who live. I had the honour of being allowed to meet one of the few remaining when I was in Greenland lately, and no one must be in any doubt that very great human pain has been caused by this. Now I am not sure that I will be able to answer the question of the Arctic. I will be as brief as saying that we need very, very close cooperation in the preparations for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131927	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Please ask the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131930	Yes, and then I just think that it will be a bit the same question as what I started asking, namely how to involve Greenland in relation to the real presidency posts in international forums such as the Arctic Council. And in conclusion, I wish the Prime Minister and her family a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131953	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208131955	Thank you. We recognise that Greenland has a very special status when it comes to the Arctic, and that is why we have to include Greenland. have closer daily cooperation on the Arctic. We are about to extend our defence agreement as far as the Arctic is concerned, so the Arctic will play a very important role, and Greenland's participation is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132023	Then we say thank you to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, and then it is Mr Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132031	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, as the Prime Minister said before, there is an increasing infection in society. These are serious figures mentioned by the Prime Minister, something that deeply worries the Left, something that deeply worries me. That is why I would just like to begin by calling on all of us to do what we did in the spring and which we did well in the spring: that we take into account each other, that we take our individual responsibility, that we keep separate from each other and that we get the infection down and that we do it now. Earlier in this Chamber, we have seen that the Prime Minister and also other party leaders have so accused the blue parties of not looking into the health of the Danes, because we are going a little to the waffles because we criticise the government because we are asking questions to the government. It is a rhetoric that does not benefit confidence in us; it is a rhetoric that does not benefit trust between us; and I think that is something that needs to be shelved. We need to take care of Denmark; we need to take care of each other. Everyone in this room is in complete agreement on this, and there is no question about it. So now, when I continue to ask critical questions to the government, to the Prime Minister, I am still concerned about the spread of infection, I am still concerned about the health of the Danes, but I am also concerned about the way the Prime Minister conducts his government. And we must be allowed and allowed to be in a democracy. I would like to address one of the stories that has been published in B.T. In the past. It appears that the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff has not only been involved in, but has dictated what it now former Minister of Food should say about the mink case in the situation where the former Minister of Food had come to confess or admit that the government knew that an illegal order was given, but that it was urgent, so they did so anyway. There was the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff so involved in telling the Minister of Food what to think. And that is a bit funny, otherwise the Prime Minister has placed all the responsibility with the former Minister for Food. So I just need to know if the Chief of Staff was acting on his own behalf or on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132249	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132252	Of course, there is dialogue between different ministries in a government. There have been ministries in all governments, and there will be when there is a bourgeois government. Of course there is dialogue, of course there is communication, and of course you can make agreements with each other, and we will also do so in the future. There's nothing revealing in it. We are fully committed to that. I would just like to express my sincere thanks for the opening words, because there has been a very, very sharp political debate which has cast doubt on many Danes as to whether we were united in this situation. And it is so clear today that it is a sign of support for the Danish corona effort, to stand behind the authorities as clearly as we see today, and also to emphasise the seriousness of what we are hearing here from the leader of the Left, is really, really good. Because, of course, there must be room for both critical questions and political disagreements, but I have no doubt that the vast majority of Danes would like to have a Parliament working together that solves this task and that does not care so much about itself right now, but cares about public health and getting Denmark through the crisis. So thank you very much for the words, and also thank you for taking part in the responsibility to stress the seriousness, because unfortunately that is what we are seeing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132416	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132417	No reason to do so, because we have done so all the time, and we will continue to do so. We take it I know that some, including the Prime Minister, have raised doubts about it. There's no reason for that. When I ask about the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, I am not surprised that there is coordination between ministries. I think that is wise, and I think that is reassuring, and this has recently proved to be a little surprising too. But I have to ask whether it is normal practice for the Chief of Staff in the Prime Minister's Office to tell the trade union ministers in full detail what to say, what to think. Is it the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister's Office who, under the PM's instructions, tells the individual ministers what they must say, what they may think of anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132510	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132512	No, it is the individual minister who is responsible both for his actions, I was going to say, and his statements. That's the way it is in this government, that's the way it is in every government. Of course there is communication across ministries. Anything else would be weird. To return to the second discussion: I have raised no doubts about anyone. I think it is important that we cooperate. I would like to have all the parties behind the corona effort, both the health sector, aid packages and all the work we are doing here. It has been some very, very hard weeks when there are also violent words that have flown through the air, and now I also sense that there is one I do not know how wide it is, at least broad will that we stand together to get Denmark through this crisis. And I really like the reference back to March, because with as many infected people as we have today, and what we have seen in recent days, we risk the epidemic coming out of control if we do not bring the infection down now. So thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132622	Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132623	These are the two parallel dialogues that we are running here, and that is actually fine. But then, Prime Minister, there is no lack of support from the Folketing at any time. There has been a massive lack of government involvement, and we have regretted that in here, and when we do, it is a criticism of the government. It is not a criticism of the authorities, it is not a demise or a downgrade of public health, but it is a sincere concern because we who are sitting in here are quite democratically reminded. So it is simply to stress that there is no contradiction between public health and public government, and I know that that is where the Prime Minister will put his answer, but that is not what I am going to ask. What I would like to ask is in relation to a new article in B.T., where you can read that the statement made by the Ministry of the Environment and Food for the Danish Parliament lacks some information along the way. For example, it is missing. information that the then Minister for Food took part in a meeting on 6 November on the lack of a legal basis. It then raises the question whether we can then rely on the rest of what is stated in the statement. I don't think we can, and now I mentioned the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff before. So I just want to know if the Prime Minister can guarantee that the Prime Minister's Office has not in any way been able to adjust this statement, as is being done to adjust what the ministers have to say on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132747	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132749	Well, I don't understand the need for suspicion. I think it is a good thing that we have got in place here, that this does not apply with regard to the authorities, and I would really like to thank you for that too. For one thing, the political discussion and there must be room for it, but we see in Denmark now, what we have not experienced in the past, the suspicion of authorities, and that is not something we are familiar with in Denmark. On the contrary, we have always respected the authorities and officials across changing governments and across changing political majorities. So it's good to get it in place, too. I can just say, as far as the statement is concerned, that I received it very, very late, just before publication.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132834	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Then we move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132841	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Prime Minister specifically about what B.T. Uncovering. It appears from B.T. that the Ministry of Food has been in the process of formulating how to respond to the critical questions that were, on behalf of the then Minister for Food, and this is shown by B.T.'s disclosure or, at least, the disclosure of e-mails, that the Press Manager in the Ministry of Food has consulted the Danish Food Minister's spin doctor, who is then in dialogue with the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, and that it is the Chief of Staff who formulates what can be given go on what can be answered, in relation to the food minister's subsequent explanation to the public. Is it a proper course, as described in B.T.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132939	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208132941	I can only repeat what I have already said: of course there is communication across ministries, everything else would be strange. It is the responsibility of each minister, what they say and what they do, in Denmark; it follows from the current rules that we have. A statement has been made about this process, and the Danish Parliament is still considering what study should be. In addition, I have no further comments to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133005	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133007	Well, that's a little amazing. Because I'm not asking what's normal, I'm asking how it's going on between special advisors. It is well known to the Prime Minister that we have had a major discussion about the position of the special advisers in relation to the officials. We had it before corona. So this isn't just a corona-related discussion, but it's a discussion about how something like that happens. After all, the Prime Minister has also said that the Chief of Staff has no powers of instruction with regard to other special advisers. We'll get that in a parliamentary reply last autumn in this Parliament. So how is it possible that the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff will give a go or a non-go on a particular formulation of what the then Minister of Food is going to do to the public in a case where there is doubt whether the government has handled matters within the framework of the law? And can't the Prime Minister explain whether the course described in B.T. is correct? It must be relatively simple, and I assume that the Prime Minister has made himself aware of it, if not at that time, then at least afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133104	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133106	No, I can clearly deny that I have read B.T.'s articles, not even in this case. I just haven't. But I can say that a statement has been made about this, and if you want to ask questions to the Ministry of Food, you have to make it to the Ministry of Food. Then I simply have to say that the suspicion is incomprehensible to me, and of course there is dialogue across ministries, including special advisers. Of course there is. There will be in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133132	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133134	But the Prime Minister has made it clear earlier in this discussion that the Chief of Staff in the Prime Minister's Office acts on behalf of the Prime Minister, and that is why the Prime Minister has told the Danish Parliament that there is no loss of control for the Danish Parliament, because the Prime Minister is responsible for what the Chief of Staff is doing. So when I ask what the Chief of Staff is doing to the Minister for Food or the Ministry of Food in this matter, and the Prime Minister cannot say anything about it, then it must be the Chief of Staff acting on his own. I have also understood that, as I say, the Prime Minister has explained in the Danish Parliament on an earlier occasion that there is no instruction from the Chief of Staff to special advisers in other ministries. How, then, can it occur that emails from the Chief of Staff to the Special Adviser of the Minister of Food have now been uncovered, with instructions on how to deal with the public? That is what is meant by an instruction, that is to say, an instructional power. So there's a few words here where there's kind of something wrong. So, can't the Prime Minister see that you have to move out with an explanation that's better than saying: No comment? It's not gonna last anymore. We need to know what happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133243	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133244	I am not saying: no comment. I have explained what I want to say on this matter. I am not changing the explanation that I am asked three times about the same question. Of course, there is dialogue across ministries. That does not change the fact that it is the individual minister who is responsible. This is the way the legislation is in Denmark. Therefore, when the Folketing wants to exercise control, the Folketing must exercise control, what you do in this matter, in relation to the individual minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133310	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133318	Thank you. 2020 has been a crazy year, and I actually understand if a lot of Danes are sick and tired of corona and also a little of 2020. We have lost that many have said goodbye to livelihoods and indeed to life's work and refrain from many of the things that bring us life and happiness. But there are several things I would like to say thank you for, because I do not think thank you is a word we use so often. The Prime Minister just used it, and thank you for that. We could do more than that. So first of all, thank you to everyone in Denmark, because without the common sense of the Danes we would not have done so well through corona. Now the infection rates are rising again, and we have to bite our teeth back together, as is also being said, and I know we can. But also thanks to the Prime Minister for handling it in a way that Denmark can do better than so many others. Secondly, I would also like to thank the opposition leader, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The Prime Minister said, on the eve of the Corona crisis, that the government and authorities would make mistakes, and the President of the Left, I think, has insisted very strongly that we should have the biggest mistake, the minkskandalen, investigated to the bottom, so thank you for that persistence. But my third and greatest thanks must go to both red and blue. Thank you for actually showing by 2020 that we can work together widely • that it can be used to find real solutions to some real problems. I think we have made a number of agreements lately, and hopefully we will make more. But it also requires that we get Denmark on track. This requires that we take care of the economy and that we ensure security for jobs. Here it is crucial that there are enough people, and so I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm that the 11 000 who will be missing as a labour force due to early retirement will be found next year, even if it turns out that they cannot all be found through so-called second generation reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133539	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133541	Thank you, too, both for the question and for the comment. I agree with the basic analysis: it has been a difficult year and we are getting tired of this situation. Now there are a lot of people out in the real world who are going to make things work today in a new reality. In schools, children must be taught remotely, restaurants must shut down, and the theatres cannot be allowed to carry out their Christmas performances. In other words, outside this house, the Danes are insanely busy dealing with the Corona crisis and getting things in place, and it is good that we have to thank each other, and it is also good that we are now getting some positive energy into the discussions, because how else are we going to make it through a winter? I basically agree with that. In relation to employment, there are two things I would like to say. First of all, there is much to suggest that we will get through 2020 and the management of corona better than we had ever dared to hope for, simply because, by the way, together, we have pursued a wise crisis policy and held our hands under both employees, self-employed people and companies in this difficult situation. So far, so good. Then it is quite right that, because we are now finally having a dignified withdrawal to the worn-out and, by the way, to some other things, we are going to pull some people out of the workforce, and that must then be offset by some other decisions. We have always believed this from the government, and of course we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133707	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133710	Does the Prime Minister then see the possibility that broad agreements could be made in this area to find the 11 000, and indeed more, in permanent employment, so that we also create security for a responsible economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133724	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133726	Yes, indeed. Our starting point is always that we want broad agreements. It's not always possible. We've just done it in connection with the conversion of the car park. We did not manage to reach a broad agreement, but fortunately we managed, for example, with the North Sea. So I definitely think we should pursue it. We look in different directions. We would really like to have many more women with non-Western background in work in Denmark. I think we have economic challenges there, but we simply also have social, human challenges, because too many people are outside the labour market and thus do not contribute to Danish society in the labour market. We are looking at what is called second-generation reforms, which are such a very political concept, but which are concerned, for example, with: to reduce sickness absenteeism, to ensure that there are some who can go from part-time to full-time, and to arrange, among other things, for: our public labour market in a wiser way. We also need to move forward with the next stage of green tax reform, which we would like to use to ensure that more people get to work. So we look to several different places, and of course we should have a common goal in the Folketing that as many Danes as possible get up every morning and have a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133836	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133838	Thank you for that confirmation. Finally, on the basis of the recognition of the need to get to the bottom of the mink case, I would like to know whether the Prime Minister can agree to the need for us to have a thorough study, which is parliamentaryally anchored, so that the Folketing will have a little better hand in dealing with the government in office at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133902	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133904	I would like to say that I myself missed a little with my eyes yesterday morning when the news went out that there might still be a legal basis for the resolution in November, and when a number of professors stood behind it. New aspects are constantly being added to this discussion, I promise. We have said from the outset that we support an independent investigation on top of the statements made by the government itself, and are constantly discussing how it should be arranged so precisely. This is a little different from so many other events because, unlike others, this government acknowledges that it is we who have made a mistake. We haven't been hiding that at any time. But yes to continued cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133945	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208133952	How good it is when politicians can apologize first to the godhavn boys and now to the experimental children in Greenland. So thank you for that to the Prime Minister. I would like to begin by thanking the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for making a fantastic financial law which shows a new direction for Denmark, a green direction and a fair direction which shows that we can actually resolve the crisis in a different way than if it had been the blues who had been in power. And because there is indeed a difference between red and blue crisis policy, I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will help to do something for some of the children who have the most difficulty. As you know, the truth has to be heard from the children, and yesterday we heard the truth from Emilia, who asked a question at the press conference on the Children's newspaper. The Corona crisis is affecting the children who are already having a hard time. These are the children who have been sent home to an alcoholic or violent parent, and think of the burdens they must bear on their little shoulders, and now we ask them to bear even more. It is something that can affect them far into adulthood. The Prime Minister replied that the restrictions are necessary, and I fully agree with that, there should be no doubt about that, and it is about health. But we have to ask ourselves whether we have a good enough answer for Emilia. If you visit the Facebook Group Next Helpers, you will at least be in doubt. A mother tells me she has 2 kroner. back in the account for the rest of the month. She needs help if Christmas is to be held. Another mother has lost her job, and now she has to spend Christmas without giving a gift to her 3-year-old daughter 3 years and a Christmas without gifts. A third mother applies for diapers, preserved foods and fruit and vegetables for her two children 1 and 4 years old. She has received too much cash aid earlier this year without being aware of it, and now it is being set off. And I could go on. So my question to the Prime Minister is: if we are now to negotiate aid packages in connection with another decommissioning, will the Prime Minister help us to look at a package of aid for these very special children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134208	I want to be honest and say that what I myself think is hardest right now is also in relation to the new closure of the 38 municipalities • is our old, who are alone, it is the mentally vulnerable who are isolated, and it is the children who can now look forward to many weeks at home. There are many children who can find a way to thrive with it. I know it's hard for homeschooling. We've done this before, and we're gonna deal with that in a lot of places. But where there is too much drinking, where there is violence in the home and where there is a lack of care, it can be a really, really hard month of December. And I couldn't dream of denying that we can do something extra for those kids. Then, of course, there is the financial aid for Christmas, and we have that discussion every year. Fortunately, a number of organisations are helping. I am not sure that this is necessarily the biggest problem, because if there is violence and you can't leave home and don't have the lifeline to go to school that you used to have, it can be at least as serious a problem. So there's a talk about: How do we make sure that now I say it a little direct? that there are enough seats in the women's crisis centers over Christmas and New Year? Are there enough people at work on the Children's Phone? This means that these are the places where we know that the most vulnerable can reach for help over a difficult Christmas and New Year. We'd love to be a part of looking into whether or not we have a handle on this before we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134348	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134351	That is really the problem: to look into the shelters, to look in relation to the Children's Phone. But it is also really a question of asking: is there enough help for those children who really do not want to be at home with Mom and Dad for an extended Christmas? The author Geeti Amiri, who is a teacher in Copenhagen's Western Region, has used his facebook profile to shout on behalf of these children. She writes: This is not a return from school and club home for Christmas enjoyment, but perhaps more of a Christmas curse. That is what we really need to have in the back of our minds and the problem that Emilia raised at the press conference. It is really: what do we do then? for some of the children at risk may come to day care, but some of those who are still crying out that they are going despite being given the opportunity to go to school are still not allowed. And I wonder whether perhaps a special appeal from the Prime Minister to the municipalities of the country could help with what was otherwise said very clearly at the press conference: that they should ensure that the exposed children are given the opportunity to go to school, which could be the free space that allows you to make it through Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134454	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134455	Well, I think that is quite relevant, and one can say that some of what we have learned from the spring is that there has to be a proper offer for those who are most at risk. I also know primary school teachers who call the most vulnerable in the class every day and did it in the spring to hear how it went and offered to go for a walk during the day. And I think that we need to gather all good forces, that is, both in civil society, in voluntary Denmark, in neighbors who are watching, in the family, in resource people who can step in, but also that there may be some offers in public. So shouldn't we agree with each other that we pass this on to the Minister for Social Affairs and ask that we get a proper look into this before it takes too long?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134543	Pia Olesen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134544	I think that is a good thing. I think that's an excellent idea. In fact, we need to unleash our minds, because it does not have to be the state or the municipalities, it may also be civil society, it may be all sorts of people who solve this problem. And there I have to say that there is another group that worries me during this crisis, and that is, in fact, the elderly. Because we have been able to see in relation to our elderly, both those who are in nursing homes, but also those who are at home, that they become very isolated. It is not because we should not take care of them; we should also ensure that they do not get external infection, but at the same time we must ensure that they can also see family members, and just as we have succeeded in the Christmas Eve with the homeless and with people at settlements, we must also look into the elderly, so that they get the one visit, perhaps two visits, by setting up alternative opportunities at our older institutions; in the Netherlands they made it with the tents, it is not so easy now in the cold, but we also need to think about some creative solutions so that our older people do not end up with a lonely Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134647	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134649	In other words, based on the recommendations of the health authorities, it is possible to visit our elderly at the care centres, and it has also been relaxed along the way, in relation to how we started. In addition, there are opportunities to keep joint eating, of course in respect of the Corona rules, even on Christmas Eve. This is one of the most difficult balancing paths we go at all, because we, all of us who are in this room, know very well that if we relax too much on the rules of our elderly in the care centres, we risk the infection running out of control, and that is exactly where some of the most vulnerable are. We have seen it in other countries that once the corona enters a care center I am sorry to say it kills it, and we now also have here in the capital a care center where there is too much infection among both residents and employees. So we have to protect our elderly, we have to, but of course there must also be room for us to have the Christmas that we can now have within the guidelines that exist. It is a difficult balancing exercise with this one, and I would appeal to us to lean on the authorities there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134755	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208134802	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to start by thanking all the parties with which we have made a lot of agreements in the last few days, and for a financial law that we can be very proud of, because, firstly, it shows that, in fact, over a number of years we can also build on our welfare and make it better without cutting back, but secondly, we can also show that we can deal with an economic crisis that comes along with corona in a way that does not mean that people are hitting unemployment or cutting down on the social safety net. And it is in itself a break in Danish economic crisis policy, of which there is good reason to be proud. That's what we all, I think, went to the polls on, and now we deliver on it. I would also like to express my support for the way in which the Corona crisis is being dealt with now in connection with the development of infection. I think it is very important that this support comes all around. I would also have liked to thank Mr Seligman. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his report. And I think there's some trust that needs to be restored out there. But I would also like to turn to something that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen asked about just now and which is about the supply of labour. I think it is important that we should take note of the fact that there is a great difference between the supply of labour, which means that a person is available for a job and then actually employment, that is to say that that person also has a job. The two things are not necessarily the same. A lot of people can be available without there being jobs for them. The supply of labour can then be increased in different ways if you want it to be mentioned by the Prime Minister's second-generation reforms, and that is one way to do it. But when the Prime Minister then also mentions green tax reform, I think it is just necessary to mark what is also in our understanding paper. Because it says that the government wants to combat inequality and, as far as I know, it is not because we have come really, really far in relation to actually reduced inequality, and then it says that the government has undertaken not to increase the economic divisions, not to ease the tax at the top and not to reduce the social security net, that is to say, to increase the economic divide.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135025	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135027	Indeed, it is a very good paper of understanding that we had made a year and a half ago, and that goes well, when we consider that we also deal with a global pandemic together from here, quite well in fulfilling everything we want in the understanding paper. And I agree with the words that are. We have no wish that inequality in Denmark should actually increase on the contrary. And when it comes to employment, which is of course one of the most important at all for the economic policy we are pursuing in Denmark, is one of the reasons why we have the muscles and the capacity to get through this crisis, that we have a very, very high employment in Denmark, and because we have also made sure that we have some reforms to make sure that there are the people who have to be available, one can say, for our labour market, and then with the other hand a policy that makes there actually a real job for them. Because it is true that, in isolation, the supply of work cannot be sufficient in itself unless there is a job that can be actually carried out. So all things are connected. But we are behind the understanding paper there is. Then I am pleased with the words that what we are showing in this time is that there are different ways of dealing with an economic crisis. And I am constantly surprised when I find out, for example, that the Left wants to remove Arnes' ability to get on a previous pension and spend the money on some other things • given tax breaks. For there was also a time when the Left was concerned with ordinary employees. So I just want to say that, overall, right now, we're showing that you can handle crises in many ways, and this way is just better.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135207	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135209	I agree with that, but I would just like to point out that the Prime Minister does not just have a desire to increase inequality, but has signed a paper stating that it will also be combated and reduced. You'll have to hold on to that when you start talking about the 11,000 people in the labour market, even in a crisis where so many people are missing a job. What I really would also like to ask is another subject which is very important for some 11 000 people who are facing the prospect of being forced out of their homes. In the vulnerable residential areas, some families are being told to move right now. There are children who have to say goodbye to their classmates and their friends in kindergarten. In fact, there are 20 residents in the Mjølner Park in a senior-boy community, Denmark's oldest great-dekolle, who have been told that they can no longer live there because they have to move out. If you look at e.g. Solbakken in Odense, it happens that 386 people have to be forced out of their homes because, according to statistics, there is one too many with a judgment and four too many with only a basic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135322	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135324	We have a very, very good cooperation with Enhedslisten on many things, but not in this area, and here there is a declared political disagreement. In my view, it is not quite okay to present the exposed residential areas with words like great-grandkolle. I might as well tell the story of vulnerable residential areas where there is too much crime, where there is massive social control of women, where there is radicalisation and political Islamisation, where terror is incited, where there are far too few people going to work and where we see parallel societies that undermine our democracy. That's what I see in many places not everywhere, at all. However, these are large vulnerable residential areas where there are massive integration problems and where there is close social control of each other. In my view, we must have done something about this because what is devastating for Denmark is devastating for a society that is connected and, incidentally, for many children's opportunities to grow up with equal opportunities. We have done so many things in Denmark, and not much of it has worked. That is why I fully support the agreement we have in the area of parallel societies. We're gonna have to get this broken up, so the Danes again start living together more.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135434	Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135436	There is simply something I do not understand. I recognise that there are problems in very many areas, but would the Prime Minister not be kind enough to deal specifically with the consequences of an extremely rigid ghetto list? For an area like Solbakken with four too many, with only one basic education, and one too much with a penalty now means that they have to tear down a lot of homes and that almost 400 families have to move out. The worst thing about that is that if it were calculated in relation to the current residents, they would have gone off the ghetto list and they would have gone under those criteria because the residential area along with many others is improving. Moreover, they are not characterised by stabbing or anything else, and the Social Democratic Mayor of Odense is almost begging and asking us in here to stop it. Because it's not one of those parallel communities that the Prime Minister is talking about. Could we not deal specifically with the consequences of this very rigid list? So it is not just the image that the Prime Minister is talking about. It also hits the great school, and it also hits Solbakken, who should actually have already been taken off the ghetto list according to the current figures today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135548	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135549	Yes, of course I would like to deal with it in concrete terms. I know that there are some specific people who are getting into a mess. It just doesn't change what the general picture is. The general picture is that when I grew up in Aalborg as a child in the 1980s, we had more coherent residential areas. We didn't have ethnically divided schools. We lived and lived together in a completely different way from what is the case today. Now we are starting to have ethnically divided secondary schools, ethnically divided primary schools, and ethnically divided day care institutions and residential areas. In my view, it is subversive for the Denmark I believe in and where one lives and lives side by side, regardless of what one earns and where one comes from. If we are to break the trend, which has a large number of repercussions of a repressive nature, especially towards women, but also towards ordinary people with an immigrant background who want Denmark and who do not want to be pushed towards anti-democratic and radicalised, we need to do something about it here. No one has ever succeeded in this before. That is why I believe that we need to support the agreement on parallel societies, because in my view this is the only way to deal seriously with the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135657	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135703	Thank you. I find it difficult to imagine a job in Denmark that is more demanding at the moment than what the Prime Minister has here in a corona crisis. The decisions to be taken are violent, intrusive and extremely serious. You've made choices that have been difficult. The vast majority have been right, I acknowledge and sign for that. I also have the greatest understanding that mistakes are being made. Under that pressure, we could probably all have made wrong decisions, and we do, because we are human beings. But for now there is one but when the Prime Minister has been criticized in recent weeks, it is not about the corona crisis. As far as the Corona crisis is concerned, we all agree. We want no matter what the corona is wiped out. Criticism is about a red line that you do not violate, that is, no matter what you do not break the law. More importantly, if you know mistakes, you get forgiveness most often. Where it is put to the test is, of course, if you hide your mistakes. In other words, the government itself presented a statement to show the public how it could happen that the biggest decision in recent Danish history was illegal. Here the whole responsibility was placed with the Minister of Food. Now B.T. so presented secret documents that show that your own statement, to put it nicely, is certainly not adequate, that it was the Prime Minister's own Chief of Staff who led the Minister of Food into the scandal and that the Prime Minister's own government has deliberately omitted key information from the statement. Prime Minister, if it is now documented that the government first broke the law and then tried to hide what had been going on all the way through, how is it that one should be able to trust the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135858	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208135859	I have already answered the question of who is responsible. That is the minister in question. That's the way it is in this government. That's the way it was in that government, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen himself was a member of, and so it will be in a future bourgeois government, unless one fundamentally changes the Danish popular rule. Then I would like to answer one thing in what is being said: whether you can separate the mink issue and the corona management. I think the answer is a resounding no. Finally, let us take that discussion, because I can still see that there are parties in this Parliament who do not agree that the minks should be killed and who hold onto either the social media, the choice of words used, or directly in this Chamber, that we could continue to have mink production. How can this be done when there is a risk assessment of the nature of the health authorities that do? So you can't separate the two things. The minkreservoir that was in Denmark at the time would, with the risk assessment we all know from the Statens Serum Institut, be potentially subversive to Danish public health. We know that mistakes have been made in this matter. This has to be said in due course. But you can't separate mink and corona. After all, some people have not yet spoken here, and I would say that I still think it is relevant for the Danes to know who really supports this. Because I sense that there are still parties who believe that they mink should not have been killed at least not all of them. We cannot at the same time claim that we agree on the corona effort in Denmark, because the two things are thus inextricably linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140030	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140031	A little more than a year ago, on 27 September 2019, DR made an article about the role of the former Chief of Staff in, among others. The "E" and "K" Committee. There was a great deal of debate on this, and we all remember that. After all, the Prime Minister said: "The Parliament has the opportunity to check the Minister for a given area and to hold the Minister responsible for the decision taken by the Economic Affairs Committee or the Coordination Committee. But Martin Rossen cannot be held accountable because Mette Frederiksen says that she is ultimately responsible for Martin Rossen. I just want to know whether it is also the current Chief of Staff who sits at the top of the table, and thus, when the Chief of Staff does what he does, tells a minister exactly how to make an opinion or a press release then it comes from the Prime Minister. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140134	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140135	Before I answer that question, I just need to understand if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen today pretends that there has been no contact between the Ministers of the Conservative People's Party, the special advisers concerned and the former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the former Prime Minister's special advisers? In that case, I would really like to point my ears out, because I can only imagine that exactly the same applies in this government as in the past, namely that there is, of course, dialogue across ministries. There is nothing wrong with that, there is nothing wrong with it. By the way, I actually think that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen speaks out, namely when we discuss mink: Does the Conservative People's Party back up the idea that the minks should be killed? That question seems to me to remain extremely relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140220	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140221	There's a lot I'd like to discuss with the Prime Minister about mink and finance law and everything else. But now we're in question time with questions to the Prime Minister and not to Søren Pape Poulsen, unless the Prime Minister wants to trade jobs with me. I'd like to discuss that. But then I'm just gonna ask 'cause there's a lot of extracurricular talk, and it's serious, because this is about whether the Prime Minister has given an order via someone else. But let us leave it alone; there will be plenty of time to discuss it. So I would just like to ask: when did the Prime Minister become aware of the chief of staff's involvement in the statements of Mr Mogens Jensen then?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140257	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140257-2	It is the minister responsible who is responsible both for his signature, for his actions and for his words. It's no different in this government than it is in all sorts of others. In addition, I think, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen could be an excellent Prime Minister for Denmark. I'm not going to give up the post on a voluntary basis. Although it is question time for the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to answer the questions that are being asked, one cannot stand today and claim that one can separate the corona effort in Denmark from the mink issue. Because the only reason why those minks had to be killed was public health. There were no other reasons but to look after the Danes. Søren Pape Poulsen And there was no time for a second opinion, but we have been waiting for it ever since).
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140340	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140352	Thank you, sir. President. It might be that we should call this answer hour with the Prime Minister instead of Question Time, or maybe we should follow up with a reply hour after the Question Time. On 25 April 1989, Poul Schlüter, then Prime Minister, gave a speech here from the Parliament's platform. The speech has later gone down in history as the carpet talk. Allow me to quote the then Prime Minister: "This case has been adequately clarified and the responsibility of the government and the Minister of Justice. Nothing has been swept under the carpet. The majority of the parliament then relied on the Prime Minister's words, and the Tamil case, which it was about, was swept under the carpet. In the first place, there was no independent investigation. Now we know how it went. A year passed by, the press continued to work, and the government's attempts to close the case and hide behind the failure of the office failed. The Tamil case ended with an impeachment case and the government's resignation. The carpet speech hit the government pretty hard underneath the belt seat right where it hurts the most. And the lesson, of course, is that the truth always comes for one day. Whatever gets swept under the carpet doesn't lie down. It's gonna come out. No government, no matter how secure it feels, no matter how powerful it behaves, will be able to walk free forever. The Prime Minister knows the story. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister today in the Danish Parliament: will the Prime Minister repeat Poul Schlüter's words? Will the Prime Minister guarantee that nothing has been swept under the carpet in the minks canal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140546	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140548	I'm not gonna go into a discussion about sir. Poul Schlüter. I will not accept any comparison with the Tamil case. We have a situation around the Danish mink, and I have to understand that New Citizens still do not believe that they mink should be put to death, which amazes me deeply. After all, we have acknowledged that mistakes have been made. A statement has been made. We also support a further investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140617	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140618	Thank you for your answer. I understand that the Prime Minister will not repeat Poul Schlüter's words and guarantees here in the Folketing. Because with history in mind, it could cost a lot of money. But if the Prime Minister is not quite so sure about his case and has not put everything in his statement, would it not be a good solution to decide right now to have a commission examine this matter fully? The opposition is currently begging the Radical Left for a commission of inquiry to be set up and, unfortunately, I doubt that it will succeed. I don't have much faith in the Radical Left. I simply do not trust a feel good party that happily distributes Danish values to get electoral backing in the ghettos. And I don't believe that in this case they're going to put the people's government and the Danes in the forefront. That is why, as I see it, it is entirely up to the Social Democratic Party to put the people's regime at the forefront and its own short-term interests at the back. Will the Prime Minister, as chairman of the Social Democratic Party, allow the Minkskandalen to examine in depth with a commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140729	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140730	I think we have one interest in this Parliament that is above all else, and that is getting Denmark well through this crisis. And I hope that the half of the Danes who have been subject to further restrictions from yesterday know that there is a broad political majority supporting them in this situation and that we will do everything we can to ensure that Denmark gets through this situation, because it is not necessarily possible to hear their reality and their difficult situation fully reflected in all discussions going on in public space. When it comes to the type of study to be initiated, it is of course the Folketing that makes that decision. It is every time you raise these questions. What differs in this case from many other cases is that, unlike other governments, this government has immediately acknowledged that mistakes have been made in this matter. I have no problem at all with saying that, because it is there. But what exactly the survey should look like is a matter for the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140844	Mrs Pernille Vermund for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140846	Thank you for your answer. The Prime Minister also referred yesterday to the half of the population affected by the current restrictions. May I remind you that it is the entire population that is affected when the government breaks the law. And without sounding too prophetic, I will allow myself to predict that the Prime Minister will regret his words in the Assembly hall here. The Prime Minister is insanely capable of taking credit for the good things that have happened, but also really capable of bearing responsibility for the mistakes that are happening. The last few days have shown that the Prime Minister's Office has been deeply involved in the minkskandale. Yesterday, B.T. documented that the government's statement at best is not complete and, at worst, is directly misleading. Is the Prime Minister completely convinced that the interests of the Danes and the people are best safeguarded by leaving the dirt under the carpet?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140948	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208140950	We leave no dirt at all, either on top of a carpet or under a carpet. We're doing everything we can from morning to night to get all of Denmark through this global pandemic, and I think the best thing we can do here in the Folketing when mistakes are made is to stand by the mistakes that are made and have them unveiled. I would also like all governments to think that this is not the case. But when mistakes are made, they must be illuminated and they must be unveiled. In addition, I would appeal to, regardless of what others choose from strategy, that we cooperate with each other and we take good care of Denmark in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141028	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141035	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, who would like to start by expressing a concern about the increasing levels of infection we see in Denmark. We are relatively close to the finish line; we are close to having a vaccine. We are close to being able to say that we have managed fairly well through the Corona crisis in relation to public health, and therefore it is also essential that we keep the social gap in the coming months so that we can manage well through the Corona crisis. We all agree on public health considerations in here. Fighting an epidemic is neither blue nor red. That is something on which we must all agree, and I think we are very much in favour. So we share that concern. But we are also concerned about the rule of the people, about the Prime Minister's act, and that is why we keep asking questions about the illegal acts. This is not because we do not care about public health. We are not; in other words, we also want to take care of the health of the Danes. But we also want to take care of our people's rule, and that is why we keep asking questions about these things. And if the Prime Minister thinks that now we must move on and talk about something else soon, I would actually recommend that we run for a critical interview with some journalists and not just say: you have only two questions, and then it is on to the next. The party leaders are given three questions, and then you answer a little bypass, and then you even accuse the rest of us of talking about it. I think that is a pity, and that is why we keep asking about it. I would like to ask you something that the Prime Minister said at the press conference on 4 November. On the killing of all mink in Denmark, the Prime Minister says: "It is an extremely difficult situation. And it is therefore also a decision that we, as a government, make with a heavy heart. However, on the basis of the clear recommendation of the health authorities, it is the necessary decision to make in Denmark. The question is: which health authority has recommended that all minks be killed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141215	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141217	It is well known to the questioner that there is a very clear risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institut as a basis for this decision. I know that questions must not be sent the other way, but I cannot help asking, because I understand that the Liberal Alliance does not support the killing of the minks in Denmark, and it is not irrelevant for the Danes to know whether it is still the case that there are parties that do not support this resolution. And then I simply have to arrest when something is said that is wrong. It is not true that this government is not available to the media. I held a press conference yesterday, I will be available for the Danish media tomorrow, I will be available for the Danish media again on Thursday, and I will be available for the Danish media again on Friday. It is four times within five days when I am available to journalists who wish to ask questions. In fact, I do not believe, if a historical comparison were made, that a government could be found that has held as many press briefings and as many press meetings as are the case in the year 2020. So that is simply not correct. And yes, journalists have to ask critical questions, and to the extent that one considers it relevant, the Folketing must ask all the critical questions one would like to ask, but, after all, it is best for us to deal with what is real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141335	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141337	Well, let's do it. The reality is that the Statens Serum Institut comes up with a risk assessment where they say: If you do nothing about mink breeding in Denmark, it is a challenge to public health. That is why all the parties in the Folketing agree that something must be done in relation to mink breeding, since it is found that there is a risk to public health, and doing something goes from killing the sick herds to taking the most far-reaching of all decisions, namely that all the mink must be destroyed; that the healthy breeding animals must not survive. That's what the Prime Minister claims to be a recommendation from the State Serum Institute. However, the State's Serum Institute writes in a hearing reply a few days ago: to this it should be noted that it is not SSI that has proposed the killing of mink, which may be the view of the current structure of the section. I'm sorry, I just felt bad. I feel a little bad. So the SSI writes directly in their hearing answer that it is not they who have recommended the killing of all mink • yet the Prime Minister claims that the Prime Minister has received that recommendation from the Statens Serum Institut. But that's not true. I regret that it was a rather messy wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141449	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141450	My colleague should not regret that at all. You get a little water from all sides (Alex Vanopslagh Thank you). I shall confine myself to repeating what I said earlier: the risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institut is very clear. In addition, both the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute have subsequently supported the need to put the mines to death.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141516	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141517	Thank you for that and also thank you for understanding for the sudden discomfort. I am in favour of a clear risk assessment of the fact that there are some challenges involved in not doing anything. However, taking the most far-reaching decision at all, namely that all mink should be killed and then claiming that the health authorities recommend it, seems to me to distort what the authorities have said. And the Statens Serum Institut has written directly several times that they have not recommended killing all mink in Denmark. Will the Prime Minister not accept that it is to misinform the Folketing to claim that it is a recommendation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141559	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141601	No. It certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141607	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141621	Thank you. I have one question about corona or perhaps rather about the epidemic law. As I understand it, the drafting of the Code of Epidemics has been sent back to the start, if you can put it that way, but it has to be completed by March, so you are in a hurry to make it if there is also time for hearings, legal proceedings and so on. Can the Prime Minister reveal what is happening with the epidemic law now, i.e. whether it is up to the Minister of Health to be able to take decisions on coercive measures and restrictions, or whether it will be the health authorities who will be the last responsible body, so that it is not always the government that has a mandate to make these drastic changes in our society? And if it is a political question, then it should not be the Folketing that has to make decisions on, for example. coercive measures and restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141712	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141714	First of all, there are now negotiations on the epidemic law, and that is with the Minister for Health and, of course, we want a broad agreement with as many of the parties of the Folketing as possible. I would also like to say in general terms that the Danish corona effort is based on the advice and recommendations we receive from the authorities, but in my view it can never be anything other than politicians who make the most far-reaching decisions in connection with an epidemic control. We must lean on it, we must be consulted and we must listen to the experts and authorities we have, but the decision to shut down a society, for example, must be democratically anchored by the elected representatives, not by the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141800	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141802	Thank you. My next question has nothing to do with corona. It's something else entirely. It's a question from the youth of the Alternative, and it's about fireworks. Now there are probably many who think that all young people are crazy about fireworks and that they are all looking forward to coming out and firing rockets, but there are also many young people who think a little about the consequences of what they do, perhaps sometimes more than some of us adults do. At any rate, the youth of the alternative are concerned about the consequences of our massive use of fireworks, both because it is harmful to the environment, leaving heavy metals and other chemicals both on the ground and in the water, because it causes so much suffering among animals and because so many are damaged by fireworks. What is the Prime Minister's position on this? Should we consider limiting or possibly banning the firing of fireworks in Denmark in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141846	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141848	I have to admit, I haven't been thinking a lot lately about fireworks. After all, the firework rules in Denmark have been tightened up, so you can no longer fire all the fireworks, you want to do that in the old days, and then things got out of hand. I am probably concerned first of all with the fact that we are getting it regulated where it is being used for something that is quite wrong, namely when it is fired off against either ordinary passers-by people or against fire brigade and against the police, moreover, often in some of the vulnerable residential areas or where there are otherwise some serious problems. We have seen it as part of an insecurity-building behaviour and there I think there is a need to look at whether we can do even more. But I must be honest and say that this is not something I have just thought about recently, but I will do so after this Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141940	Torsten Gejl, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208141941	Well, it can easily be very topical, because we are approaching New Year's Eve. The latter is a question from one of our Members. In the alternative, we are pleased to be part of the new law on minimum standards. However, we do not think that we have been entirely in line with institutional standards. In Denmark, we have a daily offer law that describes with its content exactly what the purpose of the offer is and what the children are entitled to in the time they are there. The law on minimum standards will apply in 2024, but what about all those children who do not benefit from the increased standards in the years up to? There are kindergartens where you as a manager have to plan alone time, so a teacher must be left alone at the moment with a group of children, for example. Twenty children. Our Member asks: Does the Prime Minister think that the norms that are part of the conditions currently apply? for both educators and children, comply with the day-off law, and what will the Prime Minister do to ensure that the day-off law is respected until we reach the real institution-based minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208142032	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208142034	So there is a good reason why we have reached an agreement on minimum standards, and that is because we agree that what is real in many Danish daily offers today is not good enough and that adult contact is lacking. And adult contact is the most important thing when it comes to the quality of our little children's lives and the part of growing up that takes place in day care institutions, and that can be quite a lot of the awake hours. So when we choose to make an agreement and now move it forward on minimum standards, it is because we are not satisfied with what things are like today. Having said that, everyday life in many day institutions works very well, and now we are giving the opportunity for it to be even better. Moreover, we have a common problem with the fact that recruiting staff will not necessarily be so easy. So we need some energy on that too. Anyway, now we've made a good deal, and now we have to make it work, I hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208142125	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and also thanks to the Prime Minister. And this is the end of Question Time. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume at 1 p.m. 14.35 where we start with votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208143501	The sitting is resumed and there are only a few messages. Member of the Folketing Orla Østerby has announced on 4 December 2020 that he wishes to withdraw from the Parliamentary Group of the Conservative People's Party. Orla Østerby is then outside the groups. Today there are the following reviews: Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national strategy to combat traffic noise) and motion for a resolution No. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national bicycle strategy). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201208143555	The debate is closed and we are therefore going to vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. Before starting the vote, I would ask each Member to see if his correct name has been checked in on the voting panel. If that is the case, we can start the vote. There are therefore two proposals for adoption. We are just being checked in while I tell you about the two proposals for adoption. There may be a need for some assistance. Is there anyone else in need of some assistance? That does not seem to be the case. Then all voting panels are ready to vote. There are two proposals for adoption, and first we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. V 30 of Astrid Carøe (SF), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Samira Nawa (RV) and Pernille Skipper (EL), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 51 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 30 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 31 by Anne Honoré Østergaard (V), Liselott Blixt (DF) and Birgitte Bergman (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208143922	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 27 by Jens Joel (S), Lotte Rod (RV), Ina Strejer-Schmidt (SF) and Eva Flyvholm (EL). And a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. in favour of 49 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 27 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 26 of Mette Thiesen (NB) lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: V 28 of Stén Knuth (V), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. In addition, proposals for adoption are No. V 29 of Marie Krarup (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144111	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144132	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144148	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144207	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144225	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144250	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144307	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144325	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144342	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Then I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144358	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144420	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144436	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144457	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144527	Before I give the floor, I would like to say that amendments have been tabled and that the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 1-4 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? That is not the case. Then the amendments have lapsed. In addition, does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Before I give Mr. Simpson... I would like to say, Mr Bonnesen, that the assessment will be that there will probably be a longer debate. That is why we can turn off the vote A. And if you leave your seat during the debate, I would ask you to take note of where it is that you are logged in so that, when we resume the votes, you come in and sit in the same seat as you are now and, of course, just making sure that you sit by your name, which is on the voting panel. If anyone wishes to leave the Chamber, we will just let those Members leave the Chamber before I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. It seems that there is a great deal of interest in this debate, so I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208144658	Thank you. The Mink case is a huge scandal. We have all been able to keep up with that. The damage has been done, the disaster has occurred, and the government has removed the mink business in Denmark, and that is the government's responsibility. The Corona continues to joke in large parts of the world with fluctuating intensity, with shifts between rising and decreasing trends. One thing we all agree on is that the most important thing is public health and that people's health and safety must always be a priority. But we also have democracy and people's rule. During the corona epidemic, the government has forgotten this several times, for example when it decided for the sole purpose that all minks in Denmark should be killed and thus closed down the whole mink business. We believe that the government should have called the parties of the Folketing and the industry for discussions and asked for a second opinion. When you make such a drastic decision, it makes sense to involve more parties. Instead, the government alone made a decision that meant a de facto shutdown of the entire industry and the industry without having the legal basis for it. The constitution is broken because there was no legal basis for giving orders, or whatever to call it in this debate, to kill all Danish minks. It is a disaster for the people who have lost their life's work. It is also a potential disaster for the environment because the excavation of mink took place without regard to the environment. In fact, it is directly stated in the draft law that general environmental rules can be overturned. It is quite incredible at a time when there is a great deal of focus on the environmental rules, of course, and where we focus on cleaning up soil pollution created by the thinking of past times about digging the pollutants into the ground. It is embarrassing for our people's rule and it is unbearable for the people who suffer, because the way in which the decision is made means something to the people who suffer. And I believe that the government's act has been disrespectful to minkkeepers. The discussion about whether the Constitution has been observed is not just a legal matter. It is important for people of flesh and blood. They have seen their life's work torn away before their eyes. And then they're told it wasn't an order, but what can they do with it? Not even a proper compensation has the government set up. Every day, year out and year in, the mink and their families have risen in the morning to care for their mink and create a unique world-class product. Now the minks are gone, the overdraft is closed, and the bills are towering. Every day they've gone to great lengths. You can't say the government has done that in this case. There has been no plan for what should happen to the killed mink. We have been able to keep up with the fact that some of them have been quickly lost on the roads, others have remained outside, and many of them have subsequently been dug down, among other things. close to a lake and close to drinking water. In the debate, a majority of the Danish Parliament has said that the minks must be re-buked and handled in a proper way. The question now is what the government will do about it. In one of the conflicting explanations given by the now former Minister for Food, it is said that it was necessary to act quickly, apparently so quickly that there was no time to involve the Folketing and to respect the democratic rules of the game. I'm surprised it wasn't new knowledge at the time. Already back in July, a number of mink farms infected with covid-19 became known, and later the cluster-5-mutation became known. The question is whether one could have prepared an emergency plan and done it in a different way. For the Left, there is no contradiction between public health and the rule of the people, but all in all, what remains is that there seems to be for the government. Instead of negotiations and dialogue with the parties of the Folketing and the industry, this government preferred dramatic press meetings with the Prime Minister at the centre. It's not a way to run a country. The government's sudden decision to kill all Danish minks has shaken the credibility of the government just think of the subsequent attempts to put smokescreen beyond who decided what, who gave orders, who did what, etc. Think, too, of the involvement of the defense and the police. That is why, of course, a Commission inquiry is needed so that we can get to the bottom of the matter and put a responsibility. It deserves those who have suffered, namely the mink farmers, the professions concerned and the parties involved, and it deserves our people's government, which has suffered from this government's frivolous dealings with things in this matter. With the bill here, the government will make a temporary ban, authorize the killing and compensation, or compensation, as it writes. But what we have heard so far from the government has not been really full compensation for mink growers and followers. The government has caused great damage and removed the entire mink business, and the government must therefore, of course, pay the bill instead of trying to run completely or partially from it. The government says in headlines outside it will pay full compensation, but why was the government so foot-timing when it came to, for example. to seek a dialogue with the European Union, in view of the fact that we could have a derogation from the state aid rules, as has been practiced on several occasions? The clear message from us in the Left is: The mink growers or the former mink growers and the associated trades concerned must of course have full and real compensation, including for their profession to be removed by the government. It has to be fair. The government has not had the law, the economy or the policy in place in this matter, and, for the sake of good order, I must of course repeat that the Left is voting against the draft law and, at the same time, we want the bill to be sent back to the committee between the second and third readings with a view to holding consultations, answering questions and considering amendments. So here at the end, at the last minute, a few hours before it is to be dealt with in the Chamber, we also find that the government is now proposing a new amendment. We have heard the announcement that the government is withdrawing some of its own amendments and then putting another about it with a tempo bonus. Well, it is surprising in itself that it comes out of thin air like this, but it looks rather messy first of all, and it seems to me, in short, that the government is not in control of its legislative proposal, in which it is already trying to legalise its actions. The tempo bonus is very important to the mink. They were urged to do things quickly, and there we have all been able to keep track of how things went, and they are now waiting for the money and must have it paid out, and now there is something that indicates that it is being paused for the time being in an uncertain, unknown future. We just have to ask: what is going on here? That is why the government is now tabling amendments, perhaps even to try to take it out of the draft law and put it in somewhere else. I guess it's gonna turn out that way. It is something of a power, and it certainly means that there is an uncertainty as to how this tempo bonus stands at all, and now it turns out that the government cannot simply implement what it has promised, because it must first have the agreements in place in relation to the European Union. It is a mess and it can be said immediately that we should, of course, vote against that amendment. But we can then turn it around sometime and see that the government is trying to correct one of its mistakes in this and that, of course, we will not stand in the way of making a mistake. So the amendment that is coming will be yellow to the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145516	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I note that there has been a proposal that the proposal should go back to committee, but that we should just continue the second reading in this Chamber. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145530	This is a big case, and there are good opportunities to be hindsight about it. I think it would have been very important to continue to slaughter the sick mink herds at the beginning of July. Now we got into something where the infection spread too much and then we came to the conclusion that more drastic action would have to be taken than perhaps what we could have limited it to. And then we stood there at the beginning of November, where there was this recommendation from the Statens Serum Institut, which says: •Conclusion: a continued mink breeding during an ongoing COVID-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including the possibility of preventing COVID-19 with vaccines. It was the reality that we are in. And now the rapporteur from the Left says that public health is important, and one writes in his report that things would have been fundamentally different. Is it not the case that the Left had come to the same conclusion, namely that all minks in Denmark should be slaughtered, with the recommendation that was from the SSI?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145634	As I pointed out very clearly, and I should like to repeat this, public health is the most important thing for people first. And then you can start playing game of thought and turn back time: if the Left had been sitting in the Prime Minister's Office, I am quite sure, as I have also indicated in my rapporteur's speech, that the parties would have been called for some discussion on it and given a second opinion on how this should be handled. As I also highlighted in my rapporteur's speech, different choices were made. It can also be seen that the government came unhelpably afterward almost immediately, because they groped blindly and not only knocked down the infected, sick mink, but also went to put down the healthy mink. We can just keep up with how to get more and more after day by day. So it went wrong from day one, and we can see, when we have it now, that there were many things that should have been done differently. But public health is the most important thing; we cannot disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145726	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145727	That is something that can be doubted by what Erling Bonnesen said in consultation and what has been said in the newspapers, and what has been said in consultation is probably the most sharp thing. Now the Left says they won't vote for the bill. If there is not a majority in favour of the bill, then the mink growers will not be able to receive any compensation. So I think it is a rather strange situation for the Left to speak up, for mink farmers to be given a great deal of compensation, but we will not vote in favour of a proposal that makes it possible to do so. If there is no majority in favour of the bill, the mink growers will not receive any compensation. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a problem in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145759	This is the responsibility of the government, and if the government really wanted to provide full and complete compensation, including for the fact that the industry has been removed, why is it not in place long ago? What we have seen is, of course, that people seem to be trying to subtract from the spreadsheets and to run from it in whole or in part, and I shall not be able to say what is behind it. But there is no proposal on the table here and now, as far as I am concerned, to live up to what is being said to provide full and complete compensation, including for the removal of the industry, and that is the problem. But it may be that Enhedslisten can help get it in place; there is still time for it. Of course, we need to get that straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145837	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145840	Thank you. The rapporteur said that mink farmers should have full and whole and a whole lot of other compensation. I would say that throughout my life I have worked for workers in Denmark when they lose their life's work, for example. when a company moves abroad, it must be paid full compensation for lost earnings until they get a new job. I understand that I have agreed with the Left on that now, and I am very happy about that. I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left will make sure that the Left is working actively to ensure that mink farmers receive at least the same coverage when they are to receive compensation as those workers who lose their jobs, that is, at least two years' daily allowance and at least 60 to 70%. of previous earnings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145925	Now we are dealing with the mink case today, and I do not want to start comparing it with other cases. I can just say, just like putting the picture in place, that when I use the expression that it must be full and complete compensation for mink growers and followers including, because they have been deprived of their profession, it must be a substitute that is neither too high nor too low. It's supposed to cover exactly the loss. That's what this is about for me. To assess other cases here now in the middle of it, I will not begin to go into.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145955	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208145956	That's exactly not another case. There are several workers who will be unemployed when the mink farms close down, as the rapporteur well knows. You will receive two years' daily allowance; approx. 60-70 per cent. of what they have earned before is the compensation they have to go out of their life's work with, i.e. their work in those companies. That is why I say: what is full and complete compensation? That's exactly the same thing as discussing the owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150024-2	No, I think that is two different things, but it must then be, we can say, an expression of the questioner's own distinction in it. On the labour market, of course, the labour market rules are adhered to, and I have explained, as far as the Mink case, which we are dealing with here, what our position is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150042	The next brief remark is from Mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150045	Thank you. The Left rapporteur says that public health comes first. That's why I just want to know why Mr. Erling Bonnesen went out on 28 October in the context of a consultation I had called for and went completely against the recommendations of the health authorities and suggested that the killings should be stopped both by sick mink and mink within 7.8 km.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150105	Well, I can reject that interpretation, too. I have also said quite clearly today, and I remember saying that earlier, that people should have been more targeted at the sick, infected mink, and then taken care of the healthy mink at that time. The situation is quite different now, and there you can just look up and see what has been said and whether it has gone out of context. We can start playing with that. But the position now is that we are standing where we are now, as I have explained in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150133	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150135	But that is simply not correct. The rapporteur was reasonably clear on the consultation we had called for in the spit that killings should be stopped. And the two of us had a debate on TV 2, where the rapporteur said directly that the killing of mink would be stopped. The truth is, the Left is clever here. In other words, there are plenty of reasons to criticise this process, there are plenty of reasons to criticise the government, but I do not want to hear the impression from the Left that public health has been taken seriously all the way through, because that has not been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150208	What the questioner wants to listen to and not listen to, I shall not interfere with, but the questioner asks, and then I answer. I can say quite clearly that at that time I also said that we should go after, for example. the sick and infected mink, and then you could have considered taking care of the healthy mink. That's when the situation was different. Now it's been running long ago, the industry's gone, so it's just a story.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150230	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150234	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if he would not join me in calling on the rapporteurs of the government's support parties to take the floor. We would very much like a debate with the government's support parties on how this matter should be investigated. We find it difficult to get the rapporteurs to speak in any other way than if they go up here on the platform and make themselves available for a debate with the Folketing. So I would like to ask whether the Left does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150301	I fully agree with that. It is a good thing that questions are being asked and we are answering, and it would also be good if you could have it both ways, you might say. So I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150310	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150316	Thank you very much for that, sir. Erling Bonnesen. After all, this matter has been dealt with very carefully in relation to the committee. Some people in this Chamber are calling for a debate and I certainly did not see it there, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that I was at least present at the committee meeting when we discussed these amendments very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150338	It is a good thing that both of us have been here. I can stand by the statements I have had all the way through, and I have also emphasised now that you start looking back, then it was appropriate then to have a debate on it if you had to stop it. That's kind of what's in it. If you had to stop the infection back then, you should have targeted the sick, infected the mink. There wasn't enough capacity, and we also saw how the government groped with it and I don't know what's up and down in it, but it's been shown by some press conferences and got some from abroad to come and help with. I am not going to speculate about that, but it has also been possible to bring in something infected with it. I don't know, and it's history now. We stand where we stand now, and it is as I have highlighted in my rapporteur's speech. But it was good that both of us were there at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150426	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150428	Then I'll just sign that we have to get this case back in committee, in relation to where we are. I would like to make it clear to the rapporteur of the Left that I also expect there to be a thorough and serious discussion, and that is where we can hope that we will all be there and have a thorough discussion of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150444	We can only agree with that. Hopefully, when we get another consultation within the next 1-2 days, it might be good, and that is some of what we intend to ask the government, namely how to get this full and whole compensation in place, and how to get this tempo bonus, which has been promised to the minkkeepers, ready for payment. It can only go too slowly. Why isn't that in place yet? That is one of the questions we would like to ask at the next consultation, so we will keep our noses on the tracks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150512	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208150527	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur of the Left made an attempt to have a better dialogue with the government and the government's support parties in order to ensure that we have a full discussion and also an examination of what is actually behind this strange decision, which has ended with the kind of decision which it unfortunately seems to have ended with now that a second opinion has just been completely neglected; it has been completely neglected that there should have been a political debate in relation to this very, very large decision, which is to ban a whole industry in Denmark. This has the consequence that it has, in any case, a huge billion printing for Danish society, and it also has significant consequences in relation to reduced trade in the coming year, and we can also see that the number of people employed goes from 6 000 to 0. It is very, very important that we clarify this matter in detail. In relation to the government's coordination committee, it was already decided on Tuesday 3 November that a decision should be taken on Wednesday 4 November to inform both the industry and also the political parties and others in Denmark that this industry should be completely banned. This also meant that the Prime Minister went out to a press conference and said that this political decision by the government was not for any political negotiation at all. That was something that had been said and it was something that had been decided in advance. We in the Danish People's Party believe this to be a very strange thing, given that Denmark does not have a tradition of making such far-reaching decisions, both in relation to the constitution and in relation to the consequences it will have for the many affected companies and the many affected mink growing families. For that is what we are talking about • we are actually talking about a type of company which is typically family-owned companies and which has produced and ensured Danish exports of goods and Danish jobs in generation after generation. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party of course also place public health at the very top of the list, but it does not mean that without evidence and factual evidence and justifications and negotiations and studies you can just decide on a Tuesday very late that on Wednesday you will go out and ban all of these 6,000 jobs on Danish soil. It is almost 1,200 Danish companies that with a stroke of pens were removed from the Danish map. And it is also something that has major consequences right in the capital, because we know that these minks are sold via Kopenhagen Fur, for example, and there you can look at the number of weeks a year when you order a lot of hotel nights in Copenhagen, and how many foreign buyers come and frequent the capital's restaurants and use taxi services and everything else. It has so great consequences, and therefore the Danish People's Party said: we are fully in favour of making decisions here, of course, in relation to having the affected mink beaten, and that public health must of course be at the top of the list, but that does not change the fact that such major decisions must and must be taken on an evidence-based basis on which one looks at involving the parliament and involving the political parties. And there we are really, really tired of, and think it is a pity, to put it bluntly, that the government has chosen to completely neglect the political part of it in order to make sure that we had examined whether it was now also the only right solution to offer, in other words to outlaw this whole industry over a night. Very soon after the Prime Minister made his statement, one could see, for example, that the EU health office in Stockholm, among others. was out to say that there was no evidence that the Danish approach to it was the only right one. There was no evidence that the entire Danish breeding population of mink had to be destroyed. Subsequently similar statements were also made by the WHO, and also by Dutch researchers, Swedish researchers, Danish researchers and all sorts of others. The second opinion that we had so kindly asked for on 4 November was a quite ordinary evidence-based second opinion, where we had things professionally examined by people who were competent to do so, also broader than only by the Statens Serum Institut · the government did not want. It wasn't up for discussion. It was something the government didn't want to be real. So no, it was not, as the Prime Minister said, for negotiation; it was not discussed. Now we stand here at the second reading of L 77, which is part of the Government's desire to legalise an illegal decision which chose to send uniformed police officers and even army people to a number of private companies. And in this way, Article 73 of the Constitution was overruled about private property and its inviolability. That is why it is not entirely beside us when we are some who want an investigation into what has actually been practiced and who had knowledge of what parts of the decision, of the order of orders, at what times. And the government has completely neglected that wish. I then chose, as a business rapporteur, to call both the Minister for Food and the Minister for Business and Industry for a consultation last week, because on top of this discussion about the violation of the constitution, we also have the situation that a great many, about one in four, of these mink growers are in an acute liquidity crisis in relation to their credit being closed and all sorts of other things. Many of them may also have had to look far in the guide to pay their bills. That is not fair, and that is why we called for a conciliation on Tuesday last week. And then you get the fantastic response from the government that the two ministers can come to a consultation on 14 January 2021. In other words, the government wants us to be in a situation where we do not know whether we have been bought or sold for six weeks. Is it a reasonable financial situation to put these 1,150-1,200 companies in? We in the Danish People's Party believe that it is absolutely not. In fact, we think it is a scandal that government ministers cannot afford an hour and a half for a consultation in the Food and Industry Committee before 14 January 2021. I would like you to take this with you in relation to the legal procedure relating to L 77. Because things are linked to the types of compensation that we have to offer to the companies concerned. One thing is that they are waiting for their compensation and their compensation, which they must of course have, but many of them have also asked for an advance payment, and the ministers have not, of course, denied that a model could be used to make advance payments in order to guarantee the companies concerned precisely the cash-flow challenge that many of them are unfortunately facing today. We have not been able to get an answer to that part of it either. So if we're going to give the government a character for this, it's a failing character, because it's chosen to completely override the rules of democracy in terms of involving the Folketing and the elected representatives. It has been decided to make a statement which, at my best estimate, at least costs 20 billion. kr., without having wanted to get the evidence-based, i.e. whether it was now the only way to handle the corona part of the mink area. There the government then thought that there was no other way to do it than to implement this very, very drastic and irreversible decision, as it is that with a stroke of pen overnight it has made it illegal to be a trained mink grower in Denmark; one has made it illegal to practice one's profession; one has forced 1,200 owners to kill their animals, their breeding animals well to mark. Against this background, of course, we need to insist that the government recognizes that this is something that needs to be done in a committee of inquiry and that it is something that must of course be fully clarified to such an extent that we can make visible when these things came to our knowledge in the government's coordination committee and when it was sent out to the various ministries involved in this process. These were the words of the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208151523	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked to speak, is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Are there any more rapporteurs besides Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who wishes to speak in this debate? That does not seem to be the case, and then I will start calling people to vote again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208151603	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the draft law on the dismantling of mink breeding due to a significant risk to public health. The Enhedslisten believes that it was a serious mistake for the government to change strategy at the beginning of July 2020 and to stop killing all minks on infected farms. The change in strategy has resulted in more mink farms being infected and the coronasmit has spread more widely to the population in parts of the country with many mink farms. In addition, the extensive decommissioning in seven municipalities in North Jutland for a period of time. 2,000 infected people with mink-related corona variations are deeply serious and have probably contributed to death. The decision to knock down all mink is right in the light of the clear and serious risk assessment by health authorities. Unfortunately, serious errors have been made in the decision-making processes. The process must therefore be reviewed by an independent inquiry and a new parliamentary investigative tool to be used if necessary to uncover the mink case. For many years the Enhedslisten has been working for a controlled dismantling of mink breeding in Denmark for animal ethical reasons. In the past, the Enhedslisten has proposed the dismantling of minkboards over five years in several motions for resolutions, and this would have been a legal settlement, and it would have been much cheaper than the speedy but health-related dismantling that is now taking place. A large number of countries in the European Union have decided to dismantle the mink. The Enhedslisten is very critical of the handling of the slaughtered mink, which among other things is: is described in section 4 of the bill, and where it is uncertain whether the slaughter and burial already carried out in two mass graves in Jutland, one of which has occurred too close to a lake, may have been carried out on an illegal basis. In any event, the excavation has been carried out before Section 4 of the bill is adopted by the Danish Parliament. The Unity List considers it unclear whether the unlawfulness of mink breeding until 31 December 2021 means that mink breeding from 2022 may be legal. This should be essential for what can be agreed on in relation to compensations for mink growers. The Enhedslisten supports that the bill should lead to a permanent winding-up of minkavl. The Enhedslisten considers it important for employees working in the mink industry and the suppliers of the profession to be helped for further training and employment in other occupations. And it is on that basis that Enhedslisten supports the bill and the amendments that have been tabled, except one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208151906	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a desire for short comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208151911	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to speak as the only representative of a supporting party in this debate, which is about perhaps the greatest democratic crisis we have had in the cooperation between Parliament and government in memory. Only Enhedslisten takes the floor... the other parties are trying to keep the case to death and will not stand and stand and answer questions. So I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: how can the Enhedslisten fail to support the fact that there is a commission of inquiry where we can get people to speak under witness responsibility and can hear the oral reports about what has happened in the government in the days when this illegal decision was taken, which has had such major consequences? We are not talking about some unimportant technicality here. Nor have 10 to 20 asylum couples been separated from each other for a few weeks. It's a huge case. Why doesn't it have to be thoroughly investigated? It is Enhedslisten who is responsible for bringing the government to account, and I would urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152019	Well, we think you should start with a lawyer's examination. Then we are quite open to the idea of new types of investigation, in other words a new parliamentary investigative tool, which several parties have been thinking about. The reason why we are critical of this matter of commissions is, of course, that we have seen that some commissions have rightly been set up, for example. The Iraq Commission, which was supposed to find out whether or not the Iraq war had started on a legal basis. Then the government changes and then a bourgeois government comes back, and then it cancels the Iraq Commission so that you cannot get to the bottom of whether it was an illegal war or not. Basically, I do not think it is appropriate if it is the case that when we weigh up the best studies and then there will be a change of government, we will not be able to complete those studies. That is why we think it is most appropriate to start by reviewing all the documents. If you read the paper today, there is doubt that it has been on a legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152119	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152120	That is certainly a thin reason for not wanting a commission of inquiry, that is to say that one is afraid that if the government changes, the commission of inquiry may be cancelled. I think I can guarantee that on behalf of the bourgeois bloc is not going to happen. So I do not know who it was that one could imagine coming to power, which would be able to cancel a commission of inquiry. In addition, we are early in the parliamentary term so far, and there are probably several years before the next parliamentary elections. So I think that Enhedslisten should consider whether that is really the argument one has. It appears to all of us who are looking at it as if Enhedslisten is trying to stall and will avoid the matter being examined to the bottom because Enhedslisten does not have the backbone to challenge the government. And frankly, I think that's pretty lax, considering how Enhedslisten usually acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152206	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152207	Enhedslisten has a lot of backbone, but we really think it's fair that you start with this lawyer's examination and, for example, that you get to know him. I would like to know whether the legal basis was actually in place, if it was the case that one read deep enough into the text, according to the article in Politiken today, where a former top official says that he believes that there was a legal basis for it to be possible to demand that mink be slaughtered in a larger area than what was going on. So I actually think it's smart enough that you start from the bottom up, and then you build upstairs. We will not deny that there can be a commission at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152245	The next brief remark is to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152248	Thank you. Now we have L 77, and there are a number of exceptions, among others. exceptions to having environmental approval when digging mink. Does Enhedslisten support that? And with regard to the legal basis, I would like to say that it is the government itself that has judged that there was no legal basis. If there are legal bases, we can simply not adopt L 77.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152315	Yes, and then it would probably have required a minister to stand up and say: we have found out that there was a legal basis for it, so we withdraw the legislative proposal that lies here for second reading. This has not happened today, so one is probably not quite sure that this is the case, and it is perhaps very wise to take that position. But it is actually such things that I think it would be very nice to find out in a lawyer's investigation whether there is any possibility of this being legal in several ways, both in terms of the legislative proposal now before us at second reading, but also in terms of whether or not there has been legislation that made it possible to go out and slaughter mink throughout Denmark. I think that is essential to clarify that. So we really think that there is reason to start by examining the written documents in a process to find out what the basis of this case is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152407	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152408	The rapporteur was not given the answer to the second question. But that does not alter the fact that the government, although they themselves considered that what they did was illegal, commanded the military and the police and held on to doing so, even after they had recognised that what they were doing was illegal. Doesn't Enhedslisten think that's very problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152429	Yes, we think it is very problematic if the police are running around calling people and saying that the citizens must do something without there being any legal basis for it. Well, we think that's deeply critical. I am quite sure that our legal rapporteur has said so in a recent consultation here. Then it's true that I didn't have time to deal with the digging. I think it is a bad solution that has been chosen. There's no doubt that there's something in this case that's gone too fast, and the excavation of mink was one of those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152500	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152504	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for his speech. It is well known, as the rapporteur also mentioned, that the Enhedslisten has been opposed to mink growing in Denmark for many years and therefore the minks wanted to be killed and perhaps also other livestock when it comes down to it. But I would like to ask one thing, because now we can see that something is being dug up • the journalists are digging up various things. We must remember that the primary task of the Folketing is basically to keep control of the government. If we can then see that new information is coming out, which has been omitted from the statement prepared by the government itself, does this not give rise to reflection in relation to the setting up of a committee of inquiry which can really get to the bottom of this matter? It is, of course, about breaches of the constitution, breaches of the environmental protection law and of the administrative law, consultation periods which have been omitted, not to mention the fact that animals have also been squeezed to death and burned animals alive and such things there. Isn't this an opportunity for us to have this fully investigated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152619	As I said before, we will not deny that one day we will come to the conclusion that a Commission study will also have to be carried out. It's just not where it starts. We think it would be reasonable to have this lawyer's investigation, which examines all the documents in the case. And we are quite open to it if the Folketing comes up with some new model with a new parliamentary investigative tool, as it has been discussed, and about which there may still be a discussion. I just feel so basic that I'd rather have an investigation that goes pretty fast. I mean, I'm not in favour of an infinitely long study where we might be told in five years' time: there was something illegal there. I would rather have circumstantial evidence of this through different types of investigation than a Commission investigation. And if it is the case that we are going to have a lawyer's investigation which really reveals that something is quite wrong here, then it is natural to proceed with a Commission investigation. I just don't think you should always take the biggest club first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152717	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152720	Thank you. I think we should get this under way as quickly as possible. For example, when you can read on the basis of some of the e-mails published today in the daily press that it is actually Martin Justesen, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, who has taken his hand in relation to the Minister for Food, then I think it is so important information that one can say that it would probably not have been possible for a lawyer's inquiry to arrive at. We should have a commission of inquiry there so that a judge can be questioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152757	Well, I guess I've said it a few times before, that I think it's best to start by doing that lawyer's examination and getting some detailed information. If we then come to the conclusion that it is such a new parliamentary investigative tool that is the next right tool, or we should proceed with a Commission study, I do not think there is any evidence to conclude yet. That is the position of Enhedslisten in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152820	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152824	Thank you. I would also like to keep up with the Commission investigation or legal investigation. If things were to go the way the Enhedslisten's rapporteur would like, namely that one should start with a lawyer's investigation, it would probably not come out with any clear conclusion either in one direction or another. It will be, as the rapporteur says, some illumination, and then it will be so and so it will hover further. I guess you can almost already conclude that it's just step one if it's going to be the way. Does the rapporteur agree that the next natural step, if it is so unresolved, is to go further and take the Commission study? And is that also what Enhedslisten's position is implied if there is no clarity with the law investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152911	As I have said a few times now, we would like to start with a lawyer's examination, and I have the impression that some people are sitting in a committee trying to find out whether a new parliamentary investigative tool could be something that lies between such a lawyer's investigation and the large Commission investigation. We are, in fact, open to that. I just haven't seen that investigative tool described in detail. I think that there is a committee working on it, and there are some parties that think that we need such a tool, so we have something between the small studies and the very large studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152945	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208152947	If you take what the rapporteur says at face value, step is one in the legal investigation and the new parliamentary tool to clarify some things, and then you have to move on to the Commission study. So does the rapporteur already agree that a lawyer's examination is not enough if it is to be the one or what is now being put together? Because it's just a lighting. We can then say that we might as well go to the Commission study immediately, because there must also be some lighting, analysis and so on. to. Then we might as well put it together and get started on that Commission study.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153025	No, I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left, because I have not been presented with the new parliamentary investigative tool and what it can do. A committee has been set up and they are working on it. I have not received the conclusion, so we cannot judge in the Enhedslisten whether it is something that will be a good intermediate solution and perhaps something that is a faster study than a Commission study. If it is not faster than a Commission study, it is not worth much.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153055	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153059	I understand that the Enhedslisten is sceptical of a commission of inquiry. This is something you use to check whether there has been a breach of law. We know it's here. It's acknowledged by the government. The fact that we are dealing here with a law which, after authorisation, is intended to legalise something that has already happened is proof of this. Then the Prime Minister has read something in the paper today, and that is interesting to her, the Prime Minister, but it does not change the fact that the government has said that things were not allowed to happen because the law was not there. So it's illegal. In that case, you go to the next tool. Once you have established that there has been an illegal act, you are going to start the impeachment case immediately. That is why my question is this: will the Enhedslisten support the fact that we are now embarking on the impeachment case, recognizing that there has been an illegality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153155	We have not discussed this in the Enhedslisten, so I have no conclusion on that. We have discussed what studies are needed and our position is as we voted on it in the Chamber. And what is stated in our report in relation to the bill is, in fact, something that is copy-pasted from the conclusion that a number of parties, together with Enhedslisten, voted in favour of. This is where we believe that there should be an independent investigation, as well as working with a new parliamentary investigative tool to be used if necessary to uncover the mink case. That is what we have been dealing with here in the Assembly and which we are happy to stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153245	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153246	When ordinary citizens break the law, they are caught by the police, the prosecution raises a case, they are convicted and they are punished. When a government breaks the law, it is the impeachment case that is established and it is established by the Folketing. It is acknowledged that the government here has broken the law, and then I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten is in favour of the equality before the law, which is that when citizens break the law, they must stand before a judge, and that when a government breaks the law, it must be in court for impeachment. Will the Enhedslist support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153321	We are in this process of thinking that we are supporting this independent investigation and that we are, in fact, positive about working with a new parliamentary investigative tool that can be used, if necessary, to uncover the mink case. So we are not where part of our conclusion is for or against an impeachment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153342	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153346	Thank you for that, President. In this case, as far as I know, this is the first time that there is a government that is actively entering and closing a profession in Denmark, a profession of mink, which is unsupported and has never been supported by the state............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There has to be a legal basis before you close a profession like that, and there wasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153433	Now Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that the mink industry has received nothing in support, but that is, the farmers who have mink typically also have some agricultural land which they receive a basic payment of approx. 2,000 kroner. per hectares per hectare I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's the first thing. To the second part around... hm! The first Vice-President will be allowed to repeat it in a second round).
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153505	I'm gonna ask you if mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen believes that it is okay to close a profession if it is contrary to the basic law, because there was no legislation in place here to close the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153516	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153516-2	Well, I get it, I get it! No, I don't think that's fair. We would have liked to have seen a majority in favour of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to dismantle mink farming in a controlled way at a far earlier stage. It would have been a legal decision, as it has been in other EU countries, and it could have been done quietly. Now we got into this corona situation that changed everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153539	Sir. Bent Bøgsted for his last brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153540	Well, it's important that we in the Folketing abide by the Constitution. Now I am one of those who was elected at the same time as the Prime Minister, and both I and the Prime Minister stood out here in the hall and signed that we would abide by the Constitution when we entered the Folketing. We were also told that if we did not comply with the Constitution, we were not worthy to sit in the Folketing. One condition for being able to sit in the Folketing is that you keep the constitution. You sign that you want to abide by the Constitution, but the compliance with it has not happened in this case. Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen saw that the Prime Minister is worthy to sit in the Folketing when the Prime Minister does not comply with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153621	So, Enhedslisten has dealt with what studies should be carried out from all of this, and it will probably also include a number of ministers, and therefore also the Prime Minister, so we are not there where we conclude that the Prime Minister has not complied with the Constitution. We are in favour of this legal investigation, and so we are very much in favour of this process of finding out whether there can be a new parliamentary investigative tool that can be used, if necessary, to uncover the mink case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153649	The next brief remark is to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153653	Thank you, President. I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the answer that the rapporteur has used several times in this second reading, namely that we do not want to support a commission of inquiry at this stage, but that we want to have such a study instead of a lawyer. And the rapporteur has used the argument that the rapporteur feels concerned about supporting such a commission of inquiry. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: why was it then that the Enhedslisten was not concerned about voting in favour of the Commission on Child Brides, which was not finally acted on an illegal basis, as it is undoubtedly the case in this case? Why is it that the Enhedslisten did not have the same concern regarding the Instructor's Commission as it has for a mink commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153756	Well, at the time, you had a completely different course. I think that in this case there is good reason to have this lawyer's examination, so that we get the full picture, and then we are quite open to whether there could be a new parliamentary investigative tool that could be more modern and more flexible in getting to the bottom of some cases, and hopefully it is a new parliamentary investigative tool that is faster than the large Commission study. That's kind of where we stand. And then you can't draw all sorts of comparisons into this. We in the Enhedslisten have looked at what kind of studies we think are the right ones to carry out at this time. We are happy to do so, and if some people think that we are answering the same kind of questions, it is because we have taken a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153848	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153850	Thank you for your answer. But does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not recognise that a commission of inquiry is the type of investigation which will give the greatest likelihood of all stones being turned over rather than a minor investigation through a judge, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153910	Well, I recognise that a Commission study is more thorough, but at the same time it is much slower, and I do not like that. I would like to go further on this matter, and there I think that such a law investigation, which turns the papers, looks at it carefully and makes a statement, is a good tool. And if it is the case that there is a majority who thinks that there should also be such a new parliamentary investigative tool that can dig a tooth deeper, then we are open to that being a conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153937	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The last rapporteur to speak at this second reading is Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208153951	It is very disappointing that I am the last rapporteur at this second reading of the minkavlivningsloven. The support parties, in addition to the Enhedslisten, have not had the backbone here to stand up and defend why they will not be involved in setting up a commission of inquiry. I think it is lax, and I think it is undemocratic that we do not have the courage to stand up for it. In any case, I think that the support parties are hiding in this matter. We are talking about a scandal of enormous proportions. We're talking about a bell-clear crime. We are talking about the fact that thousands of people have lost their livelihoods on a questionable professional basis in a hasty process which does not have a legal basis in the Folketing. It is very in principle that the Folketing stands firm that a government must abide by the law. There is no one but the Danish Parliament that can hold the government accountable, and when the Danish Parliament fails to do that, the Danish people's government and democracy are abandoned. That is insane in principle, and that is why I find it so disappointing to see some support parties behaving so lamely in this matter that we do not want to be involved in ensuring that we have a rule of law in Denmark where the government has to comply with the legislation we are laying down here in the Folketing. If we don't stand by it, who will? It is only us in the Folketing, and in practice that means the support parties who can hold the government accountable, and then you sit down and you won't even take questions, will not even stand up for a debate as to why the government is allowed to get away with this lawbreaking without drawing a consequence towards them. I do not blame the Social Democratic Party too much, because it is rare for anyone to be asked to fire themselves, but I blame the support parties for sitting here and putting their own interests in that it goes well for the bloc, over the great moral responsibility one has to uphold well for our democracy. In two days' time, this bill will be dealt with thirdly. The industry still doesn't know what compensation they get, because the government hasn't had time to negotiate with us. In the last two weeks we have heard virtually nothing from the government, and therefore there is no time to clarify what the compensation will be. Yet we have to sit and vote that we lay down a profession without even knowing what kind of a situation we are putting in this whole industry and thousands of people. Nor have we been able to analyse whether there is any professional reason at all to kill all minks, which is what this law requires if it is voted through. We know so much that there was no professional recommendation to do so. The State's Serum Institute has said in very clear language in their hearing answer here that they have not recommended that all minks should be defeated. This is something that the government has decided on the basis of a risk assessment which alone said that there was a significant public health risk by having 17 million minks in Denmark, as was the case a month ago. From there the government has made a decision that every mink, each and every one, must be put down so that not one can survive, and this is now voted through without having a discussion at all about whether there were other options: whether there was any possibility of preserving some of the animals, so that a small part of the industry could be resurrected, or whether there was an opportunity to preserve the gene strain that has been bred in Denmark for 90 years to perfection, so we have some of the world's best animals. We will just kill them without any discussion and there is no evidence to suggest that having a little mink back in Denmark would be a risk to public health. It appears as a very dubious claim that it should be the case that a few 10,000 animals should be a major problem • or 100,000 or 200,000 for that matter • when we know that there are about 20-30 million minks abroad that are not being knocked down. And then it is claimed that it is so indisputable that if, for example, 100,000 minks were preserved in Denmark, new mutations of the corona virus would develop. If that were true, the world would be unhappy with the 20-30 million minks that exist abroad, which are not being protected and which are not being knocked down. So the professional basis and the professional logic behind this are absent and illogical, and yet it is voted through without us having time to have a debate on it. Then there is the whole legal trail, where something comes out daily, as our talented press digs into it. Despite the fact that the government is doing its best not to stand for debate and actually simply repeats as a parrot that they refer to a statement that leaves more questions than answers, we have a press that skillfully digs into what has happened in the government and every day comes out with new revelations that put this matter in a really bad light. We know that the government has broken the law. That is why we are dealing at all with this bill, which is intended to legalise what the government has done. We also know that the government was aware for some time that it was breaking the law. We know that in order to order, as you do, when you write a letter to mink growers, where it says "31 times," it was illegal. We also know that the government did not respond to that. It was a surreal experience for us to sit in negotiations with the government during the days when the mink life took place and to sit and say to the government: You must stop breaking the law; you must stop ordering people to kill their animals. And then the government's answer to us was: we have to negotiate on that; it is part of the negotiations. It was quite absurd, and in such a situation I had to pinch my arm to think that I was awake at all and that it was not a nightmare to sit there with a Danish government who thought that we should negotiate whether or not we should comply with the law. It is totally surreal, and still away the support parties are not responding. They do not react either to the fact that millions of dollars, millions of dollars, have been pledged without a legal basis, in a so-called tempo bonus, which was as illegal as the order to kill the minks. At least it ran for 12 days, i.e. this tempo bonus. The entire government was fully aware that it was illegal to offer that money, and yet until 18 November the Danish Food Authority's website stated that you get a tempo bonus. It did not say: a political agreement has been reached in which it is intended to give a tempo bonus. It said you're getting a tempo bonus. In other words, the state offered money, which it had no authority to hand out, to the growers, and the entire government was aware of it. I know, because I personally wrote to the Prime Minister and said to her: Your Minister of Food will not intervene; I have told him for five days now, and he continues not to intervene. Nevertheless, neither the Minister for Food nor the Prime Minister reacted, and I believe that the fact that the Minister for Food did not respond was linked to the fact that the Prime Minister would not allow him to do so. What has happened is quite crazy, and compared to what has happened to some of the support parties, how harshly they have been to cases that have been much, much smaller, in bourgeois governments, I find it so embarrassing that the support parties are sitting on their hands and do not want to get this under investigation. As a minimum, it should be examined in depth, but as a previous speaker said, we already know here that there has been a violation of law. That's why we're dealing with a bill. I do not understand, and I think it is deeply depressing for our people's government that we do not intervene here. You have a moral responsibility, and you are not lifting it at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154725	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154732	Thank you. I should just like to remind the rapporteur quite quietly that a subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been set up. That committee has Mrs Mai Mercado, sir. Rasmus Jarlov's party colleague, Vice-President. It is set up on the initiative of the Left and Conservatives. What have we made that selection for? We have done so in order to find out what kind of study we want, what direction it should take, what definition it should have. It's not something you just do. Yes, we can. We can say that now we're doing an investigation, and then we're shooting with a shotgun, and then sir... Rasmus Jarlov is an investigation lasting 10-15 years. What on earth do we need it for? Now we are discussing quite seriously in that committee how to move forward, and I hope that we can reach a decision this week. Against this background, it is quite simply wrong to say that there is no interest in examining the matter in depth from all parties. 'Cause sir can. Rasmus Jarlov did not conclude until the work of the committee is finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154845	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154846	I have to say, unfortunately, that I see this as an attempt to delay when the support parties do not sign up for the commission of inquiry, which is the tool used in this type of case to clarify them so that we can later consider whether there should be an impeachment. I remember when we, uh... together with the Radical Left had a case with Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen as Minister for Food that it did not take the Radicals ten seconds to find out that a minister should have a motion of censure because she had made a wrong graph for us. It is impossible to find out here that a government which has so openly broken the law in a case that is 100 times worse must be held to account. I really don't think it suits you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154934	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208154936	But what on earth are we going to have that committee work for, now that Conservatives have the stones of the show? Well, that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov thinks he only knows. He is the one who is right; he is the one who has to define how such an investigation should be. No, it is not, and that is why we have set up a committee. Our objective in the Radical Left and my goal as chairman of that committee, and I am actually working closely with Mrs Mai Mercado on this, is to try to see if we cannot reach a study that everyone can see themselves in because there is a need for assembly. Everyone knows that the matter is serious, but there is a need for unity and not the division that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is inciting here, because no one in Danish society can use that for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155028	Thank you to the questioner. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155029	Exactly. There is a need for unity, and then there is no point in almost having a majority, where the Radical Left is lacking only in order to set up a committee of inquiry, and then the Radical Left is sitting and saying that they are just proposing something quite different that goes in a completely different direction, so that there is no majority in favour of anything. What is the problem here is that we do not agree, but we say: in the Radical Left we are thinking of something very special in this matter. There has been no problem in the past in setting up a commission of inquiry, for example. in the case of Inger Løbberg or other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155101	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155104	I think I get just as tired of it as a lot of other people in the country do when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says you want one thing, and if you don't, it's rude, and that's a whole lot of other ugly things. I won't even repeat the words you mentioned about me and others. Is it the case at Conservatives that, if you don't get your way, you just mess with others and forget one thing, namely to take a stand on this bill? I haven't even heard what, sir. Rasmus Jarlov thinks about the bill. I haven't heard what, sir. Rasmus Jarlov thinks about the claims. I have previously asked if you would be as generous as you are to ordinary workers, namely to give them two years of compensation of 60 to 70 per cent. This is what you get in support if you lose your job and thus often your life's work. What will Conservatives do about this proposal? I have no idea, because I have heard a rapporteur scolding us and telling us: I know what this is about and you know nothing at all. And it's pathetic to listen to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155204	I'm sorry if you think I'm messing with someone. I'd like to promise to keep a nice tone if the government and the support parties will promise to keep the law. But when you do not want to, I think it is very justified that you should have quite a harsh criticism, and this is very, very serious. This is the most serious case I have seen in Danish politics while I have been there, without comparison. I am happy to answer all the questions about what we think, and have also said what we think of compensation, where we do not think that mink growers should be gilded. After all, some people are trying to paint such a picture to derail the debate about what it is all about. We believe that they should be compensated for the loss they have suffered, no more and no less, and we are not here to represent the mink growers. We are here to represent justice and fairness, and it is, of course, that you get compensation when your profession has been closed down in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155259	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155300	I would like to ask one more question: I wonder what Conservatives think about where it should be and how it should work. Imagine if we stood here and said this is panic before closing in the bourgeois camp, they haven't been able to agree on shit all year, and now they just found a case where they can run some procedure on it. That would be a stupid discussion to start. I would much rather say: yes, let us find out if there is a breach of the constitution, let us find out if the committee is going to come up with anything. Otherwise, I guess you didn't take the initiative to have that committee working across the parties. I mean, should we not take it in that order, so that everyone other than Rasmus Jarlov also has an attitude and an opinion and an idea and something to contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155341	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. I emptied myself before, and it wasn't because I had a toad in my throat, but it was perhaps the language that strayed a bit from Mr. Christian Juhl. It is hereby forgiven. And now I give the floor to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155357	Thank you, President. Well, honestly, we're gonna find some little thing... was that what was said? No, that's not what was said, but Imagine if you said it). Okay, what if you said that? Well, it was good that nobody said it, because I would be shocked if someone said: here we found something, we were looking for a little hair in the soup. It's a whole wig with one drop of soup in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155427	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155432	Thank you. I'd like to know if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov recognizes that there are currently discussions, just like Mr. Jens Rohde said about how to investigate this impartially and to the bottom, and that there's no disagreement that you'd like to examine this to the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155452	No, I don't recognize the latter. I certainly do not recognise that there is no disagreement that we will have looked into this in depth. There are support parties here... Enhedslisten is one of those who completely reject the fact that there should be a commission of inquiry and who says that they should just have a lawyer's examination, and then perhaps later in a long time... Yes, yes, okay, that is to say, so that you are not completely undressed, so that your real agenda does not appear too clearly, i.e. that you just try to stall until people have forgotten the case. But we hope for the Radicals. We do so, and we also hope that the Radicals will strike and then say that we are now making that commission of inquiry. I think it must be difficult to be the Radical Left in the future when it comes to criticising other governments in this way. Radicals have a very great responsibility there, and we still hope that this will be lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155533	Sir. Kristian Hegaard for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155535	But Mr. Rasmus Jarlov didn't see that there, just like Mr. Jarlov. Jens Rohde said that discussions are taking place in the relevant committee, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned how among others. The Conservative People's Party is also represented, in other words, that there are current discussions about organising an independent investigation so that we can get to the bottom of this, and that it would be a good idea to use our powers there, so that we really get to the bottom of this, which is of great interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155606	Yes, it is true that discussions are taking place. That is true, and we hope that the Radicals will say yes to a commission of inquiry. They haven't done that so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155613	There are several Members who want to make brief comments. Just happened. So the floor must be passed on, first to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155621	I would just like to make it clear, although I have replied to it several times, that we in the Enhedslisten are in favour of a lawyer's investigation, and then we are open to the fact that this new animal in the mink case, the parliamentary investigative tool, could be something that we would be in favour of, depending on what the committee is bringing in. Then Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that we are against a commission of inquiry. It's not really quoted. We have said at this stage that this is not our conclusion now, but we have not denied that it is something that could be the tool we are using sometime in the future. I would like to appeal to the honourable Member to make a loyal reference to what has been said, especially when it has been said five or six times from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155702	I am correcting my statement: the Enhedslisten is not to make a commission of inquiry now, where appropriate, but only at a later stage when the matter is forgotten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155710	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155711	What is relevant for Enhedslisten, Enhedslisten finds out what is relevant for Conservatives, the Conservatives must find out. There I understand that it is hard to describe this new animal in the mink case, which may be a dangerous tiger, which can examine some ministers more thoroughly and more quickly than otherwise is the case. In other words, I attach more importance to the matter of speed than to the fact that it is a large commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155737	Yeah, that's a point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155740	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155744	Thank you. Now, of course, this bill is about killing mink from a health point of view. One might get the impression that it is about which forms of investigation are to be used, but it is in fact somewhere else. Now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, in his rapporteur's speech, said that, in his view, it was not a problem with mink and that it could easily have at least hundreds of thousands of animals. All I need to know is whether it is still Rasmus Jarlov's opinion that although it is well known that the corona virus is contagious from people to mink and back again from mink to people, and that mutations occur in mink herds, which can have a direct impact on future vaccines, and that the infection can spread out into society • that it will be safe and safe, also in relation to public health, to continue to have mink breeding in Denmark, also with the consequences we have seen, in relation to the spread of the infection into nursing homes, for example, where it has had a bearing on people's death?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155851	My view is that mink herds which are not infected with corona virus hardly develop new mutations of corona virus, and that the size of the risk of developing mutations in mink herds is approximately proportional to how many minks there are and that there are millions of minks abroad that are not being knocked down. Therefore, for me, there is no logic behind the idea that it is supposed to be a major public health problem to let, for example, 100,000, 50,000 • what do I know? I would have liked to have it clarified. That is why we have asked the government to make a health assessment of that scenario, i.e. whether it is possible. Because what we know is that there are experts who have said that they do not see that there are major problems with this, in the same way as I say, and that the SSI is not
ParlaMint-DK_20201208155957	Sir. Peder Hvelplund (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160000	Well, fortunately, it's not always sir. Rasmus Jarlov's logic, which defines how reality evolves, and we can at least see that back in July it was back when there were relatively few farms that had infected and where a containment strategy was made that was about the fact that the infection should not spread out. It had as a direct consequence that the infection spread out in society and that several farms and several people were infected. It is also the case that in places abroad where mink is infected, crews are actually killed, because the corona virus is also infected between mink and people abroad. Is it still Rasmus Jarlov's view that the containment strategy was the right one?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160037	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160039	See, when you cannot get, despite the fact that you have many, many times asked for the experts' assessment of a situation, then you have to apply your own logic. We've asked for it a lot of times. But there is no doubt in my eyes that 17 million minks were a significant risk to public health in line with what the Statens Serum Institut estimated because millions of them were infected. Therefore, the infected animals had to be killed, and therefore it was necessary to significantly reduce the mink population in Denmark. What we're discussing here is whether the last mink could have survived a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160119	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What makes me stand up for a brief comment is the last question from the Enhedslisten. It is absolutely right, as the rapporteur also says, that this bill is to make it illegal. It's a confession case. The Danish People's Party has also tabled an amendment saying that if you want to use these provisions to make it illegal, you must have a majority behind you in writing before using them. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the answer that came back from the government is that the government will not make sure? The government will only inform the Folketing when the government has decided on how to use the provisions that you get.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160157	Yes, I can confirm that. I can also say that I expect us to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160205	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160206	That is where we are at the heart of the matter. That is also why a commission of inquiry is important. For what the government is replying is that the government knows best and that the government does not need to talk to the Folketing. The government will implement the legislation alone, and the government does not need to have a majority behind it. Can the rapporteur not agree that this is what can be derived from the response given by the government in relation to the amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160229	Yes, I also think it is unreasonable for the government to meet the Folketing with the suspicion that we will not react quickly if there is a health risk. In March we reacted and had the bill dealt with within two days. So that approach with the fact that it is so acute, and now all mink must be illegally defeated, and you insert the police to do so, instead of engaging in a dialogue with the Folketing, I think is a strange approach. I don't think it suits the government or the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160253	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. Before we start the vote, I would ask Members, after they have been out of the Chamber and returned, to look at the screen and see if they have still logged in on their voting panel. That seems to be the case and we shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160307	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 18 outside the report by the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn)? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 5 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, KF, NB and LA) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. For the vote 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 49 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, adopted by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) on Amendment No 6. 7-9, adopted by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) on amendment No. 7, adopted by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). 10, adopted by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) on Amendment No 10. 11-14, adopted by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) on amendment No. 11-14, adopted by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). 15 and 16, adopted by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) or on amendments No. 15 and 16, adopted by a majority (S, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). 17, joined by a majority (S, V, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG))? They are adopted. It has now been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160526	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160543	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, RV, SF, NB and ALT), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 34 (DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 57 (S, V, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendments to the undivided legislative proposal shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13 and 14 outside the report by the Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard), on Amendment No. 2-5, adopted by a majority (S, V, CF and LA), on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Democratic Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8, adopted by a majority (S, V, CF and LA), on Amendment No. 8, adopted by a majority (S, V, CF and LA) on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community (S, V, CF and LA) on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community. 17 outside the report by the They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160753	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160812	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against voting 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 10 (DF and NB), against 84 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208160950	Amendments have been tabled. The members of the Committee of the Left have informed me that they wish to accept Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone then wish to make a statement? Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161029	Thank you. It is of course not a secret or classified information, one can say that we on the Enhedslisten side are very, very sceptical about the basis of investigation that lies here in relation to the scandal of the Defence Intelligence Service. It is simply extremely inadequate what is being put out. It is actually so far, I think, in the low democratic sense, that it is very, very difficult to trust that these scandals in the Defence Intelligence Service will be cleared up, and that is insanely serious, because what we are talking about is potential mass surveillance of Danish citizens, the extradition of our information on an illegal basis. So I think it would be helpful for all of us to have a closer look at it. It is also a criticism made by both the Enhedslisten, but also the Institute for Human Rights, the DJF and a number of other organisations, namely that this study is simply not good enough. That is also why we have tabled a lot of amendments to the draft law. A few weeks ago, we were discussing it here in the Chamber, and it was very exciting indeed that the proposal was referred back to committee, and I must admit that I actually had such a weak moment when I thought: 'Well, could it simply be that somebody is going to reconsider voting in favour of some of our excellent amendments?' But it turned out that this was not the case at all. The Left had come to table a proposal which unfortunately improved the possibility of calling witnesses, and it simply became too strong a diet for both the Left and the Social Democrats. That is why they chose to take it off the table again, because it would be awful if the setup of the study were to be slightly improved in this way. I really think that's a shame. I would have said otherwise that we would actually like to support this amendment from the Left. Maybe in the light of hindsight I shouldn't have said anything about that. However, I do find it regrettable that we cannot at least come together to correct the imbalances that exist here and that are being criticised so much by all the organisations in this area. Here we are again in the Parliamentary Chamber. You have a chance to vote again. I just have to say that I am insanely disappointed that, for example, The SF and the Radical Left, who would normally like to stand guard over legal certainty, cannot even swing up to support our amendments. In fact, I find that very, very worrying. On the side of the Enhedslisten, we would like to have a proper investigation in which one can have confidence. This also means that we cannot support what is here. It is simply too obscure what we are working on and it is too inadequate. That is why we will end up voting against the whole legislative proposal here, but we will, of course, be tabling the amendments. Basically, the problem is that we cannot be sure what is going to be investigated. The only thing we can be sure of and I think we can be absolutely sure of that with this investigation is that no previous governments or defence ministers are going to be held accountable in this scandal. And it may be very nice for Christmas peace if you are a former minister, but it is not very reassuring for our democracy and legal certainty. So I would just like to give a warning here that we are coming up with a few last minor amendments. Among other things: You will also be allowed to vote on the excellent proposals of the Left once again at the third reading, and then we will have another small proposal which we may hope to get the government to agree to. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to come up and explain why it is that we cannot get a guarantee that all the criticisms that have actually been made will also be included in this investigation. So I would very much like to invite the Minister of Justice to answer that question. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161424	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. A brief comment has just been made. It only came up on my screen now... sorry. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161435	I was a little late, too, President, so I'll take that on my cape. I'm just sitting here thinking politics is a strange size. We have just discussed L 77, I do not know how long, to investigate the government for a constitutional breach that has been recognised. Now the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten stands up here with a new study and thunders and says that it needs to be examined more, that it needs to be thorough and transparent, that we need to know what has happened. How can a party have such different views? When it is a government for which you are a support party, you do not want to have it investigated, but when it is the secret service, you want everything to be presented. What is the difference between the two cases, which are actually very similar to each other in terms of investigating and gaining openness?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161523	I can assure the rapporteur that we will have examined both cases. It is clear that both are insanely serious and challenge our democracy, so both matters must be thoroughly investigated. What is in relation to the mink case is, of course, that it is absolutely standard that you first carry out a lawyer's examination, and then you look at whether there is a basis for proceeding with a Commission investigation. At least we'll back that up. Of course it has to be investigated. In this case, however, we are faced with a huge scandal in the Defence Intelligence Service and we have a situation in which there are no parties other than us that will support absolutely fundamental legal principles, so that we can at least know what is actually in the mandate of this investigation. You don't even want to back that up. It is simply under all criticism, and I do not think it will be better for the Danish People's Party to say in the past that it would like to ensure that, for example, the Danish People's Party has also been out in the past. The role of the government and former ministers had to be examined in this, but after all, nothing will be done at all to ensure that it will happen. It's slippery.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161617	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161619	But is not a violation of the constitution, that is, a case in which we have agreed that the constitution has been broken, a huge scandal? There you first have to sit in a circle and have some others sit and look at it and look at some emails that have gone back and forth, instead of finding out what it is you want to have examined. We also think very clearly that we should sit around a little and find out what the terms of reference should be for a commission of inquiry in connection with a breach of the constitution. I understand from the Enhedslisten that here you are quite clear, but when it comes to a constitutional breach recognised by the government, the government agrees that it has broken the basic law, you do not want to say that we should have it investigated as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161655	We want to see what has happened, including in relation to the mink case. We think it is very, very serious. We have chosen to say that the way in which this is done is that you first make a lawyer's examination and see whether there is a basis and need to proceed with a Commission investigation. That is a sensible way of doing it. That's why we say it. But yes, it is a serious matter and, of course, it needs to be investigated, and I think we have been very clear about it all the way through, that we will also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161722	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161725	Thank you. Then the idea comes up: how much does it really have to do before the Enhedslisten thinks that it is now quite clear and now a Commission study is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161738	But what it takes is, for example, if the law investigation finds that there is a problem. Then you go ahead with a commission. That is how it works; it is completely standard; it is also what you do in other cases. However, when the rapporteur's own party comes up with a good amendment that could improve the Commission we are talking about here, a little bit of a study on the matter in the Defence Intelligence Service and then you find that it really is not going to work and that we simply cannot stand up for the fact that the Commission should have a little better chance of calling witnesses, as recommended by the Institute for Human Rights and Djøf, then I would like to ask the rapporteur: why on earth is it that you have withdrawn that proposal? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161822	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161824	But the rapporteur says in the very first line of his answer: if there is a problem. There is. I guess it's obvious to take the mink case; there's a problem. Then it must be obvious that you should move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161836	I think it would be obvious if the rapporteur would answer the question I am asking about the Defence Intelligence Service. The Left has made an excellent suggestion that you have got cold feet, and then you have withdrawn it. Why is it that the Left is so busy getting all this cover-up on this case of Defense Intelligence? Is it because too many ministers have been deeply involved in this matter in the past that they do not want to be looked at in the cards? Or what is at stake here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161900	Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There was an invitation from the rapporteur and it was an invitation which I know the Minister of Justice has actually already accepted. So welcome to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208161913	Thank you. Yes, it is true that I received an invitation before, and I also received one earlier, so I had already said yes. I think that, in order to give the right context, one has to ask: what are some basic premises that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has laid down over this study? We have said that basically there are four grounds on which that study should be based. The first is that, of course, there must be confidence that our intelligence services are acting within the powers that have been allocated to them. The second is that Denmark has been and must continue to be fully integrated into the Western security alliance. The third is • and it is important that the survey should not lead to the disclosure of sensitive information. And the fourth is that the study must be completed as soon as possible for the sake of both those involved and also for the sake of the ability of our services and services to function, that is, the working conditions that exist. This means that the actual demarcation will be such that the most central points are highlighted in the criticisms made by the supervisory body, for example. the question of the possible collection and transmission of data relating to Danish nationals, which was some of what Mrs Flyvholm pointed out just now; the question of how changing defence ministers have been informed; the question of the possible detention of information by the FE and the provision of false information to the supervision which initiated this case; and finally the question of the possible unjustified treatment by the Defence Intelligence Service of information concerning a supervisory officer. That is the definition we have made and it is on the four basic premises, but it also achieves the two objectives that need to be weighed down here: on the one hand, what is pointed out, namely the public interest, and, on the other hand, the concern for the security of the empire. Because we cannot be in a situation, and we must not put ourselves in a situation where sensitive information, classified material is exposed; for it will potentially mean something for our ability to safeguard our security as a nation. Why would it do that? That is because, and there are other examples of this around the world if we get into a situation where other countries can see that sensitive information they may share with us is exposed, the fact is that they are not calling and saying that now they will not cooperate with us anymore, but then the stream of information that we have will just as quietly dry out. And what does that mean? Yes, that would mean that we risk being in a situation where there is a potential terrorist attack; where there are threats to Denmark; where there are threats to our forces in the world or others who do not get the protection they deserve and which we could give them if we act credible in relation to our intelligence services. That is why it is not enough to take the view that we should just lay it all out in public. Because if we do, we risk paying a huge price on behalf of our realm's security and thus on behalf of all Danes. That's why this balance has to be made, and that's exactly what's happened. That's kind of my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162248	Thank you to the Minister; comments were being made by others in the Chamber, so there was some attention in that direction. But I can say to the Minister that there is an opportunity to speak even more, since there are Members who have asked for a brief comment. The first is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162311	The Minister will not let go that easily, but otherwise well tried with the applause to himself. I would say that we are very, very far from the scenario where everything is presented. Well, that's not where we are at all. On the contrary, so much information is being withheld that the Institute of Human Rights and other actors say that this means that people cannot be confident that this is being properly investigated when so little is said. I fully understand that there are many things that need to be secret, but one of the things I would very much like us to have examined is in relation to what the Intelligence Supervisory Authority itself says in the press release they made a few months ago, namely that they are concerned about whether there has been espionage in the area of the Ministry of Defence, to which the Defence Intelligence Service has not responded. Since then we can see how Danmarks Radio e.g. have been able to discover that the Americans may have conducted industrial espionage against Denmark, against the Ministry of Defence and also against Danish companies, in connection with the battle aircraft purchase. I mean, I've been obsessed with this big deal, and I actually think it could be good enough, but why can't we get a look at it? Wouldn't it be relevant to be included in the investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162424	May I not begin by saying that I believe that a great many of the members of the Folketing, many of my good colleagues, feel like me, that when you stand on a platform, you are always pleased to have the opportunity to speak to intelligent and interested people, to an enlightened assembly, but that it is also very nice to speak here. The truth is, Mrs Flyvholm, that if we go the way you say and say that this is what is involved and what is not involved, then we are in danger of exposing the Commission as there is. And: In your speech you make it sound as if there is no democratic anchoring in this, but that's not true. This is, of course, anchored in the committee that the Danish Parliament has created for this very question, namely the Committee on Intelligence, where it is natural to have it anchored, because that is where the control option lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162518	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162520	However, it would be quite natural for us here, the Minister of Justice, to take as a starting point the criticism raised by supervision: we are all examining this because it is so serious. It is not appropriate to leave out what is not politically convenient, and that is the feeling one can get here. However, I would like to ask something about the Control Committee. We have heard previous members of the Control Committee say that they are afraid that they have also been misled. We have repeatedly asked that this is something that should also be looked at in this study, i.e. whether the Control Committee here in the Danish Parliament has actually been deceived. Was it not perhaps a good idea to ensure that it was at least examined so that one could actually have confidence that there is proper control?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162601	However, this issue has to be dealt with in a different direction, because there are several research trails here, and the second is that it has clearly been said that there will be work on the relationship between the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Defence and the Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162616	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162621	I understand that very well as far as the public is concerned, because of course they need to know that there is an investigation, even for the sake of the fully integrated Western alliance. But when a party to the Western Alliance may have bottled information about Danish citizens and it is in the Danish media that it has been standing for a long time now how would one react as a third party in the fully integrated Western alliance, if one considers that this is a party that is a large Western country, even a very large Western country? Would you think: Have they also done so in our area? Have they also shared information about Denmark with some completely different parties? What I mean is: is this case not so much exposed that it is quite okay to say that there are some issues that should have been investigated here, both for the sake of the Danish citizens, but also for the sake of the other parties in this alliance that we are part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162726	The wording of the question is, of course, anticipating the answer to the questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162734	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162736	I would have said there in another situation: that is not an answer. In other words, some information has been set in motion, and it is now well known that there are some problems here. And I'm just saying, you're looking at these problems, but it has to be done behind closed doors, and only some of the problems have to be looked at. Then you help to say, "Hey, how can you trust this as a Dane, but also as a party to a great international alliance that shares intelligence information?" I simply do not understand that one is so selective about it and then goes not to the bite there, both for the Danes, but also for the sake of the other parties in the alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162819	Thank you. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162820	Well, that is what I was trying to say, namely that here the concern for the security of the empire plays a part, as to what kind of information we can provide. The safety of the Danes, in that this is properly investigated and anchored, lies in the fact that it is the Danish Parliament's Control Committee, that is, the Committee on Intelligence, which is the relevant party when it comes to investigating our intelligence services to prevent us from exposing sensitive information and thus risking the safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162852	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208162905	There is a vote to be taken, and as I see many empty seats, I am slightly concerned that we will reach more than 90 votes cast. That is how Members are now coming into order. Amendment No 5 is now to be voted on. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 84 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 7 (EL and ALT), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 2 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV, SF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour 22 (RV, SF, EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 72 (S, V, DF, 2 (SF) (by mistake), KF, NB and LA), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 10 of a minority (V), joined by a majority (S, DF, RV, SF, KF and NB)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 12, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 15 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (EL, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208163440	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting for approx. Twelve minutes. This will allow us to have pressure screens cleaned and, in the meeting management and voting system, to move Members back to normal places. And I can see that Members are leaving the Chamber in good order, so thank you for that. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 16.55.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208165504	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208165537	With motion for a resolution (Doc. B 49 which we are discussing here today, it is proposed that in this parliamentary year the government should implement two initiatives in the area of legal certainty. Firstly, a legal certainty fund must be set up to provide compensation and advice to vulnerable citizens with disabilities who have been wrongly refused assistance from the municipality. Secondly, suspension effect must be introduced in all cases of reduction and disqualification of assistance in the field of disability. This means that in all cases the citizen must retain the right to help until the Ankestyrelsen has taken a decision on the matter. I do not think that there is a single one of us in this Chamber who is unaffected by the stories we hear from citizens with disabilities, or when we see the turnover rates of the Ankestyrelsen. I cannot make it clear clearly enough that the municipalities should not use no-cure-no-pay consultants to save on help for people with disabilities, that it is not okay when municipalities introduce stopurstyranni, and that it is not good enough when the Ankestyrelsen changes or rejoins more than half of all complaints about help for children with disabilities. I fully share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution on legal certainty, but I do not believe that the resolution here contains the right tools. Firstly, the resolution will have major economic consequences. The proposers state that, in the start-up, the legal certainty fund must be financed from the reserve and then from payments of municipal savings on incorrect decisions. However, fair compensation for the citizen rarely corresponds to any savings made by the municipality. For example, the municipality has: not saved anything by making a wrong decision that a citizen should not have an aid that the municipality has at its auxiliary depot. So there is no saving to be paid into the fund. In the case of cash benefits, it is already the case today that if the Ankestyrelsen changes the municipality's decision, it applies retroactively. There are therefore no savings which the municipality can make. In addition, there is the cost of the additional administration, for both the fund and the municipalities would have to spend resources to measure the municipality's savings and compensation. And then there is a fundamental question as to whether compensation will at all act as an incentive for the municipalities to make the right decisions. For current cash benefits such as: In addition, it is now the case that the municipality has to pay the benefit retroactively if they have made the wrong decision. However, the rate of conversion in cases of current cash benefits is not significantly different from the rate of conversion in other cases. There is therefore no incentive effect. If we look at the proposal for suspensive effect, this will entail considerable additional costs, as aid will have to be provided during the period during which the Ankestyrelsen is dealing with the case, regardless of the fact that the municipality's decision to disallow or reduce is quite correct. It is also to be expected that many more citizens will complain because they will be entitled to help while the Ankestyrelsen deals with the matter. It is expenditure for which the state and the municipalities must find the money in budgets that are already under pressure, and we therefore run the risk that the motion for a resolution will lead to the opposite of the intention, namely to reduce legal certainty. Regardless of the fact that I share the concern about legal certainty, I cannot support the resolution either, because I fundamentally disagree with the cure. It is my view that we will not achieve better legal certainty by punishing the municipalities and using our powers, and the money for that matter, rather than the real thing, which is targeted to work with and to support strengthening legal certainty, so that the citizens get the right decision for the first time. I fully acknowledge that in certain cases and certain situations there may be a need for a raised index finger, and it can be lifted by the Ankestyrelsen. That is certainly part of legal certainty. However, the raised index finger must be followed by dialogue and support to do better, for example. through targeted taskforce courses at the municipalities. If we turn to the citizens' side, I also find it difficult to see that compensation from a legal protection fund will be a decisive difference. A citizen who has been denied or reduced his social pedagogy support does not need a small bag of money at the end of a long process of complaint. The citizen needs the municipality to make the right decision the first time. That is the right legal certainty, which is why a number of measures have been taken to improve legal certainty. This concerns, among other things: on the funding provided by the 2018-2021 Rate Pool Agreement for an action plan to strengthen the quality of the case management in the field of disability and the Ankestyrelsen's learning initiatives. But also initiatives on family consultants and better management supervision in the field of disability, which is part of the reserve agreement that we have just concluded. I would also like to highlight the Ankestyrelsen, which monitors matters at municipal level in order to intervene if there is a need to initiate initiatives. It can, for example, be done. to raise a matter of supervision concerning the legality of a municipality's general practice as part of municipal supervision. The effect of this has just been seen with the Ankestyrelsen's study of the use of private consultants in the social field, where the Ankestyrelsen set foot and stopped the municipalities using no-cure-no-pay consultants to prepare decisions. When I listen to the newly elected chairman of the KL Social Committee, Ulrik Wilbek, I hear a recognition that it is not good enough to recognise that legal certainty is lagging behind in the municipalities and that recognition is the first step towards change. Because we can dictate so much from in here, but it is in the daily meeting between the citizen and the municipality that we must strengthen legal certainty and restore confidence. Ulrik Wilbek points to increased citizen involvement, better competences and simpler rules as a key grip, and I look forward to going into dialogue with KL about this. The evaluation of the specialized social area is also at the heart of the work on legal certainty. Children, adolescents, and adults need the right help the first time. This requires strong competences in the municipalities and close involvement of the citizens. And it also requires offers that have the quality and specialized efforts needed to help citizens. In the government, we believe that it is necessary to take a thorough and fundamental approach and to look at the necessary structural changes in the area. Only in this way will we ensure real progress for the individual citizen and for legal certainty. That is why I am very much looking forward to discussing solutions with the Danish Parliament when the evaluation is completed in 2021. Finally, and as something very important, we also need to recognise that the legal certainty of citizens is also about a more fundamental increase in the welfare economy. It has been delivered by the government in two successive municipal agreements. To go back to where I started: I share the concern of the proposers for legal certainty. Legal certainty today is not good enough. However, we do not solve the challenges in the area of legal certainty by feeding the dog with its own tail and applying financial penalties to municipalities that are already under pressure on the economy in this area. We solve the problems with a far cool move, in which, firstly, we keep a political focus on doing better and taking political responsibility on us. This applies both here in the Assembly Chamber, but not least to our fellow party members in the municipal councils. The municipal authorities must take responsibility and intervene when, for example, The rates of change from the Ankestyrelsen show that this is not good enough. Secondly, we must ensure that the municipalities have better financial conditions to carry out their tasks. This government has done so in two successive municipal agreements, and we intend to continue to do so. Thirdly, we must support the municipalities as much as we can and make ourselves available specifically to support the path towards the success criterion, namely a proper decision for the citizen for the first time with a hand-held and learning approach. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170341	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170344	Thank you. I am deeply surprised that we have a Minister for Social Affairs who will not act in this area. Despite the initiatives we have taken in the past, we can see that it is not battling very much and that people are still getting away. So I'd like to know if the minister has even read this It says here on page 22: "Municipants save money by making wrong and illegal decisions. Basically, legislation requires municipalities to provide the right help in time for the citizens. This does not happen in more than 42 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. Now the Minister took part in this hearing on legal certainty which we held in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Affairs, so the Minister has listened to one-million votes, the Lawyers' Council, Justitia and the Ankestyrelsen, which has problematized the fact that legal certainty lags enormously behind. So what is the Minister actually going to do to rectify this issue and ensure that people get the help they are entitled to under the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170458	Thank you. Again, I would also like to thank the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Home Affairs for organising the very relevant and exciting hearing on legal certainty. I have actually taken my own notes from the day on the platform here today, because I thought it might be that we were going to discuss some of the things that were raised here today. I think, of course, that the rapporteur is putting his finger on the right place when she says that it has major consequences for citizens when the right decision is not taken for the first time, because it has. It has great consequences every time there is a citizen who meets a system set up in the world for the benefit of the citizen, and then finds that getting the right help is a struggle. Each time the citizen sees that he is not getting the right help and that the right decision is not being taken for the first time, but that he must go through a long, grueling process of complaint before he can get the help he should have had from the start. That is why the government and I have such a strong focus on and are so dedicated to ensuring that the citizens get the right decision for the first time, rather than building more and more on the good initiatives we have been in common. And I would also like to say to the rapporteur that there are some of them which it is too early to conclude have not worked, as the rapporteur does. We still have the benefit of seeing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170604	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170605	I do not think the Minister has read through his own notes well, or has the Minister not been aware of what was going on at that hearing. We have relatives today who are being driven down because they have to fight the system. We have parents who have children with disabilities who go down with stress and become unemployed because they cannot do a job. And then the minister won't act. So, the Minister says that the right decision must be taken in the first place, but that is not happening, Minister! So what will the Minister do when the right decision is not taken in the first place? What will the Minister tell the parents? What will the Minister tell relatives? What will the Minister tell the spouse who is fighting for her husband who has suffered brain damage?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170648	But it is quite true that it is unsatisfactory, and I think that in all modesty was the message in my speech when so many wrong decisions are made at first. I also think it is a very big problem with the experience that is with too many, that it is a struggle at all to meet the system that is set in the world, not to be a counterplayer, but a co-player. That's why this is basically about looking through the area. We are in the process of ensuring this with the evaluation of the specialized social area, i.e. that there are the right offers with the right degree of specialisation, but also that there is the right knowledge out there and that you can access the right knowledge so that you can make the right decision for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170724	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170727	Thank you so much. It seems very, very strange, because now the Minister is talking about the initiatives that have been taken in this area. We can only note that neither publication nor more decisions of principle nor task forces have done anything to help. The numbers don't lie, it's still going the wrong way. What will the Minister do if she does not want to punish the municipalities for making as many mistakes as they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170755	After all, there is no doubt that it is a major problem that so many wrong decisions are taken. That is all I have been told. That is also what I hear from the new Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment of the KL. And that's why we need to be deeply concerned about this. I think we are also on the agreements we have made. And here I have to say that it is the case that some of the initiatives we have put into the sea are still working, so it is a little early to conclude that they are not working at all. But then I think that this basic mapping of the whole specialized social area is one of the structural answers to how we can ensure that there are the right specialized services and that we in the municipalities also know when to fail in having the knowledge needed to make the right decision for the first time, and that we know where to draw on the specialised knowledge. After all, it is a question of changing something structural along with ensuring that there is a proper welfare economy in the municipalities. Local welfare was underfunded under the previous government. It will not be now, and the two things combined are something that moves something structural in relation to the right decision for the first time, rather than building on the system that is about what to do when the wrong decision is
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170904	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170906	I get so tired when the minister starts standing there and laughing it off with the previous government and everything else. We weren't in the Folketing then, so that record must be played by the minister for some others. I just don't want to listen to that, because this is too serious for that. Does the Minister really believe that it will be more expensive for municipalities to comply with the legislation in force? The Minister has helped shape what the Minister's party has helped shape and legislation that is broadly supported by the Danish Parliament? Does the Minister think that it would be expensive for the municipalities to actually just comply with the legislation in force? And if the Minister thinks so, why in the world has it been adopted, that is, if you do not intend to keep it in check?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208170946	First of all, I have not claimed that the author's party sat in the Folketing and supported the former bourgeois government. But to call it responsibility for a proper welfare economy on the local level, where the citizens are in the care of the elderly, in the day institutions, in the primary school and in the specialized social area, for a record that is put on, I think a very small understanding of what this is for a reality that is out there in the municipalities, where you struggle to make the budgets stick together; where you have to have educators for the children, social and health workers for the elderly and also a proper effort for these people. I think that's crazy to reduce to a record that's put on. Then I would just like to say that I think we have a proper and fair approach to this, where it is about ensuring that the right decision is made for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171033	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171034	Thank you to the Minister for the introduction. The Minister says that the Minister shares the concerns in this area with the high rates of change, which, unfortunately, have been the same for many years and where little has happened. That is why, of course, it is reasonable to ask the Minister if the Minister cannot support this and perhaps not the next motion for a resolution, what the Minister will do here and now to correct the conversion rates. I also hear the Minister say that we will not punish municipalities that make legislative mistakes, but, as a legal rapporteur, I know that in all sorts of other areas the government is very willing to increase the penalty against those who commit offences and do not comply with the law. However, when it comes to the weakest in society, we should not use the tool to tighten things up a little with those who cannot comply with the law. Then the Minister says, among other things, that this whole economy thing is crucial to complying with the law. That is why, like my second question, I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that the economy is a reason why municipalities do not have to comply with their legal obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171143	No, the Minister does not think so. I have heard the questioner conclude this earlier when we have had this discussion about whether a proper welfare economy makes it easier or harder to provide proper welfare to citizens. You can't take me as an income for that. So I hope not to be taken as income since then, because I certainly do not think so. It must be a concrete assessment of the individual citizen's need for help. I just object to this idea that there should be such a finger-tip solution or a snap-tip solution if we just put in some incentive idea where we should use some of our welfare economy where the wrong decision has been made, instead of using it to ensure that the citizens get the right help for the first time they apply for it. We can look at a place where it already costs the municipalities something, namely in cases of cash benefits. Here it is already the case today that if a citizen has been refused and the Ankestyrelsen comes to the conclusion that he should have had a cash benefit, or if he has set up a benefit and the Ankestyrelsen finds that it was not in order, the money must be paid retroactively, but we do not see that this is an area which thus appears as a place where there is a completely different error rate in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171252	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171254	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister, and it is gratifying that we now fully agree that the economy cannot be a reason why municipalities should not comply with their legal obligations. This means that there are no citizens out there who should or may be faced with decisions that, because of the low economic tide in the municipality, the citizen cannot get the benefit that, according to a specific and individual assessment, is required. That has now been clearly stated, and thank you for that. What, on the other hand, is strange is that in all sorts of other contexts, when someone breaks the law, the government says that the penalty must be lifted and that really hard action must be taken. However, when it comes to violations of law against the very weakest people in society, those who do not have the profits to assert their rights themselves should not be put into action. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171343-2	First of all, I also hope that this interaction we have had now means that the radical rapporteur also acknowledges that I do not think it really matters what kind of welfare economy you have out there in relation to what kind of welfare society people are meeting. That's pretty much true. I think that has been the case for a great many citizens at least. Secondly, I would just like to say that if it were the case that it was a wonderful solution to create financial incentives here, I would like to take part in considering it, but there is just nothing to suggest it when we look at how the error rates are in the cash services cases. Here it has an economic impact on the municipalities, but that does not mean that it strikes out as an area where no wrong decisions are made in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171429	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171430	Thank you. And thank you for your opening words, Minister. What I would like to ask the Minister a little more about is the very fine focus in relation to the citizen's having the right help for the first time. Because that's actually one of the things where I'm 100 percent in line with the minister. I also agree with the Minister that this is not a snapshot solution and that the problem, which is in the municipalities and for the many people with disabilities who experience a breach of trust and experience being left behind, is composed of many different components. Therefore, there are also many different components that we need to look at in order to ensure proper legal certainty and, most of all, that citizens get the right help for the first time. So I would like to ask the Minister in such a concrete and low-practical way that I do not know if it can be called, but at least in concrete terms: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that these citizens get the right help for the first time? Does the Minister think we're on our way? Personally, I do not see that we are going anywhere in the right direction. But what is the Minister going to do to get the right help for the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171548	Well, there is the wide range of initiatives that we have jointly launched, at least most of them present here, that is to say the action plan for improving the quality of procedures in the field of disability. And I will not go into it much, but among other things. say that one of the things the government has done here is to set in motion a work to improve the quality of the data and the knowledge contained in the Danish maps which must be dealt with in the municipal councils and where we must also consider whether we can really measure what we are delivering here. I think that is one of the most important things. It's not us in here who sits and deals with this in the municipalities. And this is where you have to stand up for whether you think you are providing proper help and effort to the citizens for whom you are responsible. That is why I am very pleased to hear the clear messages from the new Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment of the KL, who also clearly says that this is not right. And I will look forward to discussing with him what they may have of proposals that can build on the things we have already set in motion. And then, as I said, I look at the great blade more structurally the whole evaluation of the specialized social area, the securing of the right offers, and, incidentally, a proper welfare economy as some of the main cornerstones of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171655	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171657	Thank you. I am just trying to ask once again: what exactly is the Minister going to do to ensure that the citizens get the right help for the first time? It's urgent. We have a lot of people around us in the municipalities who find that they are not being met, that they are not being seen, that they are not being heard, that they are simply not being met in any way when it comes to getting help. And then they stand alone in an appeal system, where it can last up to several years before you are informed whether you can be successful in your complaint. What will the Minister do to help? I hear that the Minister is also involved in this, and I also hear that the Minister recognises the seriousness of this area. What is the Minister's intention to set in motion so that we can precisely achieve the goal of the citizen having the right help for the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171747	Well, I think we all owe it to each other not to pretend that somebody has one proposal that can fix this with a fingertips. It's complex, and it's, I think, some more basic things we need to get our hands on in order to turn this around. And I agree that we must therefore basically deal with the fact that there are the right competences out there where you meet the citizen and have to ensure that the citizen gets the right help. And you don't have the skills because it's too specialised a knowledge it requires, compared to the municipality you're in now if you like. is a small municipality... you have to know where to draw on that knowledge. And that is one of the things we look at when we evaluate the entire specialized social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171827	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171827-2	I fully agree with the Minister that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that the right decision is made for the first time. In any case, it is awfully grueling for the citizens to have to go through an appeal process. It's so bad when you lose your appeal, but it's just having to go through such an appeal process. So at least the Enhedslisten agrees with the Minister. But I guess that doesn't change the fact that, even if we do something, and I hope we do that after the evaluation, so we make far more real decisions so that we still have to have an appeal system. I also think that we are in complete agreement on this, and what is at stake here is: how can we eliminate the fact that the municipalities can actually profit from making wrong decisions? The Minister is then, I can hear, not in agreement with the legal security fund proposal, but does the Minister not agree that we should ensure that it is not the case that the municipalities can make money, save money, for faulty and defective procedures? I guess it is worthy of a community of law that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208171938	However, in this discussion it is only important to stick to the basic objective, and I am also pleased to hear that the Enhedslisten rapporteur makes it clear so clearly that the basic objective here is that the citizen will have the right decision for the first time. In other words, this thing of doing as if it would cost nothing to build up a system where time is spent on administration, on bureaucracy, on further processing, on further assessment and, incidentally, a small bag of money at the end of a long and grueling process, where a citizen has not received the help that the citizen should have had because a wrong decision was made the first time, I do not think is the right medicine. I also believe that it would be to shift both funds and focus from the most important effort, namely that the municipalities should make the right decision for the first time. So I simply do not think that the cure here is the right one. I am glad that we agree on the objective. But I don't think the cure here is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172038	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172038-2	I would say that it was always nice for everyone to comply with the law, so we could save a lot of money both in the appeal system and in the courts. What I would like to ask as the second question was that I could understand that the Minister is not very enthusiastic about the concept of suspensory effect. The Minister's predecessor did, of course, that she, together with a majority in the Folketing, introduced an alert clause instead, which was in many ways welcomed by the system that was created there. Could the Minister imagine that we included more provisions under the early warning provisions? For example: the settlement clauses and section 85 are not covered by the alert provisions. Couldn't that be a way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172128	After all, I am an open person in the sense that I am always willing to discuss good proposals coming from the parties of the Folketing. But it is clear that none of all of this is free to roll out, and if you make suspensive effects in less intrusive cases than we do today, it will also mean that aid will then be provided during a period when the Ankestyrelsen comes to the conclusion that it was actually true that that aid should not have been provided. And is this where we need our limited welfare crowns? Is this about people getting a help they weren't actually entitled to? I don't think so. Once again, we are dragging the funds into a system where we would much rather see to it that the citizens get the right help for the first time, and it is not a struggle to get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172215	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's line and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172231	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled a motion for a resolution which, of course, highlights an important issue: legal certainty or perhaps a lack of legal certainty in the area of disability. One cannot work with disability policy for a very long time without being fully aware that legal certainty in the area of disability is not good enough. Among other things, it bears witness. the rates of change in the Ankestyrelsen (Ankestyrelsen) bear witness to this, not least many concrete stories from people with disabilities. Legal certainty in the field of disability is not good enough. The question then is how best to correct it, how best to strengthen legal certainty. The motion for a resolution contains two suggestions on this issue. It is, firstly, the establishment of a legal certainty fund to provide compensation and advice to people with disabilities who are wrongly refused an application for assistance from the municipality, and therefore also a fund to which municipalities have to pay when making wrong decisions. Secondly, there is the introduction of suspensive effect in all cases of reduction and disqualification of assistance in the field of disability. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not believe that the resolution here is the right way to go in the fight for better legal certainty that we otherwise recognise as necessary. We do not think that economic punishment for already economically pressured municipalities is the right tool. We are actually worried that this might lead to even greater pressure against legal certainty, and financial compensation for wrong decisions for citizens who most of all need the right decision in the first place, we also do not think that is the right way to spend their energy and money. Because it will cost money and it will cost extra administration when the penalties to the municipalities and the compensation to the citizens have to be met. Our bid to strengthen legal certainty is the long tough move to get as many real decisions in the first instance as possible, to support the municipalities' case management, among other things. with task forces under the auspices of the Ankestyrelsen and the National Social Security Agency. It is also a strengthened welfare economy, which the Minister mentioned, and which we have delivered in both the economic agreements we have made with the municipalities so far, it is also something like the pool that is in the new financial agreement to citizens' advisers in the municipalities, which is not least thanks to something that the SF has wanted and pressed for, and it is not least the evaluation of the specialized social area which is in full swing and which, to me, must be one of the most ambitious that has been set in motion by a government in the field of disability for many years. We therefore agree with the challenge, and we agree that legal certainty is not good enough, but we do not agree with the specific tools contained in this resolution and therefore we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172545	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172547	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur and also the Minister say that it costs money. Yes, it costs money to comply with the law, it does. So I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur: what is the cost of not complying with existing legislation? How much does it cost in human fates? How can you make it up like that? We're actually talking about that in over 42 percent. that matters do not comply with the law. The argument for social democracy is that it costs money if you have to. To be honest, I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur: what does the Social Democrat himself want? What are you gonna do? There is no one in this Parliament who disagrees that citizens must of course have the right decision in the first place, but the fact is that it does not happen. And while that does not happen, the legal certainty of citizens is greatly impaired, which results in many health impairments, parents can go down with stress, because they have to fight against a system. So what is the Social Democracy's bid to remedy the madness that is taking place in the social field?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172702	The questioner says I'm saying it costs money to comply with the law. What I am saying costs money is the concrete proposal that has been put forward here. The proposal may also cost money, but I think it is best if we can also point out some funding. I have some doubts as to whether the questioner thinks this is completely free of charge. And then I just reserve the right to disagree. But the most important argument is that I can be nervous that if we do this, we move the focus from what is most important, namely the right decision in the first instance, to something that I can well understand one might want to do, which in my view is just not where I would put most of my strength, namely to pay compensation when the right decision has not been taken. I would like to put the resources, the forces, the money as much as possible where we try to secure as many correct decisions as possible in the first instance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172757	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172759	The fact is, the municipalities are saving money. If the rapporteur reads it here, there are indeed examples of cases. There was a case in 2014 where the municipality had saved costs by not providing help for night relief for 74 weeks. It was estimated at 1.2 million. kr. There is another matter, too, where you can say that you have not provided help as you should. There it was estimated at 881,000 kroner. So savings are being made in this area, and we believe that the citizens must have legal certainty and that they must have paid compensation, and we must create a legal certainty fund for this, just as we have the victim fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172840	I have a little experience of the questioner trying to make it sound as if we also disagree on the objective, and we are not. But we disagree on the means. It's an honest case. We agree that legal certainty is not good enough today. We just want to use some other means. And one of the first things we have addressed, as we also said in the election campaign we wanted to do, was to strengthen the welfare economy of the municipalities. Now the questioner himself talks about savings in the municipalities, etc. We therefore believe that there is a link between the services that can be provided, the extent to which such things as legal certainty are under pressure, and the basic welfare economy that exists in the municipalities. So it's one of our primary solutions. I do not know whether the questioner disagrees, but that is one of the things that we have in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172934	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208172942	Thank you for the floor, President. The intention behind the motion for a resolution that we are discussing today is basically very sympathetic to the Left. I think the rapporteur from DF has heard that before. It is essential that people with reduced functional capacity or disabilities receive the assistance they are entitled to. However, because there is one but, and this is an important one, we cannot support the proposal. We in the Left would very much like to help vulnerable citizens with reduced functional capacity or with a disability, and we would also very much like to strengthen the legal certainty of these people. Nevertheless, we do not think that what the Danish People's Party is proposing in this resolution is the right way to do it. The motion for a resolution is certainly sympathetic, understood in the sense that it aims to solve a real problem, namely wrong, too poor and too time-consuming. However, to do so by establishing a legal security fund and by introducing suspensive effect when complaining about a municipality's decision, we just do not think that is the right way to go. And it is not because it would basically be a patch solution. In fact, it would not put an inch on the quality of the municipal procedure. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution does not make it clear how the legal certainty fund is to be financed. And then I have not been mentioned at all that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior has stated that if additional suspensive effects were to be introduced in this type of complaint, this would entail an additional annual cost of 111 million. kr. But does this mean that we in the Left will just stand by and leave these people, people with disabilities in the lurch, many of whom have certainly been denied the municipal aid they need on a false basis? No, of course we don't. As I see it, and as the Left sees it, it is absolutely crucial that we strengthen the procedures in the municipalities and therefore legal certainty. The solution is not that we improve the possibility of complaining about the case-file or that compensation arrangements, advice or suspensive effect are being introduced. That's what I was referring to before when I was talking about patch solutions, because unfortunately I think it is. Left thinks we're going another way. We must tackle the root of the nettle, which means that we must improve municipal procedures and strengthen legal certainty. And yes, I admit that we have tried several times before to strengthen legal certainty, both generally in the social field and specifically in the field of disability. For example: The Left, as other parties have also mentioned, together with other good parties in 2017, has helped to allocate pool funds in the region of 54 million. kr. to a plan of action designed precisely to improve the quality of procedures in the field of disability. Unfortunately, something could suggest that this has not been done with an increased focus and with a plan of action. Against this backdrop, I would just like to call on the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to take the initiative, with the backdrop of the office, in explaining or possibly evaluating the measures already taken to strengthen procedures and legal certainty in the municipalities. This must be done with the aim of making it clear exactly where the shoe is pressing. Is the reason for the poor handling of cases, for example? Too little knowledge of the provisions of the Administrative Act? Forgot to be part of the hearing? Or is it perhaps due to the slowness of the proceedings that matters in the field of disability are very complex and difficult to provide? Or it is due to something quite third or fourth, for example. that the case workers need more training or that they are looking at the wrong money box? I don't think we have the full picture, regardless of what others think we don't. But then when it has been illuminated, and we can see where and how deep the roots of the nettle really stick, then the Left is more than ready to grab hold of the roots and once and for all get rid of this weed. In this regard, we will not deny in advance that more money may be needed to correct the problems. But we must first know the nature and extent of the problems. The short of the long term is that if we do not act, we run the risk of people with reduced functional capacity or people with disabilities being left behind. For the same reason, I hope that the Minister and his officials will be able to carry out a study quickly so that we can find a proper and comprehensive solution, preferably before the evaluation which I am on the Minister has already mentioned in relation to the whole specialized social area, but perhaps just in the area of disability, and preferably quickly; that is, a solution that is directed at the core of the problem, against the root of the nettle, which probably means that we need to have a better, faster and more streamlined municipal procedure. In this way, we can strengthen legal certainty, just as we can hopefully ensure that more people with reduced functional capacity or people with disabilities can continue to receive the help they are entitled to and need in the future. I should like to say from the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today, that they are also voting against the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173456	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173500	Thank you. I am not surprised, because with the Left, they are full of fine words, but when it comes to action in the field of disability and the whole area of legal certainty, nothing will happen on the Left, and that would not have happened in the last period if DF had not fought for it. This was where the Left had to be dragged to the trough when action was required in the field of disability. And that's how it's still gone. You don't have to look into this area. There's plenty of knowledge. You can look at the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen, you can talk to enmillion voices, you can talk to Danske Handicap organisations, you can talk to the Muscle Dwindling Foundation and others, or you can talk to the parents of Theis and Liva, who need the help they need to handle everyday life. And the Left's solution is that we need to check that out. I mean, this area doesn't have to be investigated in order to strengthen legal certainty. You can strengthen legal certainty without investigating the area, because what this is about is that the law is not being observed, and when there are some solutions on the part of the Danish People's Party, the Left strikes it down. How many proposals has the Left itself made and will make in this area to improve legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173609	When we talk about quality, we can also say that there is a difference in the quality of the motions for resolutions that are coming, and frankly, I think it is a little unfair that the same motions for resolutions should continue to be submitted with virtually the same content. We have said ourselves that we also want to look at social legislation. How about we sit down with Ulrik Wilbek and KL and get a look at how we're going to make a solution instead of all of us standing in here and getting excited about a dialogue where it's more about profiling ourselves in this area? Exactly one million votes, which are also some of those I speak to a great deal, have also mentioned it. Why don't we move in here away from the cameras and make a real deal on this? And when I say that I would have liked to have looked at what is of solution proposals, it is also in recognition that many good organisations have many, many different proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173656	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173657	After all, these are the very ones I am putting forward in the Chamber, that is to say, the good proposals that come from both organisations and the Council of Lawyers. The recommendations we get from real life • recommendations to correct in this area • we lead down to the Parliamentary Chamber or to the negotiating table. And the Left is saying that we must wait for a study, but the rapporteur did not reply to what the Left then puts forward in the Chamber. What will the Left do to remedy this issue and ensure that people with disabilities receive the help they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173734	We could start by looking at the action plan that was made with the 54 million. kr. In other words, if you have already made a plan of action and have already sent something of which money has been set aside, it would be obvious that you had a look at why you have sent the funds and it has not become as you would have liked. This is something that virtually all parties have been involved in, so we could start there. Then I would really like to look at the whole social counselling. Well, I've also helped parents in Odense Municipality to forward things to the Ankestyrelsen, because they hadn't gotten the right decision the first time, and I also have to say that there are young newly educated people out there who may not be fully updated in this legislation, so it would be obvious that it was also some of the things you looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173812	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173815	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Last time we talked about the disability issue, it was also the same rapporteur who was in the chair, and that is very positive, because I am passionate about a question which I also asked the rapporteur last time. For what I have noted is that the Social rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre, from the Left, has put forward a proposal on Facebook to say that, if aid has been granted first, it cannot be withdrawn unless there is decisive new information on the matter or there are errors in the procedure. Unfortunately, the rapporteur has chosen to withdraw, which is why I asked today's rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, what the Left will do. Here is a solution: suspensive effect. Here is a way to ensure that you can not just get your help removed, but that you can at least wait for the complaint process and wait for the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. So what is it in the Left that we think we can do and will do quite specifically to help these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208173931	After all, our social rapporteur put this on the social media, because once again there had been a horrible example of what is going on and what is going on. Now I have not taken up my briefcase, but I also have a thick briefcase of enquiries from citizens who have some quite wrong decisions and that goes against everything I stand for. That is also contrary to everything our Socialist rapporteur stands for, and that is why she did the post in the first place. But it is clear: we also have to look into how we can solve this, and that is where I want people to enter into dialogue with the government, and that we, all the parties in the Danish Parliament, have to sit down without cameras on and have a look into how we solve this. For it is clear that it is no use either that we are simply passing a billion bill on to the municipalities, regardless of how good and sympathetic it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174018	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174020	I fully agree that we should not just send the bill to the municipalities. I myself come from a municipal council and have tried to sit down with how you can piece this together, and have seen how difficult it can be when you get more and more people who need support in the social field, while you get more older people and children and things like that, so there absolutely must be room for understanding too. The problem is that we have to go further than just talking; we have to act. That is why I would like to hear what the Left wants, because then we are very concerned to see if there is anything we can work on together to help the situation of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174055-2	That is exactly what I have just proposed: that we sit down. We can sit down tomorrow if you want. Let's sit down. We have had hearings here last week and we have had a lot of inquiries from organisations. Now we're gonna have to put this together, because it's still sticking away a little in all directions, I'm sorry to say. I would really like to sit down with the rapporteur from the SF and with everyone else, and not least with the government, and find out how to solve this. And now I quickly wrote down what the rapporteur mentioned in the previous question, and precisely an early warning system which is already in place in some areas today, I also think it might be interesting to look into, i.e. whether there is something there that we are missing but which is not included in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174133	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174136	It's a little bit funny to follow this debate. I simply have to say that. The Social Democratic Party will pay more money for poor procedures, and the Left will pay a lot of Danes' money for more DJs. And the rapporteur himself says this: action plans and everything else are patchy solutions, now solve the problems instead. I find it incredibly sad to hear that the rapporteur is saying this because there are apparently some people who, if you adopt this, will be left behind. No, then I have to tell the rapporteur that they are simply being abandoned today because there is no legal certainty in this area. I understand, then, that the Left has no desire whatsoever to introduce, and I think that is really a pity. And I do feel a little sorry for the rapporteur for being the rapporteur for the rather wretched position of the Left in this area. I simply have to say that. I just have to ask once and for all whether the Left does not believe that punishment can have an educational effect. Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174239	There are, of course, people who are left behind today, unfortunately. Quite frankly, I do not think that this resolution solves it. I would rather rather, and that was where I referred very carefully in my rapporteur's speech, to the root of the nettle, to the fact that we are going in and having a look at how we start it, and how the Minister mentioned it, so that we can actually sort this out in the first place. Why is it that we need a system that tackles matters when it is that should not be necessary. Then you mention it with a number of DJs: I didn't say that! I'd like to say that. You don't have to hire any more DJs. For example: Some municipalities have worked to hire or have a headhunt a specialist consultant, for example. a lawyer from the Ankestyrelsen. Then it is not because the person goes in and takes another role, but there is someone else who is being moved forward. And possibly you could move the person into the private business sector. It's a small page note. And that could be a win. It could be a gain that could raise the quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174336	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174337	It is not to grasp the root of the nettle to start and sit down talking about things. We would always like to talk about how to solve this, but you could actually just vote for what is really going to solve it, and this is the next proposal and this one. But I asked the rapporteur a very, very specific question: does the Left believe that punishment can have an educational effect? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174401	I do not think we can vote for it because it is a patchy solution. I have also mentioned this several times. And it is regrettable that there are new citizens and the left, so just not the same. Frankly, I do not think this will solve this, and I would be sorry that some things were voted through and passed on a billion-dollar bill to the municipalities, which did not allow us to have better legal certainty in this area. That is why, frankly, I recognise that it is not working well as it is now. There are things that need to be changed. Quality needs to be improved in this area, and it could be if we got together tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174440	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then the rapporteur for the proposers has asked for a split of her speaking time, so that is now Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174451	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we have been fighting for many years to improve legal certainty in this area. Too many must fight to get the help they are entitled to. In addition, there are huge differences in aid, depending on which municipality you live in. Some dare not move, and others choose to move to get the help they need. We have made several proposals in the Danish Parliament and now we are making one more and, as I could hear from the rapporteur of the Left, it is annoying that the Danish People's Party continues to make proposals in this area in order to improve legal certainty. I find that deeply disgraceful. After all, we want to require the government to implement the following two measures in the field of disability: 1) to establish a legal certainty fund to ensure compensation and advice to vulnerable citizens with reduced functional or disability who have been wrongly refused their application for assistance from the municipality; 2) to introduce suspensive effect on complaints about the municipality's decisions to reduce and disallow assistance in the field of disability. The Lawyers' Council has published a good report to us, including with proposals for solutions, and in a report from March 2020 the Council has recommended that legal certainty be improved for citizens with reduced functional or disability. That report provides us with a series of solutions for politicians, including the creation of a legal certainty fund in the field of disability, precisely to compensate citizens who have received wrong decisions, and to support legal certainty by providing access to legal assistance to citizens. The Lawyers' Council then proposes that the law on legal certainty be amended to take account of the very large proportion of incorrect decisions we are seeing today. After all, the Danish People's Party has made proposals in the past for suspensive effect, and unfortunately this became the compromise that we have today on the alert system. That is what we were able to obtain a majority for at that time. But it is certainly a step in the right direction. And I know that there are a lot of people who are happy about it, but I think that we can extend that scheme. Today the Ankestyrelsen's processing times are far too long, and a case can run between the municipality and the Ankestyrelsen for years, which is why it would be quite good if we could jointly introduce suspensory effect. Of course, for people whose ability to function has not been improved, they must be allowed to retain the help they are entitled to until there has been a decision by the Ankestyrelsen, which says otherwise. And there we just see, unfortunately, today, that too many have to fight against the municipalities. The Danish People's Party then proposes, in accordance with the Lawyer's Board's report and solution, that we establish this legal protection fund in the field of disability. The fund must, of course, create an incentive for municipalities to significantly improve the handling of disability cases, and at the same time it must also serve as a safety net for citizens who get the lives and everyday lives of the municipalities' critical cases. The legal security fund should also provide compensation in the field of disability to citizens who, due to the errors of the municipality, have to wait a long time for the assistance to which they have been entitled under the legislation. I can also say that compensation will not, of course, be a real compensation for a definite loss, but there will be, for example. could be granted compensation to relatives who have carried out the work which the municipality should have granted in the first place. The Fund must also be able to pay subsidies or benefits retroactively once the Ankestyrelsen has ruled that the municipality's decision was wrong. In general terms, we also think that this legal protection fund is very good, because we have the same system as we know from the Compensation Board for Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims. After all, the compensation board aims to protect the weaker party and ensure more simple access to compensation for the victims, so that they do not rely in the midst of a crisis situation on having to bring a real trial against the perpetrators. And we know that from another area. Every day we can read the rapporteurs in here about the lack of help for citizens, and we could each list numerous examples of it. It is simply not right to treat people that way. A lot of relatives are so burdened that they themselves end up as patients, and that trend seems to be getting worse in the future. This is also precisely why Danske Patients have also called for political action. Several studies show that relatives are so physically or mentally burdened that they go down with the flag and have to register for sickness. After all, the relatives are a huge resource for society, which is why it is only fair that we, as a society, take good care of them and offer them the necessary support. Treating stress, depression, post-traumatic stress, and anxiety are everyday for thousands of relatives. Several studies show this. That is why action is needed and action is needed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208174958	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at least now. So we go further in the rapporteur's line, and now it is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Henrik Vinther.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175014	Thank you for that. It is regrettable that no one will ask when you have just been spoken warmly. But it has already been said from here today that the pain threshold for the number of errors and reversals has been reached, and not least for how many people have to live with these mistakes. That is why we are in favour of the proposal, as proposed by the Council of Lawyers. It is true, as has been said today, that it does not solve the fundamental problem. It may be a patch solution, but now that the bike is flattened, it may be that we should start with it. For the problem is basically that rules and lives cannot always meet each other. Social workers are under pressure of work, and this has not diminished over time. And then mistakes mean you have to spend time fixing mistakes. This applies both to the Ankestyrelsen and to the individual municipality, time which may need to be taken from good professional processing and to complaint handling. Do not get me wrong: it is not the case that the right of appeal is not important. It is very important, and that is why I am also pleased that the Finance Act that has just been agreed provides additional funds to bring down the hump. Of course, the waiting time has to be down. But that does not fundamentally change the fact that it is a cultural issue in the municipalities, how to make the right decisions the first time. It is important to stick to it at the same time. It is therefore also gratifying that in the just agreement on the Finance Act for next year, funds have been set aside for a citizens' advisory function, where municipalities can receive financial assistance to employ a citizen's adviser who can provide guidance and advice to citizens in situations where help is needed. Fewer errors result in fewer complaints, fewer complaints give more time and more resources for proper processing, and I would like to highlight this in the work we will then start. And then maybe there's also a need to follow the development at the start level if we look at it like this. For it is clear that if there is a rule that says that there may be suspensive effect, there could be a tendency for one to lie down at a lower level than one would otherwise do. But we must look at this in the committee work. We welcome the proposal and look forward to further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175209	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175212	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his positive comments. We are incredibly happy about that. We had hoped that there would be more, you could say 90 mandates, behind this proposal. However, I would like to hear something from the rapporteur when the rapporteur now mentions the Financial Law Agreement. After all, a pool has been set up where municipalities can apply for a citizen's adviser. It is not mandatory, you have not made an agreement on that, so you can choose for yourself as a municipality, whether you want a citizen's adviser or not. But what has been done is, in fact, that it has been said: the municipalities that have a citizen's adviser are then not given any funds. But the municipalities that have sorted out a citizen's counsellor can now seek money to get a citizen's counsellor. Isn't there something unreasonable in that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175306	Thank you. Here I will choose one concentrate on the cheese and not the holes in it. It is gratifying that there is some money for the municipalities that do not have this function, so they can get it tested off. As I recall, over four years there's a pool for it. And then it is true that there are some who can get into a mess there, so to speak. We have to look at this, but I think the starting point must be that new municipalities can come along so that the citizens who live in these municipalities can also benefit from guidance and advice, so that you get the right help for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175328	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175329	I do not think there is anyone in this Parliament who thinks that we should have the right help in the first place. That would be incredibly gratifying. We can just see that it doesn't happen. I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on the very suspensive effect of the radicals and the early warning system: is this something that is being fully and definitively endorsed, or how do I understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175358	As has been mentioned, I think it was by the rapporteur of the Left that this is perhaps a patchy solution so that it does not change the fundamental problem, namely that there are too many erroneous decisions. But while we get the bike patched, I almost said, this is a good way to move on. So, yes, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175411	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175432	Thank you. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the Ankestyrelsen has to revise up to half of the municipalities' decisions in the field of disability. The length of the proceedings in the Ankestyrelsen is also far too long, and we are, of course, fully in line with the authors of the motion for a resolution when it comes to the crucial problem of the municipalities reducing or denying the citizens the necessary help, while the citizen's case lies still in the Ankestyrelsen, where many months are often taken or years before a decision is taken. We are dealing with vulnerable citizens who often do not have the resources and mental profits to bring a complaint to their municipalities. This is also why SF has been a major contributor to the introduction of a pool for citizens' advisers and, in general, better legal certainty for people with disabilities in the country's municipalities in the context of the Finance Act for next year. Specifically, the budget law for 2021 provides for 30 million. kr. for citizens' advice and 35 million. kr. the following three years. At the same time, 5 million have been set aside. kr. in 2021 to wind up case bumps in the Ankestyrelsen. Is that enough? No, of course not. In a rule of law such as the Danish one, it must be the case that you cannot have your help withdrawn until your complaint is finally settled by the Ankestyrelsen. Everything else is inhumane and unjust, and I can only try to imagine what it must be like to be in that situation myself. But I think it is only those citizens who have been in the situation themselves who actually know what it feels like to be robbed of such vital and necessary help in their daily lives, in relation to the fact that as a person with disabilities you have the opportunity not only to live but also to live an active life as a citizen. That is why we are also in favour of the part of the motion for a resolution that is about better guaranteeing people with disabilities, where the proposal is to introduce a real suspensive effect in complaints so that citizens do not suddenly get their help removed when the municipality has cut down and the answer is not on the part of the Ankestyrelsen. So we look forward to further work on this in the forthcoming committee work, including an assessment of how the early warning system has worked so far. The authors of the motion for a resolution also highlight the recommendation of the Lawyer's Council report, which the SF has used to address as a sensible initiative, namely to establish a legal certainty fund in the field of disability. SF has previously indicated in this Chamber that we want a legal certainty fund that provides compensation or that allows the Ankestyrelsen to give the municipalities a penance, and that money then goes into a legal certainty fund that will help to lift legal certainty throughout the country. We have also indicated that we want compensation for those citizens who may have incurred expenses during the period when they have not received the aid. So we are also positive about that part, but perhaps in a different form than the one just described here. However, we lack responsible funding for the proposal. The Social Reserve, to which the Danish People's Party refers as financing, is provided for in the 2021 Finance Act, and in addition, we have also in the Social and Home Affairs Committee embarked on a slightly broader discussion of legal certainty in the area of disability, in particular, which I look forward to getting even more developed. With these comments, the SF looks forward to the upcoming committee work and hopes that there will be a broad majority in favour of improving people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175821	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175825	Thank you. It was a proposal that the Danish People's Party also made when we negotiated the reserve so that we could just get this legal certainty fund up. But it's amazing to say it costs something. In other words, when a municipality does not supply the goods it is required by law, there are apparently more in here who believe that it should be able to do so and even and freely. Then there are others who say: No, when you do not deliver the goods you have to deliver and to which the citizen is entitled, it must cost and that money must be provided in a legal security fund. And then you talk about this costing a lot of money. I think you forget the citizen in this, and I think you forget the relatives in this, because what we know, and what is reported, is that the municipalities save if you save, for example. If we do not give the citizen that help for one year, we will save the hours that we should actually have delivered to the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208175932	Thank you. What Mrs Karina Adsbøl has heard me say a great deal about in her speech is actually the citizen. What Mrs Karina Adsbøl has not heard me say anything about is that it costs an awful lot of money. But what I said, and what I would really just like to emphasise quietly, is that it is clear that the SF as a responsible financial law party, at least as part of the financial law agreement that is now, cannot of course just start voting for proposals that we can see may have some expenditure. There has to be some form of basic funding when you start a legal certainty fund. There must be an operation and administration of it. It is not the case that money can just flow in and out of its own hands. In this way there will be some kind of funding, and it is not, of course, because we are in any way opposed to finding it, because we ourselves have been proposing it in the financial law negotiations that are just over. But we also have to be responsible, so make sure that we do not just put things in the lake for which there is no money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180032	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180034	Yes, it may be that it costs at first. That is what we are proposing to take out of the reserve, and it is in fact also in the motion for a resolution. But when you talk about the economic part, you are actually talking about the fact that it is the municipalities that may ultimately be told by the Ankestyrelsen that they have not delivered that product. And then you create a legal certainty fund in which those funds go. I am sure that the rapporteur is also aware that we have a victim fund today. When you get a fine from the police, there'll be 500 kroner. in the victim fund, so that things are financed through it. But I just need to hear SF: will SF support this proposal, or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180118	Thank you. I am pleased that we agree that there will be some kind of start-up funding of this kind. Then we've kind of put a line under it. Of course, it has to be found before we can start putting things in the lake. Unfortunately, the world is a little hasty when you're a politician. What the rapporteur has to hear is that we are making a positive start on the future work on both proposals. I have also been very clear about where SF is in relation to a legal certainty fund and how we see models of compensation being able to work. So, of course, these will be the positions we enter into the work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180200	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for the rapporteur's speech. Where I get a little curious is compared to the part where you've set 30 million. kr. and 35 million. kr. to finance a citizen's counsellor that the municipalities can then use. In other words, will it help the citizens who get in trouble and the relatives who get in trouble that DF is talking about? How will they help? And how are these citizens' advisors gonna be employed in the municipality? And isn't that just, excuse me, fire extinguishing? Because the damage has been done once the citizen's counselor steps in. I come from the municipality of Slagelse, where we have a citizen's adviser, and she steps in after a long period of time, when the damage has been done between the municipality and the administration of the Anke, the Citizen's Advisor steps in. Can the rapporteur say anything more about what the rapporteur said about citizens' advisers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180259	Yes, I could actually talk for a long time about citizens' advisers, because that is something that is really important when it comes to supporting the individual citizen in the meeting with the municipality. We would have liked it to have been rolled out to the whole country and that there had been some precise enclosures. With what is really important to say, the citizen's adviser must be impartial, that the citizen's adviser must be independent in relation to employment in the municipality, so that he can be the citizen's shop steward in the meeting with the municipality. So the citizen can talk to this person and ask: is it true what they say when they come and want to cancel my help? Is it true when I get this letter from the municipality that they say it like that? And the citizen counselor can also contribute to the mediation. In this way, the citizen's counsellor can help the individual citizen. But it can also help at the overall level to make the municipality and especially the municipal council aware of: Where are there special areas we need to tighten up? Where are there particular errors? Are there errors in particular ways of running things or in certain departments? There is good experience of this around the country, and it will be something that will be able, overall, to help in supporting the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180405	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180408	Thank you. It is very similar to what is also happening in the municipality of Slagelse. However, the question was about what DF points out, in other words how it can help the citizens who have got into trouble and the relatives who have also got into trouble. The damage has been done when you go to the citizen's counselor. It's burning, and now we're trying to turn it off. Excuse me, but that will be the function of the citizen counselor in relation to the individual cases that the citizen counselor has to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180440	I do not think that we fully agree on the function of the citizen's adviser. The citizen counsellor has a function in the first meetings before the case goes to the appeal body, to the Ankestyrelsen. That's where the citizen counselor sets in and tries to mediate between the municipality and the citizens and make the citizen better. It can be said that when a municipality has made a decision to deprive some help, it is not certain that in this situation the citizen counsellor can help so much, and that is also why I, on this platform, also indicate that we have very much sympathy for the content, and that in fact we also need to tighten up the local authorities' practice with some of these tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180516	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208180529	Less than four weeks ago, the Parliamentary Social Committee held an open hearing on legal certainty for people with disabilities. It has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs and by the Minister. I think that if anyone was in doubt when we started I didn't really think myself in doubt that legal certainty is a bad thing, then at least there wasn't a second in doubt when the hearing was over. The hearing was serious in the sense that we had rolled up the huge personal and human consequences when people who need support and help do not get it, and at the same time it showed a picture of a situation, I think, quite unacceptable, in which a great many citizens do not get the support they can rightly expect, as they are entitled to it under the law. In other words, it is grotesque when you go in and look at the conversion rates several people have mentioned them, but I would like to mention once again that in some areas it is so that if you complain about a case, it is about fifty-fifty whether you win it, because in half of all cases, whether we talk about children's or adult disability, it is simply a wrong decision. And then, when I've discussed these issues, I've seen some people say: well, they're the only ones who get charged. No, it is not, because the practice studies carried out by the Ankestyrelsen show that and here I would like to quote the Lawyers' Society as a credible source... that there are almost as many errors in non-complaint cases as in those indictment. This means that the situation is extremely serious, because apart from the fact that the decisions taken in the cases complained of are, for each other, grossly wrong, it is also the case that there are a lot of citizens who naturally find it difficult to complain precisely because of their disability, who, if they do not have any active relatives, can count on them not to get what they are entitled to. One of the speakers at the hearing had it, I think, important point that, if we now hopefully soon have to reorganise the disability area after the evaluation that is under way, it is absolutely urgent that we have a reform of legal certainty. She said something in the sense of: what is the point of changing the law if it is not respected anyway? That is why it is extremely important that we discuss legal certainty. I think it is a good thing that proposals are being brought into this Chamber, thank you for that, with concrete proposals as to what we can do. I would say that I think the proposal for a legal certainty fund is a good one. I can hear that the Minister does not quite believe in the financial incentives, and I agree that not only can it do so, but I nevertheless believe that it would have an effect if it were so that the municipalities knew that if they put pressure into the system, it would not be cheaper, but at best the same thing, and for my sake also liked a cost, so that they could be sure that someone came after them if a wrong decision had been made. I think that would actually affect them. It is good because it provides compensation for the citizens. What good is it if you have not been accompanied for six months when you were entitled to it? Then it is clear that it does not help in the sense that you get financial compensation, but it is a cautious little patch on the wound. And then there is the good thing about the fund that, at least as the Lawyer Society has described it, it has been put together in such a way that it can help people get legal assistance. We think this is a good proposal and we can support it. We also think that it can be sensible with suspensive effect. One could also go the other way, which I had a few questions for the Minister, and perhaps use the warning clause that has been made and which we on the Enhedslisten have previously suggested that § 107, § 108 and § 85, i.e. the clause on the provision of accommodation and the paragraph on social education assistance, came under. It sounds as if there is no majority in favour of the proposal, but I think we should try to see whether we can all - or at least a majority - fail to produce a report that points forward and very precisely tells the government that we are appealing for it to be so that, when we are going to do a reform in the field of disability, which I hope and believe will be a major reform, we must also look at legal certainty together, because at least this must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181038	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181040	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for your support for the proposal. However, does the rapporteur not agree that we should actually have action now? As far as legal certainty is concerned, it has been going on for a long time, and we have taken some initiatives, among others. With the early warning system and other initiatives too, but there is really, really, really a need for more. But I would really like to ask a question, because the Enhedslisten supports it and, as I understand it, the SF also supports it, and radicals support it, too, and that is very good. But what happened in the financial law negotiations? I could understand that it had also been raised in the financial law negotiations, but apparently it was shot down, or what? So, is it the government that doesn't want a legal security fund? Because you've been sitting there three parties that have really been able to beat a blow for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181140	First of all, yes, I believe that we must act now, what is now. I think that we should have legal certainty under control when we adopt new legislation, and I think that the point of the hearing was quite right: what is the point of adopting new legislation if it is not respected? In relation to the financial law negotiations, we have now not brought the issue of a legal certainty fund into the negotiations. There are many good things that can be brought in, and we have not brought them all in. We have brought in the question of ensuring that the citizens living in housing offers are accompanied, who today have great difficulty in complying with the legislation, and it should not be a secret that we are not particularly satisfied that it was not possible to have a permanent solution there. We had an experimental scheme for 2021, and I would say that is certainly better than nowhere to come, but we are certainly disappointed that we did not resolve the problem of people who are being drawn into their support for accompanying them in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181246	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181248	Yes, that is precisely why we need action now, including, you might say, either with suspensive effect or to extend the early warning system and then the whole area of legal certainty. Because I think it is a pity that there have been so many parties and would like to make an extra effort that not much more has come out of it in the area of disability. But I have to understand from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: how do we proceed now? Because I would like this to be put to the vote and then a joint report could be drawn up if it were. The Left and the Social Democrats must then be on display in that they do not want to guarantee the legal certainty of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181327	Well, there's always an opportunity to exhibit someone in this thing. I'm not sure that's the solution. In other words, we think it is a good proposal and we are happy to vote in favour of it. There is, of course, a question of funding next time if it is to become legislation. I also have to say that I think it is worth pointing out that we actually have a government that has addressed those problems, which has been neglected throughout the period from 2001 until the change of government here a year ago. There has actually been a move and there is a willingness to go in and solve the problems. This does not change the fact that we must help to get rid of this, even with a government, because it is actually important that we act on it and that funds are being used to lift legal certainty for citizens with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181416	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181418	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has just said, and I was so pleased that we should not be scolding each other, but the rapporteur is just doing the scolding of the last governments that have failed to solve it, and that is how it can be. If the Left is invited to discuss legal certainty, we are happy to do so with DF and Enhedslisten. It's not like that either. But legal certainty is a very broad concept. I am thinking of legal certainty, that it is also about the fact that we have legislation that is defined very differently from municipality to municipality, and there is also some legal certainty that we need to look at, which is also one of the handles, and there are many gripes. One of the handles is what we are discussing right now, and in a moment we will be discussing the next one, which, incidentally, can each be fine proposals. But I guess it's also about us having a look at the legislation that is in place and making it so tight that you can't experience from one municipality border to another getting very different offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181526	Well, I sneaked in a bit of criticism from previous governments, that is true, especially of the one who introduced the municipal reform and who moved the handicap area over to the municipalities. I do not think there has been any real reason to praise the maneuver that was made there. Otherwise, I actually agree with Mr. Knox. Sten Knuth says that we need to have a look at this, and I really think that we should try to see if it is not possible to do some sort of overall legal certainty reform. I think the proposals here are very sympathetic and I have made that very clear. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to look at the fact that there are a great many different elements, and I actually share the view of the Minister that a very central part of resolving the issue of legal certainty is, of course, to ensure that the visitation that is taking place will take place in a completely different way from today. But if we could get together to make an overall legal certainty reform, that would be really, really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181628	There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. So we move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is the rapporteur for New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181640	Many fine words have been spoken from this platform, and some very specific speeches have also been made, but there is no majority in favour of resolving the problems, unfortunately, and I would actually just like to boil it down very briefly to what one of the other rapporteurs said in this area: why make legislation at all if you do not think it should be complied with? I understand that the majority of the Folketing is actually left behind and that it is possible to make the legislation, but that it will not actually help to ensure that it is complied with, and I think that is really sad. New citizens are voting in favour of this proposal, and I should like to say from the Liberal Alliance that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181724	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line. Now the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, is just allowed to round off the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208181750	Thank you. This has been an interesting debate. But I'm wondering. I am simply wondering why it is not possible for this to have 90 mandates. It is a question of citizens; it is a question of people, so it is simply unbelievable. And then you get the accusations from the Left about this, and I am actually very outraged that the Danish People's Party continues to table resolutions in this area. Yes! When I was elected to the Folketing in 2011, it was to make a difference, to help people and to fight for those who had also voted for me. It may not be possible to get the proposal through the first time. Then you have to try again, or you have to make another suggestion with other things in it. Now, we get some good suggestions from outside, you might say, organisations may be enmillion votes, it may be the Lawyer's Council and the Lawyer's Society; it may be ordinary citizens who turn to us every day and raise some issues in terms of whether we can find solutions in here. That is why, as rapporteur for the disabled, I have stood on this platform quite many times in order to make suggestions for improvements in the area of disability, whether it has been about suspensory effect, whether it has been for us to ensure that blind and partially sighted people could be included in the driving system, whether it has been for us to ensure and fight for blind and partially sighted people to have an escort system even after they have reached 67 years of age, or whether it has been for us to ensure that families with children with disabilities could have a holistic approach, or all sorts of other good legislative proposals. I think that's only good. And then you get a criticism of it, but I'm elected to this Parliament to make a difference. The problem is that, regardless of party color, regardless of block, you always have to find hair in the soup in order not to vote in favour. I have noted today that the Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives are at least not voting for this proposal, and I think that is really a pity. That would be of great benefit to the people it is about. It affects me in this work every single day to open my mailbox and read the tragic stories. It hurts me every single day. Or I can read about it on Facebook, and I can see how families fight. So it should be simple to ensure that we can solve it together and ensure that the people who need it get it and ensure that their everyday lives can be linked, that is to say give them the help they need, rather than it being a fight, and rather than hiring social workers or lawyers. I think it's sad, and I think it's sad. And that is where I am really hit as a politician, when I meet the families who fight for their children with disabilities. And then I meet people who have all kinds of things and who do not receive adequate treatment, or I meet other people who have a disability. We simply need to do better. When I get e-mails from Theis' parents, who are deeply concerned about their son, or from Liva's parents, or when we sit at the round table that many of our rapporteurs attended on Friday, and listen to those human fates, I just want to say that there is a need for action. And then they tell you, among other things. on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. But what does the Left bring? I mean, what does the Left have to do with proposals? I would like to thank all those who support this proposal and will help make a difference. As I said, we also raised this in negotiations on the reserve. Once again, we had the consultation that we have planned and that I myself have been sitting in the subcommittee to plan to get a great deal of focus on this area too, in relation to the fact that it requires action so that we hear them. So my prayer is just to everyone in here across parties, whether we should not soon find some viable solutions for them; those people who need a society that holds hands under them, so that they do not happen, that they are destroyed, end up deteriorating their disability, or that parents go down mentally. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182252	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182256	Thank you. I would just like to make it clear that I do not think it is a problem that the rapporteur for DF, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, has tabled a motion for a resolution. I just think it is really a pity that we keep standing down here with motions for resolutions after resolutions that do not move anywhere. I sincerely believe that I would like to enter into dialogue with the rapporteur for DF and all other parties in here on how to resolve it. That's why I said I was about to say off camera, but you can't say that, because you can't speak English in here outside the camera: let's sit down together, because I don't think this is a debate worthy of it. Nor do I think, as the New Citizens say, that it is worthy of a debate. I think this is going to trade, sorry, sorry, more about profiling itself. Why don't we sit down together? Why don't we get together tomorrow? The rapporteur could come by my office, and then we could sit down together and figure out how to solve this. Then I have a question: what does the rapporteur really think the people involved want: that we made a solution that made the case work in the first place, or that we did what I call a patch solution, namely that we deal with it once the damage has been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182405	Now the rapporteur is not so old in this House, and I have to say that we have been sitting together. We have been sitting together in several debates where things were carried on the table, and we have done so when the Left had the post of Minister for Social Affairs. So don't make it sound like we haven't been sitting together in a negotiating room trying to negotiate things. Well, we do. Listen, this could turn into something with the votes of the Left. But the Left does not make any proposals in this area. They're talking about profiling, but what does the Left really want in this area? Well, it's just a mystery to me. Others may be criticised for making proposals in the Chamber, and they may be criticised for making repeated proposals in the Chamber, for this has been done once before. But when there is no majority behind it, you put it forward again, and then you bring it to the negotiating table too, and I have done so in this case where the Left was sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182509	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182512	I mentioned several things in my opening speech, among others. to look at the legislation, among other things. to look at quality, among other things. to look at whether there will be a party hearing what needs to be done, among other things. to look at whether our case managers have the quality they need, among other things. To see if we might have some lawyers sitting on the Anke Board who could help us. There's also a task force. We'll wait for that in Odense. I look forward to that personally very much to coming in and looking at it. There are also BDO reporters who come down by and have a lot of good input on how to treat it here. So yes, I also have many good suggestions on behalf of the Left. However, I would like the rapporteur to reply to my question. It is actually very simple: what do you think the people this is about would like to have: that we solve things in the first place, or that we treat when the damage has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182552	It is hard to remember, but we do not use direct indictments in the Assembly Hall. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182557	Listen to this: one does not rule out the other. How nice it would be to get the right decision in the first place. But the fact is, it doesn't happen. Read the statistics, read about the human fates it's about, and you know it. So it's not either. Of course, you have to have the right decision in the first place, but what if you don't get it? Does it matter? Can you just square and break the law, because it costs nothing, and then these people can sail their own lake? No? Okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182633	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182637	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I do not doubt at all, and I do not think I have ever done so, that Mrs Karina Adsbøl really is passionate about this area and would really like to make a difference in relation to everything the rapporteur himself points out on the platform now. But perhaps I feel a little bit that the rapporteur sometimes doubts the motives of our others, so that if you are not in favour of this proposal, it is because you do not care about the challenges of legal certainty. I just want to know if that is actually what the rapporteur is thinking, because I think it is a pity if we start to question each other's motives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182713	Well, I understand, and that's enough because sometimes I get a little tired every time you make good suggestions in the Assembly Hall, there are always some people who have to find hair in the soup so as not to have to vote for and help the people it's about. I mean, these are the people it's about, which I'm about, but when I'm told by a rapporteur that it's annoying that I'm making proposals, that is to say to help people, I'm gonna be indignant and angry, I'm gonna do that because this is heart blood to me. And yes, I think it is a pity not to take the good proposals that we get from outside into the Parliamentary Chamber and which could have a great influence in helping people in their everyday lives. Because the fact is that the Social Democratic Party could have supported this, after all, the Minister has mentioned in an article in Altinget that she thought it was an exciting proposal and that she wanted to look into it. But when it comes down to it, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182819	Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182821	Yes, because Mrs Karina Adsbøl is about people when you make this proposal. For me, it is also about people when I believe that strengthening the welfare economy of the municipalities can make a difference. It is also about people when I believe that the evaluation being carried out right now will be able to make a positive difference. I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur believes that the only way to strengthen legal certainty is to adopt the proposal put forward by the rapporteur himself. Does the rapporteur think that this will solve all the problems? Does the rapporteur think that providing compensation to people who do not receive the help they need will solve all the problems in the area of legal certainty? Or does the rapporteur recognise that there may also be other things, such as: the welfare economy in the municipalities and the evaluation we have started and what we are doing about citizens' advisers now with the Finance Act and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182912	No, as the proposal says, this will be an incentive to make the right decision in the first place. And there is much more to be done than our motion for a resolution. But it is a very good proposal that could give municipalities an incentive to make the right decision, which everyone is talking about, in the first place, because you would then know that you are not just free to run people over. I often meet people in my everyday life who say: Why can it be that as a municipality you can just break the law? Well, they're really wondering about that, and I can understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208182952	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183006	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183028	A few minutes ago we discussed motion for a resolution No. B 49, which addresses the challenges of legal certainty in the field of disability in particular. The resolution we are about to discuss, B 70, has the same purpose and background. Thus, motion for a resolution B 70 proposes that, during this parliamentary year, the government should introduce a compensation scheme to benefit citizens who experience procedural errors and delays in social matters. The scheme must consist of four elements: firstly, a daily fee of DKK 500. per 24 hours, the municipality exceeds a processing period; secondly, compensation to the citizen corresponding to the municipality's saving when the municipality has made a wrong decision; thirdly, compensation to the citizen when the municipality has spared nothing by making a wrong decision; and finally, fourthly, an extended use of suspensive effect. As many of the issues raised here in the motion for a resolution are the same as in the motion for a resolution. B 49, which we have just finished discussing, I will not repeat myself, but just emphasise a few key points. There should be no doubt that I fully agree with the concern about legal certainty underlying the motion for a resolution here and for B 49. However, as with B 49, I do not believe that the resolution contains the right tools. Firstly, the motion for a resolution, like B 49, will have major economic consequences and the proposers do not indicate where the funding is to be found. If the money is to be found on the already pressured budgets of the municipalities, we run the risk that the effect of the resolution will be the opposite of the intention, namely to reduce legal certainty. Secondly, I do not think that penalties and daily charges are the right way to go. I believe, on the other hand, that we will achieve better legal certainty by supporting municipalities with the clear objective that citizens must have a proper decision for the first time. That is what we need to use resources for, and not to punish. This is because, thirdly, it is questionable whether the introduction of compensation will have any effect, whether it will create an incentive that makes a difference. For example, the retroactive payment of current cash benefits has: In the case of benefits, there is a significantly lower rate of change in the area than in the area as a whole. I fully acknowledge that in certain situations there may be a need for a raised index finger, and it can be lifted by the Ankestyrelsen. It is certainly part of legal certainty. However, the raised index finger must be followed by dialogue and support to do better, for example. through targeted task forces in the municipalities. These are initiatives for which, moreover, we have jointly prioritised the means. If we turn to the citizen side, and that is the most important side at all, I also find it difficult to see that compensation will make a decisive difference. A citizen, for example. has been denied or reduced its social pedagogy support, does not need a small bag of money at the end of a long process of complaint. No, the citizen needs the municipality to make the right decision the first time. That is the right legal certainty. That is why a number of measures have already been taken to improve legal certainty. This concerns, among other things: on the funding provided by the 2018-2021 Rate Pool Agreement for an action plan to strengthen the quality of the case management in the field of disability and the Ankestyrelsen's learning initiatives. However, there are also initiatives as a relative consultant and better management supervision in the field of disability, which are part of the agreement we have just reached on the reserve. In addition to that, we have also just concluded a financial agreement, with a total of 135 million. kr. over a four-year period, which the municipalities can apply for, to establish and anchor the civic advisory function. The citizens' advisers are important because they can advise and guide citizens in contact with the municipality and supervise the administration of the municipality. Finally, I would also like to highlight the evaluation of the specialized social area. Here we are fully testing a model to describe specialisation levels on social offers to people with acquired brain damage and autism. The test must form the basis for us to discuss the possibility of making special plans throughout the specialized social field. It must both strengthen the specialisation of the offers, and it must strengthen the municipalities' visitation to the right offers, so that children, young people and adults get the right help from the start. And the government has not least provided a fundamental boost to the welfare economy of the municipalities in two successive municipal agreements, and we intend to continue to do so. We will not get better legal certainty from a system where we feed the dog with its own tail. We will achieve better legal certainty by means of a far cool move, by tackling the structural and by keeping the political focus in this House, but also by means of municipal councils, where we ensure that the municipalities have the necessary economy for welfare and where we support the municipalities as much as we can. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal, but thank you for bringing it forward and for the debate that I am sure we will now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183555	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183600	I understand, then, that the Social Democracy, the Minister and the Government do not want there to be punishment when someone breaks the law. That is what the Minister is saying, at least in this area. The Minister would therefore very much like to legislate in this area, and the Minister would like to stand by and say all the right things, but if the law is to be observed then the Minister supports it. You don't want to make sure. I would like to ask the Minister something: if the municipalities were to make an effort and dealt with properly for the first time, would this compensation scheme not be needed at all? In other words, although the Minister and the government voted in favour of this resolution, and if the municipalities just tried me, it would not be put at risk at all. Wouldn't the Minister agree with me on that yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183655	It would be really, really great if the reality were as simple as it is sometimes reduced to being when we stand here at Christiansborg and discuss, i.e. if you just made an effort out there. I do not know what Mrs Mette Thiesen imagines in relation to the thousands of case workers who come in every morning, and now a number of them are working from home to deal with cases. What does Mrs Mette Thiesen think they are doing? They sit and have their thoughts elsewhere and are on social media while they are working, or they have come in with a basic idea of how they can make as little effort as possible in relation to the vulnerable citizens they are going to sit across from. Because if it is the basic attitude, or the basic understanding, that is how the municipal case managers in this area act, and that is the attitude they meet at work with, namely that you do not make an effort, and that it is just something that you have to go with, we are at least in two very different places. It's never good if you're trying to agree on something. There are too high rates of change, and there are too many citizens who cannot get the right help for the first time, but that it should be about someone having to make more effort, I find it hard to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183805	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183807	I guess it's almost a sport for the current government to answer bypass. We have seen it earlier today with the Prime Minister, who could not reply to anything and answered bypass, and now, unfortunately, the Minister of Social Affairs is doing the same. I asked a very, very specific question. If the municipalities were properly dealt with for the first time, would there be a need to compensate the citizens who had been caught up in wrong decisions? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183833	If the municipalities were able to handle matters properly for the first time, we would not be standing here and having neither this discussion nor the discussion we had during the previous resolution. I have to say that when we stand here and discuss a subject that concerns us all incredibly much, in the second hour, and it must be presented as if it is not a debate that one wants to enter from the government, I am even more tired and I am tired in advance it is no secret. Because I really don't think that's a proper way of debating. I do not have any figures on how many questions I have answered. In fact, I believe that there were questions from all the rapporteurs who were present in the Chamber, so I would like to be excused from being told that I should not have to answer questions in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183911	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208183913	We see that there are large conversion rates, and we have received numerous requests for this. I remember, in fact, that Evald Krog, a good fighter who unfortunately is no longer here, wrote to us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Home Affairs that the municipalities were free to break the law without any consequences. I would like to hear the Minister now that we see that there are so many violations of the law in this area. The Minister says it is important to get the right decision in the first place, and nobody disagrees with that, but the fact is that this does not happen. So how will the Minister ensure that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184018	It is very quickly going to be very black and white when we discuss it here in Parliament. And I understand that I myself have here the testimonies that enmillion voices have collected and sent to us, and I assume that you have also read them. You get affected when you read this; you get sincerely sad that it has to be a struggle for so many to get help from the system set up to help them. But it is not the same as the wrong decision being made for the first time in all cases. There aren't agents around in all of our municipal administrations who fail to make an effort and scale and waltz around with this. But there are too many mistakes. I totally agree with that. And I have pointed out today, also in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, that this government believes that some fundamental structural changes need to be made to make the right decision for the first time. It is about ensuring that there is the right specialized knowledge out there or a recognition of where your own knowledge falls short and where you need to draw on more specialised knowledge in order to provide citizens with the right offers. And it's about there being a proper welfare economy out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184124	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184126	I do not think anyone has accused anyone in this regard, that is to say the social workers or anyone else. We know very well that social workers are under pressure from upstairs by municipal managers and others. After all, social workers cannot make their own decisions today, as they do today. But what will the Minister do when the legislation is not complied with? In other words, I am aware that no periodic penalty payments have been made to any local authority when they do not comply with the law. And so, basically, there is no legal certainty for the citizens in this, when you commit a crime against them, nothing happens, except that the municipalities have saved some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184208	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184211	I believe that it is absolutely crucial that we go to a place where the right decision is made for the first time in far, far more cases than we see today. And then we can discuss it, and that's what we're gonna do, what's the way to it. My silent point here today is that if what caused these mistakes was an economic incentive, then I suppose you would, for example. There was a lower rate of change in the cases of current cash benefits, where it actually has an economic impact on the municipalities when a wrong decision has been made, but we do not see that. So this thing about pretending there's one grab just doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184255	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184307	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution, who are from the new citizens this time. Like the proposal that we have just dealt with recently, B 49, this is about the legal certainty in the area of disability and social security, which I think we all agree is not good enough today. Like the Minister, I do not want to spend a great deal of time repeating myself, at least not too much on why we fully agree with what is the purpose of the resolution, namely strengthening legal certainty, nor on why we do not agree with the concrete means proposed. I shall confine myself to repeating the conclusion. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not believe that economic punishment for the municipalities and financial compensation for the citizens for wrong decisions are the best solution. We do not believe that this is the right way to use our resources and money. We would rather use the resources to secure as many correct decisions at first instance as possible, among other things. by supporting the municipalities' procedures, ensuring a stronger welfare economy and not least seeing thoroughly and coherently the entire specialized social area, as we do in the evaluation, including among other things. on the visitation of the municipalities and how to ensure that the right knowledge is present in the right place at the right time and much more. So, although we agree with the objective, we do not agree with the means and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184446	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184448	No, it is not surprising that the Social Democratic Party will not ensure that the legislation is complied with in this area, unfortunately. It should be something that everyone could support, but the government can't do that, I understand. I would like to reverse the problem a little. First of all, I would like to say that this proposal is about the compensation being paid directly to the citizens, both in terms of the time limits for the proceedings and in terms of compensation in general. But I would like to ask specifically: what about those who have been given the right help, but where the municipality suddenly goes in and takes that help from them? What will social democracy do there? For now the Minister is talking so much about having to deal with matters properly the first time. And we are in complete agreement with that. But what if the first case has been properly dealt with, but the municipality suddenly changes its mind and takes the help of the families who have received it? What does Social Democracy mean? Does the Social Democratic Party also believe that the municipality should be allowed to break the law in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184549	I think we should try to refer to each other correctly when we refer to each other. And now Mrs Mette Thiesen says that I should have said that social democracy does not care if the law is observed. On the contrary, I have said that we fully recognise that there is a problem of legal certainty and that we also think it is important to have more correct decisions. The Minister has also said this very, very clearly. We just think that there are some other ways there than those contained in this proposal. When it comes to citizens who are deprived of their help or turned it down, there are already some rules on suspensive effect in some paragraphs, and there are some other paragraphs where there are some rules on early warning. And it makes very good sense that, where it really has a consequence, there is also a warning or perhaps even, as there are in a few paragraphs, a suspensive effect. But then the question is whether it should be in more. At first glance, I think it has been very well hit now, so that in relation to the most intrusive things we have this early warning system, but that we do not necessarily have it in all areas. Because it will also cost money, and it will also mean that some people will keep a service, even if it is a perfectly correct decision that it may have to be turned down.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184659	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184701	Thank you. It is, after all, honest talk by the Social Democrat rapporteur that it is thought to be okay. I have a specific example myself with someone I spoke to the other day, Mette. They actually received help for the first time to her highly developed older sister, whom they take care of at home, but then the municipal employees had suddenly been on a course, and then they thought that there should be a completely different visitation to. And then the family went from 14 hours of help to 3 hours of help. Does the rapporteur really think that that is fair enough, or does the rapporteur think that it is to pull away the curtain under a family that actually promises the responsibility of caring for their disabled relatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184743	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184745	I have both heard about and met people and read lots of stories in the media where I don't think it's okay and where I think it's wrong decisions. And that kind of decision can also be brought before the Ankestyrelsen. Fortunately, there are some of the cases and it is good that this is how it is so intrusive and so important to have a disclaimer or a reduction in aid, that is to say, where it is particularly intrusive that you can keep the aid for a period of 14 weeks, as far as I remember. At least that's the point, which happens in the vast majority of cases, as I understand it, that you keep the help until you get that decision on the Ankestyrelsen. Fortunately there is already that system and I think it is a good thing that it is there in relation to these services of a very intrusive nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184839	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208184858	Thank you for the floor and thank you for raising the debate. I would also like to say to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who raised an important debate in connection with the previous resolution, that this is important to keep on holding on to discussing this area. In fact, I believe that there is a movement in it at the moment and that it is a movement that means that we really will have to sit down and talk, among other things. on the issue of legal certainty. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten had the pleasure of having a small victory last week when we helped tell the government that we should look at this with the 9 hours a week and the redress in this regard. So it's good to keep going. That is why I would also like to congratulate the proposals here and the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising these important debates. The basic aim of this proposal is to give the citizen a legal right, which means that the municipality must pay the citizen back if the deadlines set are not met. I must start by saying this, and I think we all agree that it is right, really important, that we ensure the legal certainty of citizens, the right time to deal with matters and also reasonable response times from the Ankestyrelsen. We are concerned about this. But I must also say that with the motion for a resolution before us, we are not quite sure that this is the right way forward. In fact, we do not want to go that way, because the proposal is unfunded and it is a patchy solution. It can also be a slippery slope in relation to other areas of welfare. This is true, for example. The entire job centre area. This would then be the next area where we were going to take some action against the municipalities if they did not comply with the rules. So it's a slippery path to have to punish the municipalities like this. I would like to say that we have also had this talk and that it is as the Minister says, that the right decision is much better for the first time. I think we're just a little bit away from getting there. That is why it is also important that we get together quickly and look at what else we can do in this area. The Minister also mentions the rate pool agreement and the fact that the action plan aims to strengthen the quality of procedures in the municipalities. I would say that this is probably the second or third time I come from Slagelse Municipality myself, and we also entertained each other with that last week that we have such exercises as this one. You just can't make it work, at least not properly. We have employees working hard on this. The question is whether they are capable enough and whether they have too many cases, so they simply too often rush through them. The question is also whether there is the right culture and the right well-being in the department where you are now. But it will be exciting to see the transition to making a proper casework the first time, and see how to tighten things up with the municipalities. We would therefore ask the Minister to invite us to a discussion on how to ensure legal certainty, how to clarify the legislation which is implemented very differently from municipality to municipality. These could be some of the things and some of the tools we are looking at very quickly, so we get to what we all want, namely a real decision the first time. We would also like to ask the Minister to give us an answer on how to ensure that the Ankestyrelsen gives some quicker answers so that we can repair what may have gone wrong more quickly. The Left cannot vote in favour of this resolution, but we are very happy to take part in some discussions on how to get to this point with the right decision for the first time. I welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives and say that they cannot vote in favour of the resolution either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185326	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185329	No, you know where you have left. According to the Left, we need even more of these Danes' time... the Danes who are trapped in the system... to sit around and discuss things that have been discussed for many years. The fact is, legal certainty is non-existent in this area. Moreover, I would just like to inform the rapporteur that it might be that the rapporteur does not know that in New Citizens we are going to close the job centres. They do not create value for anyone other than those who work there. So let's just make it clear. Then it is a matter of giving priority to local authorities. We have a clear view that priority should be given to an area such as this in the municipalities, for example. It is, of course, core welfare; it is fundamental that you keep your hand under those who most need it, some of the most vulnerable. Then you have to spend your money more sensibly and maybe drop some of these other prestige projects and everything else. In any case, this must be given priority. In fact, I would like to ask the rapporteur something very specific: is it the municipalities themselves who set the time for their proceedings? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185433-2	I would like to begin by thanking the New Citizens' rapporteur for commending the Left. However, I am not sure that the rose was quite as clean as the rapporteur said. I sensed a certain irony in it. No, it is not the municipalities themselves that determine the duration of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185458	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185459	Yes, it is in many areas. There it is the municipality itself that determines and writes these processing times. They are required to set procedural times and make them public, but it is the municipalities themselves that set them based on a lot of different things. So that is actually just what I want the rapporteur to confirm: the municipalities set these processing times, and it is of course their own responsibility to respect them yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185527	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185530	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, so we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208185556	We're back again. After all, this proposal is very similar to the proposals that the Danish People's Party has repeatedly made in this Chamber, including a compensation scheme for citizens who are mistreated in the social system. Unfortunately, New Citizens can see that it is up to them to get 90 seats in this Parliament to improve legal certainty. It should not be even and freely pay to break the law. There can be periodic penalty payments today if you do not comply with the legislation, but I am aware that no one has been given. This proposal then contains four initiatives. One relates to daily allowances for the municipalities if they do not comply with the time-limits for the proceedings, and I think that this relates precisely to the time-limits set by the municipalities themselves. In the Danish People's Party, a few years ago we actually obtained a majority for the municipalities to be required to publish these processing deadlines on the municipality's website. One was not obliged to do this on the municipality's website earlier; one had to decide where to do it, so it was difficult for citizens to follow it. After all, however, it succeeded in obtaining a political majority in favour of it. It is important that you, as a citizen, should be able to see time limits for processing. However, the municipalities which then do not comply with their own deadlines must be subject to a daily fee of DKK 500. per 24 hours, that is to say for the municipality's exceeding of a time limit for the proceedings, and the tax is payable to the citizens. And yes, it is quite reasonable that, if you do not follow your own deadlines, you may be faced with a tax which falls to the citizen. But this is not entirely black and white either, because it may well be that as a municipality you are waiting for an answer from somewhere else. It may be from health care, and it may be that you are waiting for a VISO report or something else. But in any case, if you are self-inflicted in it, you can say that I also think it is fair that you should, of course, be fined. The citizen must receive compensation in the form of a transfer of the full enrichment or saving achieved by the municipality by making an incorrect or unlawful decision, or there must be compensation to the citizen for non-economic losses caused by gross negligence and systematic and material errors in the proceedings committed by the municipality. There is also a desire for an extended starting point for suspensive effect when municipalities take away or reduce the social support granted, and this is something that the Danish People's Party has repeatedly put forward, including it is also included in the proposal on the Legal Security Fund, which we have just discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. And it must also be the case that when one's ability to function is unchanged and one still has the same need, one must be able to maintain the help that one has and not risk losing it. Unfortunately, we have seen numerous examples of this. In fact, at the time we were also able to implement the fact that when the disability car was reassigned, the municipalities would simply have to use a creed and a declaration of law when reassigned if the citizen had the same functional capacity. Then you could save administration and you could more or less save the casework on it. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that in real life and in real practice it is not applied at all to the extent that it could. In fact, I would ask the Minister to investigate this, particularly in relation to the beliefs and the legislative declaration by reintroducing disabled cars, because I think we had actually reached an agreement on this, and that is something that we should have followed up on. Citizens should not fight against a system. We need a system that benefits our citizens. Unfortunately, we see that it is not working as it is today. Nor are you properly guided as a citizen, and the law of legal certainty is apparently deeply buried. But in the Danish People's Party we are in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190018	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There does not seem to be any brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Vinther. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190033	Thank you. A few moments ago, we were discussing and we supported a proposal for a new legal protection fund in the field of disability and suspensive effect in the event of a complaint. We did and do so, although it may not solve the basic problem, but because it may be a tool for solving the current challenges, and it is not because they are new. There have also been several comments. Our current social counselling is based on the social reform and K. K. Steincke's Law on Public Welfare of 1933, which was intended to simplify the rules and secure the individual, because the rules at the time were interpreted very differently from municipality to municipality, and we must not quite pass that. The current proposal lies in the slippage of the previous proposal to ensure compensation for the errors that municipalities may make, and we are fundamental to the fact that serious cases of wrong handling should be able to result in financial compensation, also in accordance with the previous resolution. In relation to the overrun of time limits, the legislation already provides for compensation on the basis of the so-called speed principle, where practice is that a so-called qualified delay can provide compensation and we would like to see how we can work it into this proposal. But basically we are positive about making the municipalities responsible, and again: the basic problem we solve by the municipalities learning from their mistakes, and we would therefore like to see the annual discussion of the Danish map, which the municipal councils should have, become a genuine professional review, where each municipality should shed light on its own decisions and learn how to correct its mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190203	Thank you to the rapporteur. It does not appear that there are brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190227	Thank you. I would like to begin by acknowledging the background to this resolution. The stillders and I are very much in agreement that, in some cases, the municipalities jam the citizens when they are more or less consciously dragging the cases in the field of disability into delay and making wrong decisions where they are well aware that the Ankestyrelsen is going to redeploy them. The municipalities should be on the side of the citizens and make the right decisions for the first time for the benefit of the citizens, as well as respecting the deadlines for replying, so that the citizens receive clarity and the necessary help as soon as possible. That is just not the case in most cases, and it is, to put it mildly, unsatisfactory. But punishing the municipalities by giving them daily fines does not solve the real problem. The citizens really have more desire and need just to get the help they need and the right to in their everyday lives rather than punishment. Daily penalty payments to the municipalities will also only burden the municipality more financially, so that the welfare needs to be saved and cut elsewhere. That is not appropriate either. The motion for a resolution also calls for full compensation to be paid to the citizen when the municipalities make mistakes or exceed the deadlines. We are not in favour of this either. We would rather see the citizens being given the prospect that they could receive subsidies or benefits retroactively once the Ankestyrelsen has ruled that the municipality's decision was wrong. The focus must be on the frighteningly high number of erroneous decisions about the need for help for citizens. That is also why we are more in favour of a legal certainty fund, in which the municipalities are compensated by clear misdecisions, but where we ensure that the money remains and is beneficial both in the area of disability and in terms of legal certainty. In view of this, the SF cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190425	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190438	After all, the proposal here pursues the same issue that we dealt with in the previous paragraph. That is why, although it may be thin for a debate, I would like to refer very much to what I said to the previous proposal and not to repeat exactly the same thing at this point in the day. However, we fully agree in the Enhedslisten that we need to address the unreasonable lack of legal certainty in the area of disability and that we need to implement a series of, and very much like, coherent, reforms in relation to legal certainty. We discussed the issue of financial incentives in the previous paragraph, and again I think that we should, of course, be careful not to overestimate it, but on the other hand, I believe that creating economic incentives that drive the case and the decisions in the right direction actually works. I would like to take up one aspect that we perhaps did not discuss so much in the previous paragraph. That is the question of those citizens who do not complain. The organisation Lev launched here the other day a campaign, now it's Else's turn, which I really think hits very well. They describe Else, who has Down's syndrome, and who experiences being moved from his small secure accommodation offer to a large settlement offer with 42 citizens. She gets a letter from the municipality that now her 15 accompanying hours have been reduced because she lives in a room offer; therefore she must accept a reduction. It is said that this is the way it is produced in Else's turn: no one complained when the municipality moved Else against her will and no one complained when the municipality took her escort scheme. Else did not even know what a decision, an Ankestyrelsen or a specific and individual assessment was for anything. And the educators in the settlement offer didn't dare help. It gives a very good picture of • and it is not contrary to what the proposal here proposes that we should do more than deal with issues relating to those who complain and ensure proper legal certainty in the complaints system, so that we also have to do something in relation to those citizens who are unable to complain themselves. I think that is incredibly important. In relation to the specific proposals, I have to say that I do not think that they completely hit the nails. I fully agree with the intention. In other words, there are some considerations about such a dynamic starting point for the conversion rates. I can see that some point has been made: if one identifies that there is an area where there are particular difficulties in complying with the legislation, then it could be that that was where the throttle was turned. I am not sure that the daily penalty approach is right, and I am probably leaning more towards what we discussed in the previous paragraph with a legal certainty fund. However, I recognise that this is what we can do to strengthen legal certainty. Here too, I can hear that there is no majority in favour of it, but I think it is very important that we continue the debate on how to strengthen legal certainty, both in relation to those who use the system of complaints, but also in relation to those citizens who are unable to do so. So thank you for contributing to this important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190838	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190843	Thank you for that and thank you for raising the relevant issue of Else, because that is true. There is a huge challenge here, and how do we solve it? I myself have thought some thoughts, also because I saw, I think, it was a documentary precisely about someone who was abandoned by the municipality and was more or less confined and where it was not mandatory to inform anyone about people who are being careless and who are over 18 years old. Therefore, I have thought that we could introduce that it should be mandatory to inform someone if you are concerned. Here the educators were worried, but they didn't dare do anything. A mandatory notification obligation in relation to such things could it be a way to go? I mean, it's just a thought that I've been thinking. What does Enhedslisten think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208190946	I'm thinking there might be something right about that. In relation to the discussion about the role of the Social Protection Agency, we ourselves have in several contexts put forward the idea that it would be possible to extend the requirements of the social services so that they would not only have to report it to the municipalities when they saw that there were quite obvious errors in the search when they come out and meet the citizens who are in a settlement offer, but that they should also be obliged to report it to the Danish Social Protection Agency, so that it would not only be left to the municipality to decide that they have apparently misvisited, but that they should bring in the Ankestyrelsen. It is really only to say that we have to try to find some mechanisms so that we are better at discovering the errors where they are going. One last example I'm sure I'll be able to do. When a municipality finds itself overwhelmed in 66 per cent. It is disgraceful that no one is saying to them: how about looking at the rest of the citizens who have had problems in getting five days of protected employment? We need to find systems that help those citizens who are not in a position to complain themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191104	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191106	Yes, in the Danish People's Party we are ready, you can say, to be part of looking at how we can find some systems, because this is a relevant problem for the citizens concerned, but also in relation to the role that employees can play. The employees shouldn't be worried about saying anything here. They must have the right to express themselves, and they must also have the right to do so without being worried about getting fired. So I'm also thinking that if you made a mandatory notification, if you see something, you have to notify someone that it could be directly to the Ankestyrelsen or the Social Inspectorate or anyone else who would have to act in this area. However, I look forward to further dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191151	I think these are fine considerations. This is, of course, primarily about the legal certainty of citizens, but there is also enormous pressure on the case workers the Minister mentioned just now: what is their work situation and what is the pressure they are experiencing? And there I think it has to be the citizens first that's what is absolutely crucial in terms of legal certainty, but if we can find some systems that also support the case workers in solving the difficult task without experiencing massive pressure from above, then it will be really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191222	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And then the rapporteur for the proposers is ready. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191231	Thank you so much. We have one of the world's highest taxes in Denmark. Actually, I think we're almost number one. Nevertheless, rights are something to which citizens must complain. Politicians seem to be indifferent, for nothing has happened during successive governments and municipal councils. Since the first statistics in 2013, it has only got worse. I have been working on the area for a few years now. I've heard a lot of personal destinies. And they make me wonder if the welfare system built up in Denmark really helps those who actually need it. In all of this, what is clearest for me is the example of Rasmus. Rasmus was 18 years old. He had his whole life ahead of him, but he was let down, not just once, but several times of the system that was actually supposed to help him. His family spent his last time fighting. I'm afraid Rasmus can't be here today. Rasmus lost the fight against cancer in September of this year. He was 18 years old. His brother Daniel really wanted to be here today, but he couldn't because of corona. This proposal has been made with the help of both Daniel and Rasmus. Rasmus lost the fight against cancer. He was one of the most brave and strong people I've ever met. That is why I continue to fight to ensure legal certainty. I'm fighting for families that are so hard-pressed not to spend their time fighting the system. For that time they must spend in their family with the needed help. In 2019 42 per cent was spent. of the appeal proceedings illegal. It is almost half of all complaints where complaints are successful. I've known Camilla for a while. She struggles to get help for her son with infantile autism so that he can get out and get an education and a job, for that is what he dreams of. But the case is indicted and repatriated to the municipality. She finds that the municipality does not comply with the processing times. In fact, it is not just free for the municipalities not to comply with the processing times. This can often mean a real saving for them. In the period 2013-2019, the Ankestyrelsen found several cases where the case was so incomplete that the complaints ended with a referral back to the municipality. The number of returnees has increased from 16 per cent in the period. at 32%. We should not think that the problem is simply limited to those who complain, that is to say the complaints. For the Agency's own samples, there are serious errors in 25-50 per cent. of the cases on which citizens have not complained. It goes without saying that citizens who never complain will often be the most vulnerable; those whose voice is never heard; those who do not have the profits to fight against the system. For some matters, the conversion rates are over half. The publication of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior from earlier this year shows that the conversion rate in the children's handicap area from 2016 to 2018 varied from 46 per cent. 52 per cent. The other day, I talked to Mette. Mette has a deeply evolutionary older sister who she and her husband want to take care of at home. The sister needs help 24 hours a day. Cognitive, she's like a child between 3-6 months old. Yet Mette and her husband have had to fight from 3 to 10 hours of help. I have such deep respect for Danes as Mette, who take responsibility and take care of their close, and they deserve all the help they can get. But, unfortunately, Mette is not the only example. When the municipalities illegally take away a family with disabled help, the family must step in and work harder to make everyday life work together. And we can only guess how many families with a disabled person have broken and ended up in divorce because of the eternal struggle against a rigged system. But, unfortunately, rights are often something to be complained about, and we must do something about that; something that is both ambitious, consistent and not another patchy solution. That is why we in the New Citizens' Party tabled this resolution with four very concrete proposals and no more patchy solutions! Among what we are proposing is a daily fee of DKK 500, which the municipalities have to pay to the citizen by exceeding the time limits for processing proceedings, and compensation for the citizen, which consists of the full savings made by the municipality by making a wrong or unlawful decision. This is necessary because none of the initiatives taken by successive governments works. Neither publication, more decisions in principle nor task forces have helped. The numbers don't lie. This is still going the wrong way. If politicians do not want to be honest that the rights to help often exist only on paper, then they should at least acknowledge it now. If politicians want to remedy the problem, they should vote in favour of this proposal. If politicians continue to do nothing, they should vote no. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191835	Thanks to New Citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201208191851	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 9 December 2020 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
