ParlaMint-DK_20200624130004	The meeting is open. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: Report on the implementation of a report on the handling of covid-19. 4. The account will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624130021	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 25 June. We start with a explanatory statement from the rapporteur, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624130041	Thank you, President. We are in a very serious situation in relation to the Commission's proposal for a so-called recovery plan for the euro zone and, in particular, in relation to southern Europe. What is serious, of course, is how Corona has hit especially those countries, those economies that had not reformed in time and were ready for the shocks that can be caused by this kind of thing. However, at least as alarmingly, it is of course on the other hand that it is being set up to take even more power, even more money from the Member States and centre it in the EU system. We have discussed this on several occasions in the Danish Parliament, but for various reasons the government has wanted the discussions we have had in the European Committee to take place behind closed doors. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think it is important that we also have this discussion today, partly because the virtual summit took place recently and is therefore relevant to getting the Finance Minister's newest deserter out of it, partly because citizens need and have the right to know what is going on with the drastic changes that are being proposed. If the Commission's proposal as it stands is adopted, Danish taxpayers will have to send 6.7 billion. kr. more on to the EU. This is an increase in the contribution of 34 per cent. In relation to the figures supplied by the Ministry of Finance itself, and of course we cannot accept that at all. So we look forward to hearing what the Minister of Finance has to report from the EU battlefield, and hopefully he can bring good news.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624130227	Then it is the Minister of Finance for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624130235	After all, the whole purpose of the European Union is to avoid battlefields. That was the idea when the European Community and the Coal and Steel Union were created at the time. But that does not change the fact that, of course, when it comes to the EU budget, we have some real, different perceptions in the countries of what is the right solution. That is why I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the EU Recovery Fund and the government's position on it. As you know, the recovery of the economies of the EU countries is a key political issue in the light of the serious economic crisis caused by the covid-19. This applies both at home and in the European Union, where some countries in particular are hard hit. In particular, recovery in the EU has been discussed on a regular basis in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, not later than 16 June, when the government received support from a majority in the committee for our proposal for a mandate on the recovery instrument and facility, as well as the EU's multiannual financial framework. I would like to thank everyone in the European Committee, both those who helped to give a mandate and also those who did not, for a good and constructive dialogue. Briefly on the facts of the case: the Commission's proposal provides for a recovery instrument which provides funding through the EU taking up joint loans of 750 billion. EUR, on the one hand, a number of EU budget programmes which allocate these funds with the focus on the countries most affected by the crisis. The biggest programme is the so-called Recovery Facility, and that is also one of the issues we are discussing today. On 9 June, I had a discussion on the proposal for recovery with my colleagues in the Council of Finance Ministers, Ecofin, and on 19 June the Prime Minister had a discussion with the other Heads of State or Government at the European Council. The European Council is expected to meet again over the summer for further negotiations and a possible agreement. The discussions so far have shown that the EU countries have very different desires for recovery, and it is therefore still unclear what can ultimately be agreed upon. For the time being, a number of issues have proved to be central. In particular, it concerns the balance between grants and loans. Germany and France argue for their joint venture of 500 billion. EUR in grants, but is judged to be fundamentally able to support the Commission's proposal. Several southern European countries want a higher level of subsidies, and then, as you know, we are some countries that want a facility based on loans and not grants. The issue of the duration and temporary nature of the facility is also central. The proposal provides that financial assistance may be granted until the end of 2024. Some countries want long-term or permanent measures in the EU, which involve common debts for grants and thus transfers between countries. Other countries consider that the facility should be a short-term crisis instrument such as: will only run until the end of 2022 and will ensure the temporary nature of the facility through e.g. a clear sunset clause so that the facility expires, unless the Council decides to extend it. Some countries also stress that the facility will be a one-off measure which will not set a precedent for similar arrangements in future crises. The size of the recovery facility is also a key issue because while some countries are deemed to be able to support the proposal, a number of southern European countries want an instrument which is considerably larger. Other countries believe that the size of the facility can and should be significantly reduced. They point out that the Commission itself estimates that only 30%, i.e. Approx. 175 billion The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 250000. The distribution key is also an important theme. The proposal provides for the allocation of aid according to a key which takes account of the size of the country's population, economic activity per year. population and unemployment based on data from 2015 to 2019. Some EU countries question whether the key, based on pre-crisis figures, adequately fulfils the objective of addressing the countries most affected by the covid-19 crisis. It may, however, be difficult to reach agreement on a modified allocation key, because more support for some countries by nature means less support for some others. Finally, conditions for financial assistance are an important issue. Countries applying for grants and loans must draw up a recovery plan with measures to get the country out of the crisis. The Commission, which involves all EU countries, must approve the plan of the beneficiary country and the payment of financial assistance takes place as the country achieves milestones and objectives of the plan. A number of countries generally support the Commission's proposal. On the one hand, there are countries that want a softening in terms of more limited conditions, and on the other there are countries that want clear conditions in terms of reform requirements, etc., especially in the case of subsidies. I therefore come to the position of the government as well. The government, as I have stressed repeatedly and throughout the process, is extremely sceptical about common debts for subsidies. As a new and far-reaching step in EU economic cooperation, this will involve debt-financed transfers between EU countries. There has been a lot of discussion both in the media and in the Folketing about whether the government should have changed its mind on this issue, and I can say that we have not. The government's basic position is the same. The government, as we have said and written all along, is extremely sceptical about common debts for subsidies. That was the position of the government in the past, and it is today, and it will be in the negotiations we are going to hold. At the same time, the reality is that this is a debate in which the task is to find a compromise, not to veto it. This has also been clear throughout the process. We have therefore had a process in which we have translated the government's position into a more concrete Danish negotiating mandate in order to secure the support of a majority in the Folketing, and in this respect, of course, I would particularly like to thank those parties who have helped to give the mandate. The mandate implies that we in Denmark support a recovery facility to help restore the economies of the EU countries and maintain their responsibility for sound economic policy. Solidarity and accountability must go hand in hand. On the Danish side, we attach great importance to the fact that the largest possible share of the facility's funds goes to loans on attractive terms and that the grant part is reduced accordingly. We attach great importance to the fact that the recovery facility will be temporary and a one-off measure that will not set a precedent for similar actions in future crises, and we will work for a clear sunset clause so that the facility expires at a certain time, unless the Council decides to extend it. We also attach great importance to the fact that financial assistance is targeted at the countries most affected by the covid-19 crisis. And, as something very important, we attach great importance to the fact that the funds must contribute in particular to the green and digital conversion. A recovery with great focus on green transition and climate neutrality will benefit Denmark in more than one sense. In addition to contributing to the achievement of the EU's climate objectives, a recovery that accelerates the green transition in other EU countries could involve a high demand for Danish competences, knowledge and products. It benefits Danish jobs as well as growth and prosperity in Denmark, while at the same time helping to contribute to a green transformation of Europe that is needed. I am very pleased with the mandate given to the government and supported by a majority in the Folketing. The mandate provides the best possible basis for the government to draw a compromise in the matter as far in Danish direction as possible. That's the job. That is what the government is working for, and that is what we hope we can agree with the other countries on at some point when the Heads of State or Government sit together and the time is ripe for a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131116	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131119	It all sounds very rewarding, I would say to the Minister for Finance, but the truth is that we have no idea what the government really wants. Yes, you would like to have contributed to the recovery fund down below 750 billion, but how much? In other words, it is interesting to see a finance minister, even before the negotiations have started, throw the towel in the ring and say that the veto will certainly not be involved. That is also the very sure way to know that we are being pushed around by the others. If you are not willing to stand firm and say, for example, that the Danish contribution to the recovery fund must not be more than 1 billion or 1⁄2 billion or more, maybe just zero and then loan projects, then you are just subject to the will of the others, and the others here are probably Germany and France in particular. So I have to say that it is an incredibly feeble attitude that I find the government manifesting here. And that is why I really think that the Minister of Finance owes the Danish citizens and probably also part of his own electorate a clear answer: what is the pain limit for how bad an agreement the Minister of Finance will come home with from Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131221	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131223	I think sir... Morten Messerschmidt is one of the few in Europe who believes that the government has a soft attitude to this issue. I believe that the general impression is that the Danish Government, like the Austrian, Swedish and Dutch Governments, is very keen on the fact that we believe that there is a need for a solution of solidarity for a Europe hard hit by covid-19. Some countries, such as Italy and Spain, have been particularly hard hit. That is why we have already agreed on a number of initiatives for 4 000 billion ECU that is a lot of money. And now we are talking about creating an additional instrument that can also support development. But we basically think it is sensible that if you lend money to a country, that country should also have to pay back that money. And that is why we are extremely sceptical about setting up a scheme in which it has the character of grants to the countries rather than a loan in a more traditional sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131328	I did not say that in the first place there is one question per person. I see the rapporteur-general, but the rapporteurs know that. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131336	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance how well he himself thinks it is going, because a letter was sent from Denmark along with the other three countries in this so-called savings gang. And it was at a time when the Franco-German proposal was about 500 billion, and when Denmark then said that the grant share should go away it should be loans all. What has happened since then is that the Commission has played out that the 500 billion are all grants, and on top of that 250 billion have arrived. EUR in loans. So the Commission has moved even further away from the Danish position, even further away from it from the Franco-German position, and has therefore by no means responded to Denmark. What could explain that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131429	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131430	Well, that is an interesting point of view which the rapporteur of the Left is advocating, that is, that Denmark would be stronger if we stood alone. That's not my opinion. My assessment is that it is clearly in Denmark's interest that we work with the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden and other countries that may have views close to or similar to ours, in order to draw the final agreement in a direction which is as much where Denmark thinks it should end as possible. I am fully aware that there are strong forces in Europe who would like something other than Denmark, but I really find it strange that the Left believes that it would be to Denmark's advantage to stand alone rather than having allies in the fight we are engaged in. But it has to stand for the Left's own expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131520	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I would like to make it clear that there is only one question at first. But the Minister of Finance returns, and then the normal relationship becomes. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131531	In Denmark, 80% are employed. 80% of working-age population in work. In countries like Spain and Italy it is only 60%. of people of working age who work. It is clear that when there is such a big difference in how many people work in the countries, it also makes quite a big difference in the economies of the countries. You can't have a really good economy like Denmark if you only have 60%. of people of working age who work. That is why the poor economy in southern Europe is not the result of corona; it is the result of having social structures that do not appeal to people to go to work and pay taxes, etc. If Denmark does not want to grant subsidies to those countries because we say that they must find out for themselves that they must make some reforms so that they can earn some more money then we don't have to do it, do we? We have a right of veto, don't we? The only reason we can end up giving a subsidy to those countries, even though it would be stupid to do so, is if the government says: Well, well, then we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131637	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131638	I agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that the economic problems that a number of countries in the European Union had to face before the covid-19 hit, obviously have nothing to do with corona. But I also think it is fair and reasonable to say that the covid-19 has hit some countries very, very hard, and it was not something anyone could have anticipated or guarded themselves against. That is why it is not an argument in itself that some countries were standing and having difficulty before, that they should not then be helped now that they have come into further difficulties. But, of course, we have to do it wisely. That is also why the government is concerned that we will have an agreement in which we can help with solidarity and well-being. But from our point of view, the best way to do it is to do it in addition to what we have already put in place to give some loans that the countries concerned will then have to pay back. Other countries have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131743	I just need to clarify the rules here in relation to the first round. It is the case that there is a question from each party's general rapporteur. That is how the rules are. So I'm sorry, sir. Kim Valentin, I'm afraid that's not possible. But the Minister for Finance will come on later. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131759	Thank you. It's about knowing the rules. I believe that one of the reasons why there is a broad understanding that we need to help is precisely that some countries have been affected by disease which could, as such, have just as well hit us. It's a little random when it hit in the first place. That is why I think a lot of people think that we need to help. That is why it is also strange that in the award criteria one has, one does not take that into account. These have been set in advance, regardless of the disease. And then the Minister of Finance says that we cannot change that now, because when they are presented and you try to change them to take account of the corona, then those who lose something will say no. That's probably right. But that certainly raises the question: who presented the idea at first that this aid should be given not on the basis of Corona criteria but on the basis of some other criteria? Who got the crazy idea? Why are we in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131908	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624131909	Just for the sake of good order, I would like to say that the Danish Government believes that we should give support to those who have the greatest need. When the Commission comes up with proposals on how to provide support and we think that it could be better put together, we say so too, and we are also working to ensure that it is more targeted at those who have actually been hit by corona than on some other distribution principles. What I saw also said in my speech was that changing the move that has been made at that point is probably not something you do with a fingertips. Sir. Søren Søndergaard also has a long experience from European politics and from the European Parliament, and I am quite convinced that we will probably be able to agree that once something has been proposed and some countries have been put into perspective, they are not prepared to just give it up. This does not alter the fact that the Danish Government's position is that it would be more sensible to have some other criteria to pay out the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132011	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132012	I regard the Finance Minister as a good friend, I see him as a generous person and as a very talented finance minister. So it's a little bit excuse me for an anachronism that you have to experience the pride of being in such a greasy club that the government has joined. It is very good that we stand here in the Folketing and discuss 4 or 5 or 6 billion. kr., and that is also a lot of money if we look into the treasury of the Minister of Finance. I have no doubt about that, but it is a figure called 1.252 billion. Euro if the Ministry of Finance's own figures on the fall in GDP in the EU stand up to believers. It is, of course, the money we need to find in order for us to export our goods in order for us to have Danish jobs. When we talk aid packages in Denmark, we would like to see it done as soon as possible. Now we run the risk of the negotiations on the budget and the recovery fund taking a very long time if we do not get this going right away. That is why I would like to ask: what is the government's efforts to negotiate the budget and the recovery fund as soon as possible so that the money can get out to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132129	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132130	Well, first of all, let me thank you for the nice words of Mr. Jens Rohde. I can send the compliment back. I get it, sir. Jens Rohde as one of the members of parliament who, first of all, knows most about this matter and, secondly, is also deeply committed and dedicated to finding a solution. I'd like to say that I think that's good work. There is also something on which we disagree. Sir. Jens Rohde thinks the government is too greasy. I actually take it, even if it is not meant to be, a little like a praise when Mr. Jens Rohde calls me a fat pick because I do not think we should spend more than is necessary in relation to the EU budget, because there are, in fact, some major tasks that we have to do at home. On the other hand, it is of course important that we invest wisely in the situation that is currently in Europe, also in relation to the covid-19, which has hit some countries very, very hard. The sooner that solution can be put in place, the better; I agree with that. Jens Rohde in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132235	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132236	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance for standing here now and again presenting the government's view. My question is actually very similar to Mr. Søren Søndergaard's question. We have, of course, had a very large budget put up by the Commission, without having actually received a damage assessment or a real damage report. It's kind of backwards the way things are constructed. So it didn't exactly run with the payroll... so the criteria to look at the covid-19 sufferer haven't quite run when you're going down there? Now we could understand from the Prime Minister yesterday that you are only in the opening round. Then there is no reason why the four countries are now Finland may be pressing for us to actually see what the consequences of the covid-19 are, and then also to give amounts or loans or grants based on what is actually relevant to the damage that has happened, and then to press on precisely so that it does not just become the endless grant that runs almost like in a cohesion pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132343	Thank you. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132343-2	I very much agree, if I may take as a starting point the last thing that has been said, that we must be careful that this is not an eternity machine, but that it is an instrument that we are using in a very exceptionally difficult situation and which must also have an end, and I believe that both the Conservative People's Party and the government are very much in agreement on that. So we're very concerned about that. We are also very concerned that the money we send to help goes to those who have the greatest need of help, and there are the criteria that have been put in by the Commission, in our view, not the most precise ones, and that is why we are still working to make them as targeted as possible. I hope that will be the case, but as I said in my reply to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, this is not an easy exercise. This does not mean that the attempt should not be made, and the Danish Government, together with other countries, will do everything we can to ensure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132450	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132451	I would like to ask a question which has been asked before, but which I do not really think has been answered, namely about the government's pain limit. The government wants the sum of 750 billion. The euro must be reduced, and the government also wants the sum of 500 billion. The euro must be reduced, but where does the government's pain limit go? For example, can we see that the government is coming back and has accepted an amount of 750 billion? or 500 billion. The euro that is being given away?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132522	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132524	Now you can have different approaches when you go to a debate, but my basic view is that if you have told your negotiating opposite party in advance that you can see that there are places where you can agree to an agreement, you have shown all your cards, and I do not think that is a good idea. That is why it is important for the Danish Government to say that our task here is twofold. On the one hand, we must ensure that we can give help and support, particularly to those countries that are most severely affected, show the solidarity that is needed in Europe and help them to get back on their feet. We also have an interest in this from the Danish side, because if those countries go down with the flag, it is, firstly, bad for Europe, and secondly, it is bad for Danish companies to export goods to them. On the other hand, of course, we also have to do it wisely, and if you give loans, it is the loan that has to be repaid, so that it is not something that is a subsidy from Denmark and other countries to the countries in question that needs help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132631	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Now we move on to the negotiations and, therefore, to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624132643	Thank you, President. Here comes the gold, sir. Jens Rohde say. We have to assume that, if this is adopted here, it will be a true golden rain over southern Europe. What is the question is from where the gold is to come. For these are some astronomical amounts that we see as being set up. When the Commission presented its revised 7-year plan on 27 May, the figure was 1 100 billion. Euros, and since then we've got the plan "Next Generation EU" to 750 billion. euro. And as mentioned, the first part, according to the Ministry of Finance, will lead to an additional bill for the Danes of 6.7 billion. kr. And what can you get for it? Those zeros can be hard to figure out. It could, for example, be done. be just under 8,000 kroner. more annually paid to each pensioner, corresponding to an increase in the basic amount by approx. 12,000 kroner. It could also be just over 11,000 extra nurses or 10,000 primary school teachers, but no, with Mr. Jens Rohde's words: We choose to spread the gold over southern Europe. How do they intend to use it? Yes, we have tried on several occasions to get the government to guarantee that they are certainly not going to be used for, for example. tax reductions, because it would be a good thing if Danish taxpayers had to pay more for the South of Europe to pay less. Can you get a guarantee? No, you can't. Can the government be made to attach decisive importance to this? No, you can't. One cannot even be told, in relation to the areas that the government attaches crucial importance to what it is, the weight is. This is the baroque situation we find ourselves in, apart from the fact that the European Commission is using this crisis to really tighten its grip on the Member States. We will have joint debt, joint liability, that is to say a completely new institution in which, as a member of the club, we will be allowed to be liable for those countries that may not repay their debts. In relation to EU taxes and taxes, then, there we have, after all, formally been those who placed the money in the Danish Parliament on the Finance Act, etc. All this merely testifies to a project that is stalling towards becoming the United States of Europe; fiscal policy harmonised, debt policy harmonised, and the Danes left on the platform where the gold has been sent to southern Europe. There we say 'no' quite clearly; not because we do not have to help 'of course we have to do so, but here we have to ask the question: have all the aid packages that the European Union has implemented over the last 15 years helped southern Europe? Because if they do, how can it be that the Italian government debt was 120 per cent? • twice what is allowed in the euro when the corona hit? Why, then, is it that unemployment is still so significantly higher in southern Europe? Is this really the right way to go? We don't mean it. Therefore, with the agreement of the President, I would like to make the following: proposals for adoption The Corona crisis should not be used as an excuse to give the EU more power, and Parliament therefore rejects the following: 1. Common EU debt. 2. EU taxes. 3. Money gifts to countries without a refund requirement. 4. Increase in the Danish EU contribution. 5. That Danish tax dollars go to tax relief in other countries. V 101) Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133031	This is now part of the further debate. We're gonna start with it, and first it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133035	Thank you. I just want an explanation as to why sir. Morten Messerschmidt so consistently mentions southern Europe, so the gold goes to southern Europe etc. Player, sir. Morten Messerschmidt on some prejudice about lazy South Europeans who don't do anything? For Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows well that the country that will make the most of it with the criteria is not in southern Europe. So, what's the reason for that, sir? Morten Messerschmidt is trying to create that picture that's not right? Is it out of political sympathy with the Polish regime and their actions? Is that what's behind that, sir? Morten Messerschmidt avoids mentioning Poland?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133120	No, I have no warm feelings for neither the Polish nor Hungarian nor other regimes in Eastern Europe. My heart only beats for Denmark. Of course, when we talk a lot about southern Europe, it is because, for example, we are talking about southern Europe. has an Italian Deputy Prime Minister who cooks with how it could be nice if money came through the EU so that taxes could be lowered. It is a great provocation, I would say, that the Danish taxpayers are therefore expected to have to pay. We do not know what the final amount will be, but what we have been told by the government, compared with the MFF, is 6.7 billion. In other words, we must pay a considerable extra contribution to the European Union, so that some countries in southern Europe may then use it for tax relief. I can share the outrage from Mr. Søndergaard that we must also give to countries that are not hit hard by corona under a so-called solidarity umbrella, which is about corona. It only exhibits the whole gap represented by the EU project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133219	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133219-2	Let me tell you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, what I think is a provocation. I think it is a provocation to give money to a country such as Poland, which has an authoritarian regime that violates everyone, what to say, decent rules, most recently around lgbtq-free zones, etc. etc., and which consistently opposes the creation of rules on social dumping. On the contrary, the country is using social dumping rules to send labour to, for example: Denmark, where it is grossly exploited. It is the Polish regime. They don't need any money. Was it not more relevant to talk about them than about Italians or Greeks or Portuguese?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133258	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133259	Well, I just want to say that I am delighted that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti can work together to make the EU budget significantly smaller. This isn't a new problem. We have a new situation with regard to corona, but it is an old problem with regard to structural aid and agricultural aid, etc. It is a pity that we are so few members of the Folketing who share that dissatisfaction with the EU's redistribution circus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133325	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133325-2	I don't know what warmth Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has, however, said that Viktor Orban is a living hope for Europe, and it might be very interesting to deepen it. So that's what I'm gonna ask you to do in the first place, sir. Morten Messerschmidt about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133345	I'd love to. I believe that the way in which Viktor Orban has protected Hungary, and hence the borders of the European Union against the wave of migrants, is exemplary and serves to comply. And in this way Orban, at least his immigration policy, is the antithesis itself to Mr. Jens Rohde's heart mates in Brussels, who are really fiercely opposed to all kinds of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133411	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133412	Well, that's interesting. Then, at least, we were told that there is hope for the Orban regime, and that is perhaps why it was not mentioned. Besides, I didn't say, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that here comes gold. I'm sorry. I said that now comes the thunder (Morten Messerschmidt Bulderet?), and peace be with it, we are good at delivering against each other in these discussions. When Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says that aid packages have not helped anything in relation to southern Europe at all. That was point 1. Paragraph 2: If it has not had the full effect and unemployment is high, Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt looked at the fact that this could be linked to the choice of a German one size fits all-so-economic solution for the countries of southern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133504	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133504-2	Yeah, I think that sir. Jens Rohde, at least lately, is talking about some of the right things. In other words, what is the problem with the construction of the euro is that you let the Germans and now I say the Germans, but it is of course a wider circle of countries finance for an irresponsible economic policy and thus do not create the natural dynamics that are of course in a democracy in which, at least, who chooses to have another government, if the one you have is pursuing an irresponsible policy. Well, we had the best example in Denmark, when former Prime Minister Anker Jørgensen drove the country financially into the ground. The voters chose a different direction with Poul Schlüter, and that dynamic is completely lacking within the euro zone because the Germans are paying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133542	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Then I understand that, in good collaboration, the rapporteur's line has been changed a little, so here you go, Mr. President. Jens Rohde, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624133558	Thank you. As Mr. Morten Messerschmidt told me when I came up here that now the gold is coming over the Assembly Hall, not over southern Europe, unfortunately. I think we should put things in perspective. The single market accounted for 61 per cent in 2018. of Denmark's total exports of goods and services. This amounts to 662 billion. kr. Of these, 68 per cent went. to the four countries of Germany, Sweden, Great Britain and Norway, but also to Spain and also to Italy and also to France, all of which belong in top ten of our exporting countries. The internal market increases prosperity in Denmark, giving 500 million consumers easier access to Danish products and allowing 26 million companies to trade with Danish companies. According to the Ministry of Industry, the single market leads to a lasting increase in Denmark's exports of 7% overall, and Denmark today is 100 billion. kr. richer than if we were outside the single market. Employment and employees in Denmark benefit from the internal market, and more than 550,000 Danish jobs are linked to exports to the internal market, which helps to increase prosperity, and according to the Danish Business Authority, this means that real wages are barely 10%. It is higher than if we were not part of the internal market. It can be converted into an additional annual income of about 20,000 kroner. for a single adult in a rented residence, as it says here, or about 65,000 kroner. for an ordinary household with two adults in owner's residence. The single market creates employment throughout Denmark, and the Danish Business Authority points out that in all five Danish regions between 20 and 23 per cent. employment is linked to exports to the internal market. In the Capital Region, the vast majority of these jobs are in the service sector. In the three regions of Jutland, the majority is in industry and agriculture. The Danes are also better placed as consumers, for the internal market ensures, among other things, that Danes can cancel or return online purchases within 14 days, use telephone and data in EU countries as at home and obtain compensation from airlines in the event of delays. Now I don't usually go up with scripts here on the Parliament's platform, but I do, because these aren't my words, they're just the official numbers we know them. Now, according to another official figure, namely the Minister of Finance, we are at a loss of 7%. in the European economy, which amounts to 1.252 billion. euro. It is against these figures that we are now in the Danish Parliament discussing whether a budget can cost 2 billion, 3 billion, 11⁄2 billion. 6.7 billion, or whether we should feed countries that are heavily burdened by the debt trap with stones, or whether we should feed them with bread. The latter is not my quote either, because it is actually Wolfgang Schäubles. After all, I mentioned Germany before, and Wolfgang Schäuble is at least known in southern Europe as a very tough finance minister. He is no longer Minister of Finance, but President of the German Bundestag. However, I do not think that he is seen as the man who distributes gifts in the European context, as we constantly address it in Danish politics. We should not give gifts or throw gold rain over southern Europe, but that is not what this is all about. As I said at a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, I have followed German policy since Hans Martin Schleyer was shot and I can promise Parliament that Germany will not give gifts. That's not gonna happen. Germany is defending its own interests, and we should do so on the basis of the challenges we face here. It's not about us missing 6 or 7 billion. kr.; it is about the lack of 1.252 billion. kr., and that these are the ones we need to find to ensure continued Danish employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134016	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134017	First of all, in relation to the advantages of the single market, I would like to ask whether Mr. Jens Rohde can confirm that over 50 percent. Norway's exports also go to the internal market. And I guess that happens without Norway being a member of the European Union or these recovery packages, etc. That's why I don't understand why you make that clutch. In other words, even if Denmark had to leave the EU on a day of happiness, the internal market would probably still be there and all the benefits that are being able to export to one single market would still be there. And it is strange that one must necessarily be part of such an internal market in order to have the benefits too. - Sir... Jens Rohde doesn't see it well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134100	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134101	I do not know whether the Minister for Finance will come up to explain who is in the internal market at some point, but I know that Norway is part of the internal market together with Iceland and Liechtenstein. So where's Mr. Knox? Morten Messerschmidt gets the idea that Norway should not be part of the internal market, I do not know. But there is something that, in a historical perspective, has gone Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's nose by.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134124	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134125	No, I think it's sir. Jens Rohde, who speaks out to avoid the obvious point, namely that Norway does not contribute to the packages which Mr. Jens Rohde believes we should contribute to because we are part of the internal market. And that's why it'd be nice to know, given that Mr. Jens Rohde says that it is very important for Danish taxpayers to throw gold over southern Europe or Eastern Europe, or who should now have these aid packages, and connects it directly to the possibility of exporting to the internal market, about Mr. Jens Rohde is aware that over 50 percent. Norway's exports also go to the internal market, although Norway does not finance these aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134155	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134155-2	Well, if you're in a market and a club, you're also in my world picture financing it, and you have to stick to both inheritance and debt. So there is nothing farther from me than the cherry picking that the Danish People's Party stands for, and that is why I say that solidarity is not about gut feeling or about feeling like a better person than others. In this context solidarity is the safeguarding of Danish interests and jobs, and that is why I think it is possible to argue for both in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134227	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134228	If there is something similar in the Left and in the Radical Left, then it is the rule of law and the importance of its being respected, and there we have seen a rather boring trend both in Hungary and in Poland, not least reinforced here during the corona crisis. That is why I would like to ask how important it is for the Radical Left to ensure that countries that do not comply with the rule of law do not receive money from the Recovery Fund either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134257	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134258	I think it is important, and I think it is important to respect the rule of law. After all, I was a member of the Left when I was one of the first to shout about Orbán, because his regime, when I became a Member of the European Parliament at the time, proved to be something that compromised the European Union from the outset. I would say that the Danish Government, under Lars Løkke Rasmussen, was not too willing to always take this up at the Council meetings, but I think it is fine that we have come so far that it is actually in the paper and that it has a great deal of importance in relation to the negotiations that the government is involved in. And then you might ask whether we should place a decisive emphasis on this, but Jan E. Jørgensen knows that, as a starting point in such very complicated negotiations, I am fundamentally opposed to us making decisive weights as mandates. I will then simply agree to certain essential weights in order to compromise and to be part of what needs to be supported by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134410	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134411	I can then conclude that it is not important enough for the Radical Left to help pressure the government to at least threaten to vote 'no' if the result is that countries can look very much at the rule of law and yet get money from the recovery fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134428	I can only say that this is a new invention, perhaps rather like a lukewarm excuse for the fact that one suddenly found oneself in a place where I never imagined that I would see the Left in relation to the mandate. Because we have given the government a mandate once before the corona crisis, and there was no requirement there was no requirement at all from the Left. It was only a matter of 1%. It was only the decimals that were important for the Left there. All of a sudden, the rule of law has become a decisive factor, and it is fine if you move. We have then moved the government from a normal weight to a great weight and, as I said, my starting point is always that we should proceed pragmatically in the negotiations with 28, 27 or 26 countries that we are facing, and that is why we did not want any more decisive weight in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134516	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134518	I would like to ask the Radical Left rapporteur whether it does not naturally follow from the construction of the euro that there is also a common financial policy and a common equalisation policy. We also have a euro here in our country, it is called the crown, and we know that when you have a single currency, it means that money is transferred from the least productive to the most productive parts of the country. That is why we have adopted such a very complex system of compensation, which sends back billions. That is why I would just like to ask: when you have chosen to have the crown in the European Union, that is. Is it not quite natural, then, that we should also have a common financial policy and that we should have a common system of compensation so that those affected by the euro can actually, since they cannot be devalued or the opposite, receive compensation in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134614	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134615	I'm thinking that sir... Søren Søndergaard is waiting for me to come up with a contradictory answer, but Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows that I am a federalist, so the answer is. But I am not afraid to admit that the euro, in addition to that, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt says he has a design flaw. That is why it is not very robust, and that is why we have too many fire-fighting exercises in Europe. You have to take the consequence of what you mean, and I try to do so, even though it may be a difficult educational task, as Marianne Jelved once said: Whoever stands alone stands strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134653	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134655	Anyway, I couldn't dream of claiming that Mr. Knox... Jens Rohde thinks illogically or does things illogically; Mr. Jens Rohde didn't. Sir. Jens Rohde argues things perfectly logically: when you have a single currency, you also have to accept common internal transfers, otherwise it makes no sense, because you have taken a tool out of economic policy. Having said that, however, it must also be said that Denmark is not in the euro. After all, Denmark has explicitly chosen to be outside the euro. So, in the name of solidarity, can we not agree that when southern Europe, Eastern Europe, whoever is affected by health crises, we must be there, but structural errors must be financed by the euro countries themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134738	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134739	Yes, and then we just have the challenge that we are in the first and second stages of the euro, and that in a world of free movement of goods, services, people and capital we inherit each other's accidents. There you have a joint debt liability, because we get all the dynamics it brings, but you also inherit each other's accidents. That is why some were very concerned, among others. Svend Auken at the time, in order to create the internal market without having a political superstructure, and it has to be said that in some respects he was right that it would create some problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134817	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134818	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Jens Rohde for the presentation. I also normally regard the Radical Left as a reasonably economically responsible party, and Mr. Jens Rohde also presented some figures earlier on the internal market, which speaks for itself. But that's why I'm just having a hard time understanding sir. Jens Rohdes such a total printing of a blank cheque for the Recovery Fund, but perhaps the answer is that Jens Rohde is a federalist. But if you think about how much money is being given with this for the European internal market and think about which countries, is there not also a certain demand that there should be economic reforms so that they do not continue to have a very large debt? I also know that Merkel is very enthusiastic, who has put on the very long glasses and does not want to send countries into debt traps, but it is, after all, like Germany's policy. Why would Mr. Jens Rohde is not also demanding that it be loans with strong demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134922	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624134924	I would like to make special demands. I think we should create a new building fund. I've said that many times and not a recovery fund. This means that the money spent must be used to convert Europe into green growth. This is a radical demand, and we believe it is responsible not only for the economy but also for the climate. Then there is the whole reform trail. I am always so impressed that the Danish Parliament seems to know everything about the Italian economy, everything about the Spanish economy, everything about the French economy. I do not know much, but I am aware of some of the consequences that the German economic model, which is also the Danish economic model, had for some countries which have a completely different structure and which were dragged down on them after the financial crisis. It cannot be said that these countries did not carry out reforms. And believe me, the loss of prosperity that people suffered in Greece on the reforms following the financial crisis, I doubt that Danish employees and Danes as such would ever put up with. There is
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135034	Katarina Ammitzbøll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135035	Thank you. Greece is actually doing quite well, and I would also say that German banks made quite good money on that loan, and it was again Merkel who made a rescue plan. But I can't quite understand it anyway. Are we not just in the process of transforming Europe, to re-prioritize, to bet on that 25%? The Green Deal and the budget are going to do just that. Why, then, should a new fund, when we are already working on a very large project and wearing seven-year glasses in relation to making the EU's internal market up-to-date both digitally and greenly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135112	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135114	Because that fund is brilliant because it is much cheaper than boosting the budget over the seven years, because it is 30-year loans. This is an ingenious way of doing so, when you cannot get savings gangs to pay more in the EU quota, that you then have another opportunity to finance things. And the Radical Left's proposal to make funding that does not mean that we have to pay more in the quota is, of course, to dare to put on the federal glasses and then implement some EU taxes such as CO2 so we also have the funding in place in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135155	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135155-2	It's something weird that Mr. Jens Rohde keeps touring with the message that it's like not at all these countries' own fault that they're having trouble with the economy. There is something in the air about a virus that seems to hover over them; that is to say, there is everything else in the way that makes them have no money for the things we have money for in Denmark. Sir. Jens Rohde is aware that this is 80% in Denmark. In Italy and Spain, only 60% of people of working age work while only 60% do. Sir. Jens Rohde is well aware that we in Denmark, if we only had 60%. of working age who worked would probably have 100-200 billion. kr. less in the Treasury. Sir. Jens Rohde knows this very well. Sir. Jens Rohde's federalism obviously means that he must, like him, try to hide the fact that there are some countries in Europe that are not doing well enough and therefore do not have the same economy as we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135253	It stands for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's very own expense to say it. I'm not trying to hide anything. So, everyone knows that, historically, there have been some challenges and that there are some challenges with the economies of certain countries • several countries' economies. That should not be concealed at all. There's no reason for that. But it is also part of history that reforms have been made on top of the financial crisis and that some of those reforms have done very, very bad. And I am not sure that that loss of prosperity would have been accepted in the same way in Denmark. You kind of have to start with the reality that people live in. It's also usually a pretty good liberal hallmark. That's why I'm not trying to hide anything. I am just trying to make things work by not having an ideological but a pragmatic approach to it and by looking at how we can solve the problems because it also solves the problems for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135346	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135348	These are not historical figures that I am referring to today's figures. It is the case today that 80%. of people in Denmark of working age are working, and it is so that today it is only 60%. of people of working age in Spain and Italy who work. And that gives some huge differences in relation to the economy and the state economy in Denmark versus Spain and Italy • huge differences, i.e. whether it is 80% working or 60% working. And then, sir... Jens Rohde said enough and said: Well, we've done things down there. But it is still the case that they do not work for the same economy as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135424	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135425	I agree with that, in other words, it is part of the challenge. That's why I'm answering Mr. Knox's question. Søren Søndergaard, as I do, because I am not afraid to take the consequence of my position on this, namely that it requires a different direction. But I just want to warn you. In fact, that is why I would like the euro zone to be more robust; that is to say, it is for some places to have room to conduct an expansive policy when it is needed and elsewhere a contractual policy exactly as can be done in the United States. However, as soon as there is a drop in the sea that begins to spread some rings in the water of the European Union, the euro is under threat, and then we are faced with quite different problems. That is why I say: let us strengthen it, because then we will actually have the opportunity to proceed in a way that does not harm but benefits all of us, including the Danish worker.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135516	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. Collaborative understanding continues, which is why it is now Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135528	Thank you, President. The other day, when I was listening to the words of the Minister of Finance, I thought of one thing: in case I were Minister of Finance and I, Halime Oguz, were to negotiate a recovery package of 750 billion. The euro on behalf of Denmark, Mr. So Morten Messerschmidt is still unhappy? The answer is incomprehensible enough, yes. However, I have to say that if we are to combat the severe economic damage caused by corona, we need to work together and make compromises. This also applies, of course, to Denmark. European economies are shrinking, growth is falling and unemployment is rising. The Corona epidemic has thrown Europe into an economic crisis that could be the worst ever. So we are in a completely new situation and, of course, we have to deal with that politically. Instead of focusing on barren discussions, we in the SF would actually rather discuss visions and political substance, and that also applies when it comes to the issue of the EU budget and the recovery fund. It is usually the poorest who pay the highest price when the downfall hits. The shareholder will be fine. That is why we want a European recovery of the economy to be speedy. It is urgent because right now thousands of people are losing their jobs, and we will not be watching that passively. At the same time, we want the Europe that rises on top of the crisis to be significantly greener than it is today. In order to make the community greener, we must work together, and that is what we do best through a strong and solidarity Europe. And let us make it clear once and for all that a strong European Union is in Denmark's interest. It is now a cliché, but apparently there are still some who have not realised the point. If Italy's economy collapses, the Germans cannot sell their goods. If Germany's economy goes into slow motion, we cannot sell our goods to the Germans. This will cost a great many jobs in Denmark. It's kind of simple. After all, the advantage of having a common regulated market is that we can regulate it together and that it is politicians and not capital who sit at the helm. If we did not have a European market and a European community, well, then I find it very difficult to see how, for example, Danish climate targets should mean anything to the outside world, because even if we do not always get our ideas trumped through, we have a mouthpiece. We're at the negotiating table. And since we cannot rule the world by the size of our country, we must act wisely. To fight our only mouthpiece, the European Union, with beaks and claws is to take the sling from the shepherd boy David, now to become a bit biblical. If you do, the European Union will never be the climate king. Right now we have a unique opportunity to turn the whole of Europe in a greener direction and thus help future generations, also in Denmark. Right now we also have the opportunity to reach out and help those countries that are the hardest hit by corona. Of course we have to do that. It is called solidarity, and that is what is needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135919	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624135921	I have two questions. The first question is: isn't the SF a little bit concerned that this recovery package is being put under the auspices of the Commission? After all, we saw how the Commission used its power during the financial crisis to attack the trade unions, to liberalise and so on. etc. That is the power that is now being given to the Commission again. So would it not be good and would the SF not support the fact that the recovery fund is outside the EU budget? The second question is: what does SF say that with the answers we have received, we can risk this money ending up in tax havens? Should we not have a block on Danish employees' money going to help some companies and some companies where it could end up in tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140016	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140017	Thank you for that and thank you for the questions. In relation to tax havens, it has been, and still is, a demand from the SF that the aid that goes to European countries should not, of course, go to tax havens. We have pointed this out, we have emphasised this, and it is also part of the requirements for the various countries. It cannot be discussed at all, i.e. they must not. So to the question of whether the recovery fund should be under the Commission and that it could then lead to things like the financial crisis. I would say that is quite right. We must not, at all, end up in the same situation as we did during the financial crisis. This money is not the sort of blank cheque you just give to the different countries, and then they can do with the money they want. That's not how it works. We have some requirements for the countries and they must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140121	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140121-2	It's more about what you're supposed to be. So, I think we can demand that there should be limits on how cheap millionaires in Italy should get taxed before they grant money, but these are not the demands of the Commission; these are quite different demands. But what puzzles me a little about both, i.e. both the tax havens and the Commission's powers, is that it may well be that the SF wants it, but that is not part of the mandate that the government has been given. So, is this supposed to mean that if the government doesn't get through with this, the SF will call on the government to vote against the budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140202	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140203	In other words, we have been discussing this issue of tax havens in the Committee on European Affairs, where the rapporteur has also been part of that discussion and a discussion which we have taken up and which we take very, very seriously. I don't want the money going to tax havens. We can never support that in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140224	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140225	After all, the SF plays a very central role in the government's EU policy and is, of course, crucial for the government to have its majority in place at all. That is why I am surprised that the SF does not go harder to the government in what should be, I would say, central areas. In other words, is it not quite understood that you are opposed to EU taxes, that you are against giving money to other countries, that you are against common EU debts and such things? So what does the SF plan to do when the government comes back with an agreement that contains all the things that usually do not escape with the policy that the SF has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140311	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I would say that it is true that we obviously have a decisive mandate from the SF; but that we have not got anything through, that is, some things that matter to the SF, are simply not right. For the government has done much as we in the SF have asked, namely to make a much greener move in return for our support. Then I would also like to say that it was the SF that took the previous mandate in a much greener direction, and so did we with the new mandate. So the government has had to move in a more green direction to get our support. So in relation to the gift thing. I would just like to arrest that, because the starting point is that it has to be a loan that has to be repaid with some reasonable interest. The next is that we simply cannot escape the fact that we also have to grant subsidies if we are to preserve our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140421	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140423	So we have to give money to some other countries to ensure that we have welfare in Denmark? Well, Mrs Oguz just has to explain that to me. I can understand the fact that the various European schemes, banking arrangements and things like that can secure loans. I am in favour of this. And I also agree that it should be on more favourable terms than those which are purely market-based, otherwise Italians and Spaniards could just go out to borrow on the market. But that giving money that is not paid back should be good for the Danish welfare, Mrs Oguz simply has to explain.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140503	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140505	I'd like that very much. The money we are giving for some of the European countries to get up again economically is an advantage for Denmark and the Danish economy, because our economy is actually dependent on it going well in other countries. When we are doing well financially, we also have better advice for the care of the elderly, which I know the Danish People's Party is very concerned with, a stronger health care, minimum standards and a lot of other good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140547	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140549	But I would just like to hear: if we are getting richer in Denmark by giving 1 billion to southern Europe, should we not give 2 billion, so that we are twice as much richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140601	I do not think I fully understood the question, i.e. whether 1 or 2 billion should do better. This is about some countries that are so badly affected economically, countries where it will also benefit us if we lift them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140627	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140627-2	Well, there are countries around the world that would benefit from getting some money from Denmark. And we are also giving a great deal of money to a lot of countries around the world within the European Union and outside the European Union, and if it even benefits Denmark, why do we not give twice as much?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140645	The money we give isn't someone we give away. The money we are giving is something that comes back in terms of jobs, in terms of economic growth and I think that must be in the interests of the Liberal Alliance too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140706	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that also means that we will return to the normal series of rapporteurs. That's why it's now, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624140718	Thank you for that and thank you for today's debate. It is an important debate about Danish EU policy; an issue which has attracted a great deal of attention in recent weeks. So it makes sense for us to be allowed to discuss it in the Chamber today. There is no doubt that corona has hit all European countries hard. Nor is there any doubt that some countries have been hit particularly hard, and it is therefore also sensible that we should now embark on an economic recovery. In this context, more than ever, Denmark needs to take responsibility in European cooperation, and I am therefore pleased that the government was given its mandate on 16 June to work for Danish interests in Europe. Thank you. Let me make it clear that we are in favour of a substantial recovery fund that can help the countries most affected in Europe. We support a recovery fund of many billions. We do so for the sake of employment both here and abroad, and we do so for the sake of businesses both here and abroad. However, with our support, there must also be room to discuss how a fund should be financed. We believe that this should be done wisely and properly. The Fund must offer attractive loans to the countries most in need. When a country is so badly affected as for example. Italy, we must show solidarity. We must give a helping hand, but it must be done without throwing financial responsibility overboard. Hardly affected EU countries need help when needed, but it is the case that right and duty go hand in hand. If you have the opportunity to contribute, then you must also contribute. After all, we have carried out difficult and tough reforms in Denmark so that in the future we can live in a strong welfare society. That is why we are also in a strong economic position. Other countries are somewhere else. They have economies that are more fragile. Therefore, they are also bad at dealing with times of crisis. And we'd like to help. In general terms, however, we also think it is right that you should pay for the debt that you have helped to establish. We therefore stress that the largest possible share of the Fund's resources should go to loans and that the grant part should be reduced accordingly. At the same time, we attach importance to the fact that the aid given in this connection is temporary. At the same time, the fund's resources must be used wisely. The Commission is proposing to spend a considerable bag of money in Europe. That is good, but long-term help in this regard is also to make demands on how the money is spent. It is not about strict austerity requirements, but about putting a political direction on the investments to which the fund contributes. We must create growth and prosperity by investing in the green transition. We must create growth and prosperity by placing emphasis on digitisation, so that European economies can emerge stronger from the crisis than they were when they entered the crisis. It is also important for Danish jobs, for Danish growth and thus ultimately for Danish economy. Europe needs a green and responsible recovery. That is why I am also pleased that a majority of parties here in the Folketing can agree that financial responsibility and solidarity can and must go hand in hand. I would therefore like to read on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants a united, fair and responsible recovery of the European economy that strengthens the green transition. In the negotiations on a recovery fund, the Danish Parliament wants a result that best covers Danish interests. ▪ V 102) Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141055	And the proposal is also part of the further debate, and I would like to make a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141100	I think many people have the impression that the government is very restrictive in EU policy. It has also been possible to place stories in the Danish press that Denmark is seen as the most restrictive country in the EU when negotiating these things. And that's why it might be nice if Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen wanted to shed light on where the pain line, like, goes for when you say yes to this budget. Because we have heard from the Minister for Finance that the right of veto has been thrown overboard. You go for a compromise. And so it would be nice to know: where is the pain limit for how bad that compromise must be? After all, the Commission's proposal is called 750 billion. euro. Can you live with 700 billion? Euro? We're down to 650 billion. Euro? How much will the Danes have to pay in addition to the 6 billion increase. Euro we have from the MFF? Then Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen say a little bit about what we have in store?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141205	Thank you. Well, I think it is important to be aware here that yes, we have been described as restrictive. I read the same articles myself. In reality, however, I think that the fact that it is restrictive or austerity gangs or the like is misleading. In other words, we believe that Europe must have a more modern budget. We believe that Europe must devote its energies to digitalisation and to the green area, where Denmark has strong positions, and where investment will therefore also benefit the Danish economy. We also believe that it has been the case in the past that, for example, the size of the European administration has increased as Europe has become more countries. At the same time, this means that when Europe is shrinking, as Europe is doing now, when we go from 28 to 27, then the budget must also follow the other path. If you want to call it restrictive, that's okay. I think it's responsible. That would be to say: that is what we can agree to. We believe that we should draw towards a more responsible budget and we believe that we should draw towards a fund where more money is paid out as a loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141310	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141311	Firstly, I think it is nice that the Social Democrats' financial rapporteur is told that it is misleading to say that the Danish Government belongs to a savings gang. For what we see today is also a little strange: how can one be in a gang of savings when it comes to Danish taxpayers spending billions of more dollars on other countries' internal conditions? So I am happy to clarify that. But I do not agree with Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's assumption that it is good that other countries do not know where our pain limit is. Because it could be that we could actually have it if we were to threaten to say that everything else is going to be vetoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141348	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141349	I am not going to be able to say it, but it can happen that the Danish People's Party will at some point come to a debate in a government where you have to deal with what strategy you want to put into foreign policy negotiations. But my general knowledge of the negotiating strategy I think I will say that I would certainly argue for it with a certain degree of firmness in the vote that it is quite reasonable not to tell in advance where the pain line is going. You could imagine getting a result that was even better than where the pain line goes. So I think we have chosen a sensible strategy there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141423	Thank you! When I am a little sharp about keeping to time, it is because we have 45 minutes left, and there are five rapporteurs and a finance minister in the series of speeches. It's basically just for information, because it's at 9:00 a.m. So the question ends at 15.00 p.m. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141437	I would just like to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur does not also find it highly provocative that the country which seems to receive the greatest support from this recovery fund is Poland, which systematically exploits a system of sending workers to Denmark ■ in Denmark they are underpaid, but still gets more than they would get in Poland, and therefore they send tax home and which in the EU systematically fights against social dumping and which, in addition, has supported apartheid zones in Poland itself. Is it not highly provocative for a Socialist rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141518	After all, we have clearly stated that the government has said very clearly that we believe that we should work to ensure that the allocation principles, the allocation key, should not reflect the situation from 2015 to 2019; it should reflect how hard the countries are actually hit by covid-19. And, of course, we stand by that point of view. If we talk more generally about the EU budget and the challenges that exist in certain countries, then it is of course Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows that we have placed great emphasis on the rule of law. We believe that greater attention should be paid to compliance by countries with the common democratic rules of play, the common European values of human rights and the common European values of diversity, and we believe that their ability to live up to those values must be reflected when we speak the budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141608	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141609	That sounds good. I just want to know whether the conclusion is simple: we will not see the Social Democrats vote for an EU budget or an EU recovery fund, where the largest amount goes to a country that uses social dumping, defends social dumping and introduces apartheid zones into its own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141627	Here we come again to the kind of formulated questions that end with: can we promise that we will not vote in favour of the budget? And this is where the veto comes in, isn't it? I think it is unwise to work with a veto when what is the task here is to reach a compromise in which we draw the result farther towards the Danish positions. And I have explained those positions, both in terms of the allocation key and in terms of human rights, the rule of law mechanisms and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141651	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141652	First of all, congratulations for having succeeded in finding a majority in favour of a text without the Left. You may be so a little less impressed when you see what has been agreed, that is to say you have to have a result that best looks after Danish interests. I'm thinking that's not what you've had the big fight about. That some have said that one should take care of Danish interests as little as possible, and others have said if one should not write as much as possible; it almost gives itself. And the other thing that's written almost gives itself as well. So, what really is it for Danish interests that you want, and how much is the most possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141737	I would just like to say quite clearly that it is not in the interests of Denmark, it is not in the interests of the Danes that the Left has placed itself in a situation in which the government's negotiation of the multiannual European budget is no longer mandated. And it has certainly not been my intention and, I believe, the rapporteur's intention that the Left should not be included in this text either. I do not know what the rules are, but if the Left believes that the text is good and safe, then you are still very, very welcome to join. I believe that the Danes have an expectation of a party like the Left that they support the Danish government when we negotiate on behalf of Denmark and Danish interests. The Left has failed that responsibility. I think this is serious, I think it is irresponsible, and I think it is unwise. But it must stand for the Left's own expense. Having said that, it is very clear what the Danish position is with regard to the recovery fund: we want more emphasis on loans, less on grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141839	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141840	I have noticed that the Social Democrats believe that this is very, very wise, because every time you have to define your policy, it is that you are oh so clever. So, I think that the Socialist rapporteur should leave it up to the electorate to assess what is wise and what is less wise. In other words, what is wise, for example, when you increase Danish taxes in order to allow the Italians to lower taxes, I think most Danes find it difficult to see, because it does not seem as immediately as the peak of intelligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141912	I am very ready to let the electorate decide whether social democratic policy is wise or not. And if you look at the current opinion polls, you have to say that there is a very large majority of voters who think it is. So in this case, I'm quite calm.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141929	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624141930	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. This is, of course, an important debate for Denmark, because we are in a situation where Danish taxpayers can pay a nicely large part of the bill for the subsidy to southern Europe, which has not managed their economy. That is why we are curious to know what the government really intends to do. Does the government agree that we can imagine giving gifts, both in terms of the budget and also in terms of the recovery fund we are talking about here? We would like to know whether the Socialists are prepared to tell the Danish Parliament who is going to finance any gifts, if that is what you want. We cannot allow, in the Danish People's Party, the government to run a policy that ends up costing Danish taxpayers very, very large sums of money to southern European countries that have not managed their economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142030	Thank you for the question. I don't know if sir. Peter Skaarup was present when I gave my rapporteur's speech, but I said in the rapporteur's speech that there are different economic situations in different European countries. There are some who have economies that are less equipped to face the crisis than the Danish economy. I believe that those countries should do something about the situation, take initiatives that improve their economic situation. But is that an argument that we should not provide aid to the countries affected by the crisis now? No, I do not think so, both because I think most Danes feel solidarity with Italy, for example, which is very, very hard hit by the Corona situation, for which they are not responsible themselves, but also because it is bad for Denmark if things go wrong for the Spanish, the Italian, the French economy as a result of corona. I believe that the author's party and my own party share some voters who go to work every day in companies that depend on the proper functioning of the European economy, and in relation to the Danes it is our responsibility to do what we can to restore the European economy, but with as much loans as possible and less subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142140	Thank you. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142141	But can the Socialists not answer whether there really is no pain limit to how far they want to go in terms of giving subsidies and gifts to southern Europe? Let me just remind you that southern Europe and, above all, Italy have not been able at any time to meet many of the demands that we will normally make on healthy economies. It's not just the corona. It is a long time before there have been major problems. So are the Socialists really so quick to be a good part of the company down there that they will not veto or stand firm?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142216	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142217	As I also answered Mr. Peter Skaarup's party colleague earlier, I think it would be a bad negotiating strategy and therefore a negotiating strategy that would move the result further away from the Danish starting point, to reveal where the pain line goes. I just think it's unwise. That is the answer to the first question, sir. Peter Skaarup asked why we are not now going to point out how to finance a possible extra bill for the EU. Because if we point to that funding now, we have already thrown the towel in the ring. We are working for the Social Democrats to work for, the government is working for the EU budget to become more responsible and less.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142250	Thank you. When I keep being a little sharp on time, it's because we have to end by 8:00 at the latest. 15.00 and five rapporteurs and a finance minister are missing. So it will be the debate with the Minister for Finance that will be affected. The great collegiality has continued to manifest itself here, and that is why Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's turn. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142310	Thank you for the flexibility of the other rapporteurs. It can be hard as a small party to be in two places at once. So thank you for that. If you belong to the 10%. the richest in Denmark and there is an accident for one, for example. That your washing machine breaks down and you need a new one, or that your car goes to the workshop and repairs and then you don't have the money for it, then it's not because you've been hit by an accident. Then it's because you haven't thought about it in your economy. It hasn't been planned after things can happen. If you belong among the 10%. The richest countries in the world, as I believe all EU countries do, and yet you do not have air in the budget for an accident like the corona virus, it is not because of the virus itself that you have problems. Then it is because you have a bad economic policy. If, in such a situation, other countries say that every time something unforeseen happens to Spain or Italy, we come up with some money for them, then we do not encourage these countries to get better control of their economy in the future, so that every stone on the road does not overturn their knowledge. On the contrary, we are encouraging more irresponsibility because these countries are learning that if they do not have a surplus in the economy, then just some people from northern Europe will come and pay the bill. That is why we are against this, and we are actually quite puzzled by the government's negotiating position here. Because it is the case that if Denmark does not want to, then it will not happen. Each country has a right of veto on issues such as these, each country can prevent it from giving gifts to other countries of the European Union. If you do not use that right of veto, then it is because you want to give those gifts. We have not heard the government go to the platform and say anything about that in the great power-political game and in relation to Denmark's interests in 5 years' time etc. We think it is necessary to give this gift to southern Europe. That is something that is being talked about, so we cannot take as the basis that it is at stake that we believe that there are some long-term interests associated with giving gifts in Denmark. You don't talk about actually having a right of veto and being able to prevent this. That is why we have to assume that it is just because you want to give some money away. There is a desire to encourage irresponsibility and that countries in the future may also have an irresponsible economy, because there are some rich Norse people coming and paying the bill afterwards. We do not think it is a proper negotiating strategy, we do not think it is a proper policy and we are opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142607	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142609	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen places a great deal of emphasis on this gift element, and it may be a little strange, because the government's mandate very clearly says that we agree that we need to reduce the grant element and focus more on the part that concerns loans. So it is a little baroque that so much effort is being spent on sending out a criticism which, in fact, is very much in the opinion of the government. But enough about it. I was just trying to find a number, but I couldn't find it. But just from memory I think I remember that it is 600,000 Danish jobs that are directly dependent on Danish goods being sought after on the European market. Even if the figure is slightly different, I think we can agree that it is absolutely crucial for the Danish economy, crucial for Danish jobs, that there is a great demand for our expertise and goods in Europe. Is that not an argument for helping to restore the European economy, even in those countries which have pursued a policy which we do not like in the economic sphere?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142715	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142716	Then there are a number of countries in the world to which we must send money, so that they can afford to buy some goods in Denmark. I don't think it's a sensible business model. But I understand that the Social Democrats have two leads. One is that you say you actually want to get the gift item as far down as possible. The second is that it is said that it is actually sensible to give it a gift. But why is it that we should get that gift element as far down as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142741	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142742	It is a distortion of what the mandate is and what the Social Democrats think. We do not think that the gift should be greater or the grant should be greater. We believe that the aid we provide in the form of attractive loans must be greater. I actually think so too, sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows. Then there is this comment about how many countries could then be given it. It must reveal a lack of understanding of how the Danish economy works, a lack of understanding of what some countries we are selling goods to. After all, these are the European countries. The most important economic unit for Danish business is the European Union, and that is why we should restore the European economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142816	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142816-2	I think that we are also marketing a great many goods in the United States and China. Does this mean that the next time an economic crisis hits the United States and China, we must send money there in order for them to have some money for which they can buy Danish goods? I think that is a strange argument, and it is entirely contradicted by the fact that the Social Democrats want as little money as possible to be sent. If it were as good to send money, you'd think you should send as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142841	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We will return to the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624142904	Now is the time that has passed, and the Minister for Finance should be happy about that, because then I have been able to calm down a little. Because if there is one thing I have absolutely no respect for, as in no respect at all, it is politicians who use straws. I think we should simply stay too good for that. I did not say in a single word that Denmark should not be with other countries or that Denmark should stand alone. That is why I simply do not think it is appropriate for the country's Finance Minister to stand and make such false claims from the parliamentary platform. I assume it was a mistake, and I assume that error does not happen again. Then I would like to take this opportunity once again to commend the government for having managed to create a majority for a proposal for adoption and to show that there are 90 seats in the Folketing, which is the pro-EU, even the Left. It is actually quite impressive, but I would have been somewhat more impressed if we had succeeded in creating a majority for a text in which something actually stands. For there is little in the proposal for adoption for which the government has obtained a majority. What is not, then, is what the Left text says, that contributions must be temporary, that they must not set a precedent, and that is to say, for more than half of them, they must be granted as loans, and then demands must be made: compliance with the rule of law, which we have also mentioned in the past, and demands for economic reforms. That is the difference, and that is the text which the Left will be presenting shortly but which is therefore not supported. The Danish People's Party has said that tax relief in Italy should not be financed by tax increases in Denmark, and we agree with that, but that does not mean that we have anything against tax cuts in Italy. I'm sure it could be quite fine. The Left is in favour of tax relief all over the world and under people all over the world to put the tax down, and that may well be what it takes to stimulate the economy of Italy. But if it happens with tax increases in Denmark, then the party stops. That is why, unfortunately, the government did not succeed in obtaining a mandate which included the votes of the Left. We would have liked it to do so, but since we could not get a guarantee that the more money we have to send to the European Union could be financed without tax increases, unfortunately we could not be involved. It would have been quite easy for the government to say that we are taking the money from the economic space, but that will was not there. I should just like to point out that when the Left is outside the mandate that has been given, yes, it is, we think, a little sad too, but it takes two to dance tango. Now we are discussing a recovery fund or package, or whatever we should call it, and it is expensive. But I would like to state that the alternative is more expensive. If we do nothing on the part of the European Union to support the economies of southern Europe, it will be expensive for the whole of Europe, including for Denmark. We can compare it to the Marshall Aid after World War II. It wasn't given for our blue eyes. It was given by the Americans as an investment in a future market, an investment in a future global economy, and it has to be said that they were quite foresightful then, and of course we must be. Then we must recognise that southern Europe has been hit quite badly by the corona crisis. First of all, of course, of the disease itself, but also of course because it is countries that are very tourist heavy and will therefore be hit even harder economically than others. After all, it comes on top of a refugee/migratory crisis, where southern Europe was also hit extra hard, which is due only to their geographical location as those closest to North Africa and the Middle East. So they're not to blame for that. We must show solidarity, and solidarity is not that some respirators are being sent out that do not work and that cannot be used for anything. Genuine solidarity is what we are showing here with the recovery package, which the Left therefore fully supports, but we agree with it, among other things. must be of great importance to loans rather than grants. I have a text that I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Parliament wants a solidarity, fair and responsible recovery of the European economy, which strengthens the green transition. Contributions from the Recovery Fund shall be temporary, shall not create a precedent, and shall be made mainly as loans and with requirements for compliance with the rule of law and economic reforms. The Folketing wants these Danish interests to be safeguarded. • V 103).
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143336	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143339	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is very concerned about the use of the money. That could be good. But there is not much about how they are provided. The way in which it is intended to do so is that the European Union, as a legal person, is borrowing on the financial market. This means, of course, that Denmark, if at some point we find ourselves in a situation where one of the countries that has then received the money, whether in the form of loans or donations, cannot or will not pay back, then helps to bind it because we have included the debt in what you would call in solidum, i.e. that we should all shoulder to shoulder for it. That's what I'm gonna ask, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen on whether it is really the policy of the Left. Because I think it is a sad move that moves in the direction of the EU borrowing joint loans. That reminds me of something, sir. Jens Rohde could have proposed such a common financial policy and federalism. Well, then, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen even worried about that part of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143446	Yes, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, but perhaps not as much as Mr. Jørgensen. Morten Messerschmidt, I'd like to acknowledge that. However, we are facing an historic and deep economic crisis, and desperate times require desperate measures, and that is not something we usually do, that is to say, going out and borrowing together. In doing so, it is because, among other things, the credit rating that some countries have in the European Union is higher than the credit rating that other countries have. Therefore, better conditions can be achieved, first and foremost the lower interest rates. So that way there can be sense in it. That you do not want to pay back the money, I must regard it as quite unthinkable, that is, that it should happen. If that were to happen, you would have structural funds, agricultural aid and other things, and the money could then be withheld if necessary. So I don't see that as a problem. So the fact that you should get into a situation where you can't repay them, but that's among other things. Therefore, that we are doing this whole project, namely to ensure that there are no countries that go state bankrupt and that come in a situation where they cannot pay back money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143553	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143554	But what guarantee has the Left been given that this will help? Now Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, the Marshall Aid earlier. I think it might be a bit crazy to compare it with the damage that World War II had on the whole continent of Europe, but fair enough. That's where they had some guarantees. In other words, the Americans were physically present and had to make demands on how to build your central administration and how to deal with the whole way Europe was to be built. Did Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen received similar guarantees in relation to the countries that are going to have this money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143630	We fully agree that, of course, Marshall aid cannot be compared to it one by one and that it was quite a different and far more serious situation that Europe faced after the Second World War. That was among other things. That is why the European Union was built, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party would like to get out of. It was one of those things. to avoid future wars on the European continent. Guarantees? There is nothing more than the guarantee that comes from being a member of the European Union and being bound by the obligations that are there. So far, there have been no examples of some failing to comply with those guarantees. After all, the European Union is only half a century old, so that can of course happen. But so far, that has not happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143706	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143708	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen began his rapporteur's speech by being very angry that the Minister for Finance should appear to have set up some strawmen. I overheard the debate, and it was a strange attack. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen asked the Minister for Finance whether the association of the frugal four, the countries that we work with the thrift gang, as some call it, should have weakened the Danish negotiating position, and to that the Minister for Finance agrees that we are strengthened because we stand together with a number of other countries. I fully agree with the Minister for Finance, and I am surprised at the criticism that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's good party colleague Mr. Kristian Jensen, who as Secretary of State began this cooperation. What kind of weird zigzag course has the author's party taken in this case? Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen not that it is an advantage that we stand together with like-minded countries in this case to ensure that we get the grant element far down and similarly ensure that the loan element will be more central?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143808	Now I think, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen makes himself more unwise than he is. In other words, if we go in and look at the debate and read what was said on my part and on the part of the Minister of Finance, it is quite clear that what I was asking was how it seemed to have gone with the strategy that the frugal four has taken. For that has not gone so well: the Commission's proposal is farther away from the Danish interests than where France-Germany was located. That is what I asked; I asked how it seemed to have been done. Of course, you can stand with some, but you can't be very good at negotiating and not achieve very good results. This is not the same as saying that we should then stand alone and not be with Sweden and Austria and the Netherlands. So, it may be that you don't listen to what I'm saying, and I think that's fair enough. It can also be boring to listen to what I'm saying; I'm all about that, but at least you shouldn't pretend you've heard what I've said and then go in and comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143905	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143907	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is very busy assessing the wisdom of the Social Democratic position in this matter, and that must stand for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's own bill. What I was asking was, uh... Jan E. Jørgensen does not continue to think that basically it makes sense for us to work closely with the countries that make up the frugal four, i.e. whether we will continue to do so, and that, by virtue of this cooperation, we are more likely to achieve a result closer to the Danish position, which is also the position that the Left occupies. Then there has been a domestic policy which was intended to be the subject of the European political debate; I think that is unwise. But basically, I understand that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen supports Denmark's position on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624143957	So it is not I who is busy using the words wisely and unwisely; Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen himself has just used them. A Social Democrat can hardly open his mouth at the moment without telling how wise one's own strategy is, and sometimes also how clever the Conservatives' strategy is, and thus how unwise everyone else's strategy is. So, you know, I'm not the one who's busy with it. But it is fine, that is, to turn politics into a matter of being smart and unwise rather than making it a question of what you mean and attitudes to be broken, etc. It is a new break in Danish politics, but the Social Democratic Party must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144030	Thank you. Now it is the case that we still have a few brief comments to make. We still need three rapporteurs and one minister before we finish at 1 p.m. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. I would like to make brief remarks, and I would also like to have brief speeches from the rapporteur, if we are to reach everyone. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144054	The Left rapporteur not only wants tax cuts in Denmark, but across the world, including in all EU countries. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that at least one of the reasons why things went so wrong in Greece was that they had a completely collapsed tax system and that, when you earned above a certain income, you could decide completely whether or not to pay taxes, which meant that most people did not pay any taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144119	Well, I'm certainly not as much in Italian financial and fiscal history as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is, so I'm not going to say that at all. So, the Left thinks that you should pay the tax you have to pay, of course, and there should be no option to decide for yourself how much you want to pay in tax. And we must also have effective tax control. Of course, this must also be done in Italy. But that a high tax is a barrier to growth, no matter where we are in the world, we believe, and we also believe that we have historical evidence of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144154	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144156	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for an as usual colourful rapporteur speech. As a matter of fact, I also noticed what Mr. Søren Søndergaard. It wasn't enough, as good old Thor Pedersen said he was here as a finance minister that you could buy the whole world, no, here it was something about us giving tax concessions to the whole world. The problem is only if it is Danish taxpayers who are about to pay tax relief in Italy or Spain, and that is actually not entirely excluded from what is happening when you look at the political discussions in Italy and in Spain. But enough about it. What I really want to ask the rapporteur of the Left is: does the rapporteur of the Left share my view that this is really about trying and saving the euro, in other words that these huge aid packages are really about saving the euro? Does the rapporteur agree with that? And, by the way, does the Left still want Denmark to be included in the euro, so we have to pay with the euro in the supermarket?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144301	Now Mr. Peter Skaarup as well as I do that Mr. Thor Pedersen made fun of the Treasury's math models when he made that remark about buying the whole world. I actually think that's such a little bit of a "yes," what should we say "critical" to use the old term. Nor am I saying that I can guarantee tax relief throughout the world or, for that matter, will work for it. They're gonna have to deal with that themselves around the world. I am just saying that I do not want the European Union to prohibit Italy from putting their taxes down, and I would also very much like me to reject the idea that the European Union banned Denmark, that we should put some taxes down. That's what I think you should decide for yourself. And if, on the basis of an overall assessment, it is felt that what could be boosted in the Italian economy, among other things. I guess it'll be fine. This is certainly not something that I intend the European Union to decide. But it should not be done by Danish taxpayers having to pay higher taxes, which could then finance a lower tax, and the Minister for Finance could have given a guarantee that that would not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144404	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144405	That is precisely the problem: the Minister for Finance could not give such a guarantee. So what is really going to happen is that we are giving quite large transfers once again to southern Europe, and then they are lowering taxes for their own people, and I am glad that the Left agrees with that. I mean, it's totally wrong if that happens. But the second question does not really seem to me to be Mr. Jan E Jørgensen replied. Is it not, in fact, the euro that we are trying to save with the European Union's actions, and does the Left still want us to pay with the euro and not with the crowns in the supermarket?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144440-2	That was precisely the reason why the Left did not give the government a mandate: that we could not get the guarantee that this would not mean, for example, a higher tax in Denmark. And yes, the Left remains in favour of abolishing all our EU reservations, including the euro reservation. But I don't think that's what's going to happen first. We believe it is more important to abolish the reservation of defence and the reservation of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144506	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144508	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Jan E. Jørgensen can explain to me why the Left broke with 30 years of tradition and did not vote in favour of the EU budget. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen may say that this has something to do with funding, but when you look back on the Left's EU history, the issue of funding has never led to a vote against an EU that ultimately takes care of Danish interests. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen in that light justify that it was not a political teasing that took place here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144552	This isn't about political teasing. It is about the fact that we have a Prime Minister who, in this Chamber, asked questions to all sorts of others who suddenly had to answer how we should finance these many, many billions that she got to send to the European Union. Should Denmark, which already has one of the highest retirement ages in the EU, raise it even higher? Do we have to cut deep into welfare? Shall we set up the treasure? Then we said that these are really very good questions, so what if the Prime Minister himself answered those questions? 'Cause it's the PM who's asking for that money. That is why it is actually very reasonable for the Prime Minister to say: well, listen, we will find that money, and we will find it without setting up the tax. So it was, in fact, because the Prime Minister made it a theme in the debate that we then said: yes, there she actually has a point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144645	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144647	Thank you. So it was simply triggered by the Prime Minister's question of where the funding would come from. I do not think it was quite an answer to my question as to why the Left broke with a 30-year tradition. For is it basically not important that we give the government a strong mandate in the back when the government is going to negotiate on behalf of Denmark and Danish interests, which I know the Left is also interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144718	Well, that's the answer. The answer, then, is that the Prime Minister has refused, the Minister for Finance has refused, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has refused to answer whether an increased EU budget can be financed without leading to tax increases. So that was the justification. And now that there is talk of sending the government off with a strong mandate, I would say that this is not a strong mandate. It's a total rubber band mandate. The government can come home with any outcome of the negotiations and say that it has lived up to the mandate. It is not that strong a mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144747	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144749	But that depends so little on what those who give the mandate actually say about the state of affairs, and there it is just too bad that the Left is not in it. It's almost a confession case, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, when you use as a reason that it was the Prime Minister who started this discussion. That simply brings me to the question whether Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen thinks that the one's fault excuses the other's.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144817	No, I do not think so as a starting point. However, this is a question of making everything suddenly the fault of the European Union, and if the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance cannot get a budget law voted home without voting from the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and others who want to raise taxes and taxes and everything else, then you will stand and beat out with your arms and say that it is also because of the EU's shaky budget, or whatever you might say. Because that's the line we've seen this government take. So, surely we have the most EU-sceptic Prime Minister, Denmark has ever had, who makes Danish problems the EU's problems, and who wipes out responsibility for their own mistakes on the EU. And the Left just won't give legitimacy to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144903	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144905	But that's what's too bad, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. That is what you accidentally come to because you go along with the Prime Minister's house tricks, which you should have left to the forum that is here and then take stock of the situation in the debate and say: we do not fall for that. Because the Left has never fallen for that. It has never been made part of its mandate, even when we last gave a mandate, when we both shared in giving a mandate. We knew that the payment would be higher, but then we did not discuss finance law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624144945	No, but we just don't want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to go out and knock her arms out and say: now we have to raise taxes, now we have to lower welfare, now we have to keep Arne waiting for a few years to retire, because we don't have money for it because the European Union has come up with this big budget and we need to spend many, many more billions. In other words, the Prime Minister makes it sound as if a euro spent on the EU is almost a euro thrown out of the window and as if that means that we cannot spend money on climate action. We can do that to such an extent, because the European Union is also part of the climate effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145022	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Now it is the case that we only have 10 minutes left, which means that I have to say stop for short remarks and that the rapporteurs will be as brief as possible. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145041	I always speak for as little time as I possibly can. I will then start by reading out the proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament requires the government to vote only for a 7-year EU budget, where the EU reduces CO2 by 2030 as a necessary step to comply with the Paris Agreement. Parliament approves that Denmark, outside the EU budget, contributes to a corona aid fund for the most affected countries, but without any further transfer of power to the EU. Some questions may be asked about the proposal for adoption. Why do we mention the 65%?? That's what we're gonna do, 'cause without the 65%. After all, it is absolutely impossible to achieve the climate target of the Paris Agreement. Unfortunately, the European Union has all too often made declarations of intent about the climate, which are not leading in the right direction. We have seen that the declarations of intent made in connection with the last budget have only led to a very modest drop in CO2 This shows a report that has come from Eurostat, the EU's own statistical office. And if it continues at that rate, it is absolutely impossible to achieve the goal of the Paris Agreement. After all, the recovery fund and the budget are linked. Then you can ask the question: Who should the money go to? Yeah, the starting point for this is the corona crisis. Therefore, our starting point is that it should go to those affected by the corona crisis. I don't want it to go to all sorts of other people. Why shouldn't it go to all sorts of others? It should not be, because we have no responsibility for the construction of the euro. We've chosen to stand outside. We think that the European Union should build a structure so that the countries affected daily by the euro construction • Greece, Italy, Portugal, etc. We think that would be a very good idea. It takes effort. Having said no, when the Danish people have said no to the euro, it is not our job to save the euro's economy. But corona solidarity? Yeah, absolutely. The third question that can be asked is: why should the recovery fund be outside the budget? It is simply to prevent the European Commission from dictating the conditions for this. If we look at how this happened last time the European Commission had power in the context of the financial crisis, we can see how the aid that was given was a bourgeois liberalist cut-back policy. Greece was forced to sell one of the largest ports in Europe, the Port of Piræus, to the Chinese, to sell the 14 most lucrative regional airports, etc. etc. I can't make it anymore. It's a very fast watch, I think. However, I am very pleased that I could help other rapporteurs to speak by coming before me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145406	Thank you. I'm sorry, but we have a backside. So thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145414	I was out for a moment, and suddenly I had slipped down the list, too, but peace be with it. After all, we have been discussing this for a long time and several times in the Committee on European Affairs. The Conservative People's Party considers it important that Denmark sits at the table in Brussels, and we do so because it is both about the MFF, the 7-year budget, and the recovery fund. It's so smart that the two things are connected, but of course it has to be separated. I mean, it wouldn't be an option for us if Denmark didn't sit in these negotiations now. It is our internal market, it is our employment, it is our profession, it is the future, it is a green transition, and it is also protecting our external borders. That is why it is so important for Denmark to be involved, and that is why we also agreed to this mandate because there is a budgetary-restrictive line. There are, of course, many things that we disagree with in the Commission's proposal, but that does not mean simply standing outside and having a crybaby, but then you have to be down there and try to fight for your interests, and that is the way it is in international politics. There are 27 Member States and they need to make compromises. We would also very much like the EU budget to be modernised, to be given priority, that the Structural Funds should never really be very permanent and that agricultural aid can be phased out. There are plenty to be screwed up, and of course also that key, in relation to what the recovery fund is going to do. We do not agree that we need to create ghosts and say that if you get money from a recovery fund, it automatically goes to Italian tax cuts. After all, there is a demand for economic reform, and that is where we must press for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145603	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145610	Thank you for the floor. The European Commission has proposed a 7-year framework budget for around 8 200 billion. for the period 2021-2027. Under the guise of the corona crisis, that amount must be topped up with a gigantic recovery plan. 5,600 billion. kr. The European Commission will lend to the Recovery Fund and then take the vast majority of the money out of the Italians and Spaniards. We in New Citizens do not regard ourselves as stingy. We are in favour of investment sometimes to set the wheels in motion, but both the framework budget and the astronomical amount of the recovery plan are completely insane. The cheerful givers in Brussels call it a boost. I think that is an absurd statement. In reality, this is a limited effect. On the other hand, we will see a tsunami of economic side effects for Denmark, and this is not possible, especially in view of the economic challenges that the Corona crisis has brought with it, not least for Denmark and Danish citizens. A great deal of money has been spent to help hold hands during the Danish economy. Here we need to turn every penny, not least in relation to Denmark's contribution to the crisis-stricken EU. The tax crowns of Danish citizens need to be given much better priority than to be strewn as part of the EU's gift region. It is totally unreasonable to put present and future generations into an economic straitjacket with this recovery fund. We're talking about 5,600 billion. kr., an amount that is completely out of proportion and which, overall, contributes to the EU's already extravagant expenditure. The money must be raised by dramatically increasing the European Commission's ability to borrow money on the financial markets. The Commission hopes to repay the loan by means of inter alia: a number of green taxes and charges that will end up in the EU funds... higher taxes and charges... yes, of course: send more money. That is the European Union's solution to everything. With contempt for both secularity, economy and reason, Europhile bureaucrats and politicians are rushing towards anyone who challenges the sacred European Union; a European Union that is so obviously a failure politically as well as economically. For me it is a mystery that Danish politicians from both sides of the House also support this development. It is, of course, pure utopia to believe that Italy and Spain will magically get control of their national economies by means of this donation from the Recovery Fund. The politicians of southern Europe, with decades of overuse and inability and desire to control their own economies, have grounded their own nations. With thoughtless wastefulness, a huge black economy and grotesque welfare benefits, southern Europe has created the conditions for their current crisis. They lie as they have made, corona crisis or not. It is entirely on the moon first to debt the Danes and then to ensure the South Europeans lower taxes, a lower retirement age and a continued unsustainable welfare system. The conclusion is clear: the European Union is the gift of hate that continues to give. Thank you for the floor and I made it within the time available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145901	It was so nice. Thank you to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party and then the Minister for Finance will have the last word.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624145911	Thank you for that and also thank you for a good debate. I can say very clearly: the government will go to the negotiations to defend Danish interests, and we will do so by providing, on the one hand, a contribution to solidarity for those countries that have been hardest hit by covid-19, but at the same time also doing so in the way that we think is wisest. We think it is sensible for us to be able to grant loans to the countries most affected, but we also think that the best thing would be for the countries concerned to repay the money they borrow themselves. There are other countries that have a different view on this, and that is why we now have a very tough debate ahead of us, where we, together with the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden and perhaps other countries, will draw in the direction that the compromise that is being reached will be based as much as possible on what could be called traditional loans and as little as possible on subsidies. I think that is also in relation to the discussion that was raised by Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen that there is a need for cohesion between the four countries. 'Cause that's right, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen said that the recent proposal from the Commission is not moving in the direction that we think is the most appropriate and what will benefit Europe. My point was then that I do not think we would have been more successful in dragging the Commission in our direction if we had stood alone and not with the other countries. That is why we will continue to cooperate with them, because I think that is in Denmark's interest. Then I hope we can stand together. Although there are different views on the mandate that has been given, I think there is still a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament who is very, very concerned that we have a good negotiating position for Denmark, and that applies regardless of who is the Prime Minister of Denmark. When he or she goes to EU summits, he or she needs support on the home front, and that must be my strong call for everyone to contribute to it. There may be things we look at differently, but it is Denmark's interests that this is about, and the government will take very, very seriously, and not only will we be aware of Denmark's interest, but we will also be concerned that we will get the whole European Union well through this crisis. That is why we are helping, and it is also in Denmark's interest to do so. So, in those words, I would like to thank you for a good debate and thank you for the parties that have given the government a mandate. I hope that next time a mandate is given, there will be even more on that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150225	Thank you for the floor. The debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 25 June 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150234	We shall now proceed to Question Time. And I'll tell you that by Mr. Knox... Hans Andersen under nr. Question No 13 1495 for the Minister for Employment to be removed from the agenda at the request of the author. The question shall be put to written answer. I should also like to inform the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal is in line with the Commission's proposals. Stén Knuth under nr. Question No 20 1492, until the Minister for Culture withdraws at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150307	It may be that the conversants can pull out a little bit. The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 1470.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150335	Please read it out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150337	Thank you. I read the question and it is this: can the Minister state how it is possible for a Pakistani special aircraft from Islamabad on 6 June 2020 to be allowed to land at Copenhagen Airport and drop 318 passengers, of which at least 16 were infected with covid-19, and can the Minister inform the people's ancestry and recognised purposes in Denmark, as well as who decided that the plane had to land in Denmark and that passengers could go through the airport control without being tested for the covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150415-2	Thank you for the question. For the sake of good order, I should like to begin by stressing that the rules on air traffic, including the regulation of the arrival of aircraft in Denmark, are the responsibility of the Minister for Transport and, at the same time, the action on infection and contact tracing in relation to the covid-19 is the responsibility of the Minister for Health. The specific case where a number of infected persons have entered Denmark shows that the exceptional situation of covid-19 is certainly not over. It is still necessary to proceed in accordance with a precautionary principle, and we must not open too much or too early, certainly not in relation to borders. I understand that as the rules are now, it is not illegal for an aircraft to land in Denmark. So there are no restrictions which prevent aircraft from flying to and countries in Denmark under this condition, I assume that they comply with the rules that now apply to air services. However, the regulation has led to restrictions on entry, so that not everyone can enter Denmark, and so it is independent of whether it is arrival at the airport or the border or elsewhere. The restrictions mean, among other things, that one must have a recognised purpose if one is not a Danish citizen or is resident in Germany, Iceland or Norway. As the honourable Member will be aware, from Saturday 27 June, that is to say on Saturday, we will be moving towards objective criteria for the European Union, the Schengen area and the United Kingdom. But at the heart of the answer is that what regulates this question is, in fact, what kind of worthy purpose we accept in terms of allowing people to enter the country. I am not aware of the specific aircraft or the persons who have been on the plane, but I can generally inform you that the police are of course checking whether incoming passengers fulfil the applicable conditions for entry to Denmark, i.e. whether you are a Danish national or whether you have a recognised purpose. Finally, I should like to say that it is not a requirement for entry into Denmark that you have to take a test. However, at the time of the opening of the border on 15 June, testing offers were made at several of the borders, including: at Kastrup airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150621	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150622	Thank you. The question has been asked, and the Minister can guess on a background that states that the Danish population has been very surprised by the corona virus, and so is the authorities, and that is why Denmark has been shut down for a period of time. We have all had to conform to the rules and guidelines that have come from the authorities. The children have not been to school etc. etc. Against this background, it seems surprising, to say the least, to such people as us, who have also been involved in listening to the government's assessments in these contexts, that suddenly a plane arrives from Islamabad, that is, from a country where it is estimated that it can hold the risk of carriers of infection from a completely different environment, in a completely different way, so that we get exactly what our authorities have warned about if we open the borders. I would therefore like to ask whether it is not quite obvious to the Minister and to the government that this situation has not been properly dealt with. When you think of how rigid rules, which have just been for interpersonal relations, are being quarantined for 14 days on return from covid-19 areas, does it not also seem critical to the government that you suddenly get a plane in from an area from which there may be a risk of a great deal of infection, and that is to say, that there are very many people infected with corona? I would also like to ask whether we want to update the rules on these matters, because the Minister is certainly right when it is said that every plane can land, but it is not every plane's passengers who should be allowed to walk into society and start an infection by the Danes when we have just tried to shut off that infection. Does the Minister not agree that something is wrong here and that we must get to grips with it? Will the government take care of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150830	Well, let me start by saying that I fully agree with the production of the extensive decommissioning of Denmark that happened. And when we closed the borders, we said in the same rush: but there are some who must be allowed to enter Denmark even when the borders are closed. That is why we made a list of worthy purposes. After all, it was people who live or work in Denmark, including self-employed people, people with work permits, of course, spouses, regular couples, parents, children of a Dane etc. So it has been said that if you have such a worthy purpose, you must be allowed to enter Denmark even if we are a closed country or a country that is shut down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150912-2	That's right. And then I would like to ask the Minister whether it has been ensured that the people who are on this plane have so-called worthy of recognition when they arrive in Denmark and are therefore allowed to be slugged into society and why, when they come from an area such as Pakistan, they have not ensured that the 14-day quarantine will be initiated. Because we're seeing a huge development of infection from the people who come on this plane. Finally, is it a worthy purpose to seek asylum in Denmark? Does the Minister consider that to be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624150950	The latter, I think, would prefer to reply in writing, because I simply cannot remember on a stand-by basis whether it is a worthy purpose to seek asylum. So I will not go into an answer to that here. But it is also the case that we say that if you discover that someone is infected, the authorities will act proactively and take hold of them and address the people with whom they have been in contact, in order to ensure that we can detect infection and combat the spread of the disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151028	Now I ask again I think I've tried to ask before: did the 318 passengers in question on this plane have recognized purposes in Denmark • yes or no? And have they been quarantined in connection with their arrival at Copenhagen Airport? And were there asylum seekers on the plane that subsequently applied for asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151055	I do not know specifically if there has been. It is my view that this has not been the case, as I understand it, there has not been. As far as quarantine is concerned, and it is not because I do not want to answer the question, but when three questions are asked in one question and you have 20 seconds, you are a little in the hands of the gentleman there is generally a call to stay at home for 14 days if you come home from one of the places where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against all unnecessary journeys. So the call is for that to be done. That also applies if you come home from Pakistan. So that's the call.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151129	Thank you. The question has been answered. So we say thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. The next question is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, who also has to ask questions to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151141	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151142	Thank you. Hello, Minister. What does it take for the Minister to change the rules so that foreign tourists can travel to Denmark without having to book a minimum of six nights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151153	Thank you for the question. When we are currently demanding that as a tourist in Denmark stay for at least six nights, it is basically about the fact that, as part of the gradual opening, we want to limit the risk that those who enter Denmark are infected people who can start new chains of infection. And there is the requirement for a six-day stay to ensure that we keep the number of visitors down a little. Of course, it also helps to ensure how much fluctuation there can be, because then you have to have six nights. Although we are in the process of reopening, I think it is important to remember that, as I also said in relation to the question I have just answered, the corona crisis is certainly not over. We are still seeing new cases of infection at home and abroad, and we have also seen how countries that had begun to open up have had to reintroduce restrictions. That is why we must continue to proceed in a controlled manner. Having said that, we must not, of course, hold on to the restrictions on entry any longer than is necessary. The Government will therefore also continue to monitor developments closely and, in this context, to decide on the possibility of adjusting the restrictions on entry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151308	Thank you for your answer. I simply did not understand what exactly it is necessary for the Minister to change this decision. So, I understand you're following developments and blablabla, but what's going to happen before the Minister decides to drop this requirement for at least six nights? I ask because the Minister's good colleague, the Minister for Industry, has just informed the Danish Parliament that when you look at the consumption of overnight German, Norwegian and Icelandic tourists last year, you see that they actually had a consumption of 9.8 billion. kr.; of which about a third were from the part of those who were here for less than 6 days. So the Minister's insistence on a minimum of six nights costs 3.3 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151405	I'm sure the numbers are right. I have no reason to doubt that, and I also believe it is true that there has been a turnover of 3.3 billion. kr. linked to the tourists who are mentioned. Now you cannot know if everyone is going away, given the situation, there are certainly also some Danes who are taking holidays at home, who otherwise had not. But it is quite true that on the one hand there are economic considerations, and on the other, of course, there is the need not to re-initiate new infection. As we were just talking about in connection with the plane that came from Pakistan, there is a risk that when people come to the country, we will start new chains of infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151441	Yeah, it was a plane that came from Pakistan. What we're talking about in relation to this question is the intention to demand six nights of nights stopped, for example. to say that three nights would be appropriate. There it is, then, that I ask what needs to be done in order for the Minister to be able to accept a demand, for example. Just three nights instead of six. I simply find it difficult to find out how the limit on the pressure of infection is related to whether you require three nights or six nights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151517	But it is not the case that we say that the six nights should be in the same place. You can, for example. have three nights at a hotel here in Copenhagen and then have three nights out in the country. What is required is that there should be six nights together, and it is an attempt to find ways to prevent us from getting new chains of infection into the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151540	Thank you. Then it is co-questioner Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151542	Thank you. I would like to stress that we are all concerned with ensuring that borders are opened in a health-friendly manner. That is why I am very pleased that the government has now changed its focus and that objective criteria, objective data, have just been changed to open up to tourists. But then it goes wrong for my understanding of what the government is actually doing. Because I simply cannot find out what it is for health assessments, calculations, data showing that there is less risk of infection if you stay for six days in Denmark than if you are staying for example. 2 or 3 days in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151635	There is no such evidence-based truth in that either. So what the health authorities are saying to us in connection with the border openings is that if we open the borders, if we invite people in, there is a risk that we will be invited in new chains of infection, which can then spread in the country. We're doing everything we can to avoid this happening. But that is what the risk is, and thus the number that we invite in means, of course, something about what the risk is of us getting new chains of infection. We are seeing places in Denmark where there have been new infection chains in outbreaks, which has led to restrictions being imposed and, fortunately, we are beginning to have a system so that we can track down when there are new infection chains.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151724	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151725	Now we heard in the closing debate the other day the Prime Minister repeat that mistakes will be made and that mistakes have also been made. Excuse me, Minister of Justice, but isn't this a complete mistake? In other words, can the Minister himself not hear how crazy that sounds when it comes to justifying the risk of infection being greater if you stay 2-3 nights in Denmark than if you stay here for 6 nights?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151757	The questioner does not have to apologize, and I think, in fact, that what the Prime Minister meant was that we had made mistakes in the government and not that the opposition has made mistakes. You'll have to explain your own mistakes, and we'll take care of ours. I can easily understand the question, and I would also like to get rid of the 6 nights rule. We constantly assess whether we are in a place where we feel it would be reasonable to do so. It is true that there is virtually no truth saying that it should be 6 nights or that it should be 5 nights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151833	Thank you. Then there is the last question from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151837	But I think I will just use my last question to thank the Minister for being so unlikely to be honest about this decision on a minimum of six nights, because the Minister says it is not an evidence-based truth, that is, it is only the minister's gut feeling. Then the Minister even says in her reply to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs that it is a question whether the Minister feels so we have just got honest talk from the government in this context. It's such a thing about sticking your finger up in the air and saying: Well, okay, we say at least six nights' stays without regard to either the risk of infection, the economy or other things that are common in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151922	Well, it'll probably be tightening up the interpretation of what I said. It is more of a gut feeling, it is here, and so it is, as we have talked about in other contexts too, a balance between different possibilities of opening, where we must always choose what it is for some parts of society that we choose to open and in what tempo we do it. And it is true that it is of course a political decision, whether it is most important to open up to German tourists or whether it is most important to get the nursery schools going or what is the priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624151954	Thank you. The question has been answered. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that has also been asked by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. Here, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152005	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152007	Thank you. What does it take for the Minister to open the remaining border crossings between Denmark and Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152017	Thank you for the question. The fact that the police have closed some of the border crossings is simply due to the fact that it has been necessary to ensure that the police can exercise the necessary control over those who enter. It is about enabling the police to carry out the checks that are necessary. Now we have a place where we can start opening up again, but we still have to keep an eye on who's entering. All restrictions on entry have not been lifted; we are still in the process of reopening. The police must, of course, be able to carry out checks as long as we have restrictions on entry, and this must also be done very much without creating massive queues for Danes on their way home, residents of the border country and visitors from outside. Therefore, the authorities are also closely following developments at the borders. It should be the case that residents in the border country experience a fairly normal everyday life and that the Danes on their way home from vacation should not keep in line for several hours. I also know that the police are focusing on this, and that is why they have already opened two additional daytime border crossings, so there are now five border crossings open during the daytime. In addition, the police will be transferred to random checks if the traffic pressure makes it necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152128	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152129	I very much like the Minister to start all his replies by saying: thank you for the question. That is very kind, but I am sure, however, that the Minister does not mean it. Because if the Minister meant that, then we would be more interested in answering the question. After all, it does not add up when the Minister talks about the desire to avoid long queues and the fact that people have to wait for several hours and then at the same time they do not want to open the other border crossings. We have residents in the border country who have now got a detour of 30 km because the Minister insists on keeping the smaller border crossings closed: 30 km! It is very much in relation to the movements that are otherwise used to across the border in the local area. Now, when you say all this and then justify it by saying that it is a question of how many more people will come to the country, then my question to the Minister is: how many more would there be in the country if the remaining smaller border crossings were opened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152240	Yes, we would not know exactly that if we did not have full-time control, including at all the smaller border crossings, which would require a lot of resources and make police control much more difficult. In fact, we are in a situation where, with the border crossings we have opened, we have ensured that the border crossings, at least most frequent for tourists, are open.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152310	After all, the Minister has acknowledged that mistakes have been made, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs also mentioned. We have seen it about the travel guides, which are now being rushed, because one could well see that it was probably not a very wise decision that had been made about travel guides. Will the same thing happen in relation to opening up the remaining border crossings so that we can really get a positive message here in the coming period, when the government really recognizes that the fact that we are restricting a larger entry into the country is not at all relevant to opening the smaller border crossings?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152355	As the questioner also knows, we would very much like to return to a normal situation, but as long as we have restrictions on entry, we will of course also have to control who comes into the country and ensure that this is done in a way that is to the minimum possible nuisance for those who have to move back and forth across the border, and that is the level we have tried to hit here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152418	Yes, and then we are exactly back in the discussion that we had last Wednesday, I think, that this is a purely resource issue and that the Minister is really not prepared to allocate the resources needed to bring about the normalisation that could be achieved in the area. Then we have discovered that the Minister is shopping around in what reasons are used. In one answer, it is a question of resources to allow the police to carry out random checks, and in the other, it is a question of preventing a larger number from entering the country. The Minister must, of course, decide what kind of argument is going to be used in order to maintain that these border points must be kept closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152503	I think that the wording I used last time was that it was not only now the questioner said that I was probably not happy with the question I have been given. I have spoken and can see that the questioner and the co-questioner have asked me 24 questions, all of them a 6 reply rounds. It gives 144 questions and answers that I have given and to prove my sincere pleasure in having had the opportunity to have this dialogue, I have bought a rose for the questioner and the questioner. Now, unfortunately, the co-questioner has left, so I hope that the questioner will bring the rose and have a very good summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152546	Thank you. Eva Kjer Hansen I have a question yet, don't I?). No, the questioner has no further questions. And I do not know whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it was at least sweet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152556	May I not wish the Minister of Justice a very good summer (Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup) Thank you!). We will return violently after the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152604	Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. There is something to come for there for Mrs Anni Matthiesen. And it's also a question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152614	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152616	What is the Minister's view that there are different guidelines across police circles in relation to the holding of pedestal markets during the Corona crisis, for example? On 14 June 2020, have the police closed the shopkeepers' market in Bork Harbour, while other peddlers' markets have been able to keep open?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152640	It follows from the so-called assembly ban that there is a ban on participating in indoor and outdoor events, events, activities or the like, where there are several 50 people present at the same time. It is based on a concrete assessment of whether squares, flea markets, pedestal markets and the like are covered by the ban on assembly. If, for example, in the case of annual or more seasonal markets, where a wider and not defined circle of persons can set up stalls, the ban on the assembly shall apply as a starting point. are weekly or monthly markets, where local traders sell their goods from separate stalls to which citizens can go, in the same way as shops on a pedestrian street, precisely because, unlike the smaller fixed markets, it can be compared to shops in a pedestrian street. There is guidance on the rules at www.coronasmitte.dk. In view of the criticisms made last week, the National Police sent a letter to police circles about the rules, and it is of course important that the rules are administered in the same way across the country as the questioner mentioned in his question. And I know that the police are doing everything they can to deal with the Corona crisis in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152807	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152808	Yes, thank you. But I am very pleased that a letter has now been sent to the various police circles, because that is exactly what I could see, namely that it has been handled very differently from police circles to police circles. And it is the case that these peddlers also cross the police circle, and they could experience one thing in one market and another in the other market. And there were also examples that if you called it a square, but that it was the same peddlers who were present, it might be possible to do so. It couldn't be done if it was a real peddler's market. Can the Minister say something a little more about • or perhaps emphasize what the guidelines are, e.g. in relation to the organisation of events with Sankthan's fires? Because there I also understand that there have been various reports out, and some have chosen to cancel it, and others have actually implemented it because they thought that just sitting around the fire was okay to be up to 500 participants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624152931	Can I not ask you to have the questions about the Saint Hans-Palestinian fires in writing? I am completely unprepared to have to answer it, and what is the framework for Article 20 questions like this is, of course, that I, as Minister, have to answer what is my position or perception of a matter on the basis of immediately available knowledge. And if I had to answer on the basis of immediately available knowledge, it would be a guess, and the questioner is not served by that. On the other hand, I can see that my time has run out on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153003	Yes, it was a pity, but I will send these examples over in writing, so we will also get the right answers to both scout associations and citizens' associations, etc., which organise various events out there and which, at least now, are very, very much in doubt about what they are allowed and what they are not allowed to do. I know it's a difficult time, but it may also say a little about that, and I hope the Minister will agree with me on how important it is that there are clear guidelines. I hope the Minister can confirm this is one of the major problems with which there have been major problems here during the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153039	Well, I find it regrettable that there have been different handlings. Of course, it needs to be handled equally, and I know the police have now followed up in relation to peddlers' markets and the like. And all I have to do is encourage those who need to know about the rules to enter the website coronasmitte.dk, where we try to explain it. And then it is true that in it coronatid is constantly being confronted with new questions that we are going to relate to; situations that have not been before. We are, of course, trying to anticipate them as well as possible, but when faced with new questions, we are trying to figure out how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153114	In other words, what I can certainly welcome is that the promoters and volunteers who are behind it, for example. the market in Bork Harbour, hopefully it has become wiser this week, and hopefully it will also have an opportunity to hold the market on Sunday again as usual. For what they have been subjected to, I do not think has been right, because there has simply been so much doubt as to what guidelines were actually applied in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153142	I am not sufficiently familiar with the specific circumstances surrounding the situation of the peddler market in Bork Harbour. As I understand it, there has been dialogue with the police, and I should just call for this to continue if there is any doubt: engage in dialogue with the police so that help can be provided to understand the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153202	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Justice and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen. The next question is to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply by Mrs Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153211	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153213	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the Danish Energy Agency's basic projection of the development of the sale of electric cars is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153225	Now a base projection is per. definition neither satisfactory nor unsatisfactory, for it is just a basic projection in the eyes of the goose, i.e. an attempt to give a scientific and professional projection of what to expect a development will be. But I think that is probably not what the question means either. The question is more likely to be understood in such a way as to have an assessment of whether we are on the right path or not on the right path. And I have to say that it certainly looks better now than it did just a year ago, since the projection shows approx. 380,000 electric cars on Danish roads in 2030, and that is nearly 100,000 more than expected last year. This is probably due both to the fact that things are happening out there in the marketplace, but in particular to the fact that the government is pursuing a rather different policy from that of the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153322	There is no doubt that we in the Left believe that, for the sake of green conversion, a low registration fee for electric cars is important, but, above all, that there is clarity about registration fees for electric cars. Because if we are to work towards a climate-neutral Denmark, we have to have greener cars, and of which electric cars make up a great deal. But right now, there is no guarantee of proper conditions. The bottom allowance is going to disappear completely next year, and the registration fee is going to rise significantly from 20%. 65 per cent. The industry has been saying for a long time that they wanted clarity on the rules, and in the Left we have also put pressure on that to happen, among other things. in a motion for a resolution in this Chamber, which was unfortunately voted down, among other things. Of course, we think that is bad for the sale of electric cars. Now the Minister says so well that the basic projection looks good, and I would like to get it a little further. Well, what exactly is the baseline projection for electric cars saying? Now the Danish Energy Agency has come up with their expectations for the sale of electric cars. Can the Minister tell us what the sales look like in the future, that is to say what the sales look like? And when is it expected that the level of electric car sales here by 2020 will be the same again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153441	I simply did not understand the latter, i.e. when the level of electric car sales by 2020 will be the same again. I simply do not understand what is meant by that, so the questioner has to elaborate on it. The Energy Agency's base projection is freely available on the web. We have also sent it over, of course, and we can also manage a technical examination by the experts if they wish. What it shows is what is expected with frozen policy, that is to say with the policy that is already in place, plus, of course, taking into account different trends in the market, and that other things will happen. But I have expressed myself wrong if the questioner has the impression that I think that is enough. I don't think so. I just note that this government is already looking better in its seat, after only a year, than it did when the author's party was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153530	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153533	I have to say that I am very surprised that the Minister may think that it looks better. In fact, what we can see in the basic projection is that we expect a fall in the sale of electric cars, and that is actually what I would like the Minister to comment on. And that is also why I ask: when do you expect the sale of electric cars to be the same again? The problem with the policy pursued by the government is, of course, that electricity sales have been stalled because the terms of the charges are not known next year. And that is why I would also like to follow up on the question: has it been regretted that no clear guidelines for the sale of electric cars after 2020 have been established?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153608	[Sound emission]...what was asked about. The figure to which I refer is, of course, the figure that will be foreseen by 2030. The precise conditions up to 2030 are, of course, not now established. This year, with the 2020 Finance Act, we secured calm on car taxes by extending tax reductions for electric cars. In addition, we have made various initiatives about charging stations etc. What is, of course, the slightly unknown person here, as the questioner well knows, is that we are waiting for a car committee to advise us on this. I think that the questioner may think it is a very good idea that we are actually listening to that Commission, since it was the author's party that set it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153645	But is it not true that the expectation is that the sale of electric cars will fall because there is no clarity about the registration fee? And does the Minister not therefore regret the fact that no legislation has been put forward to ensure registration fees after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153703	So I have answered that question. What is important to understand here, I think, is that this is a prognosis for if we do nothing. We're going to do something. We even intend to do so on a qualified basis, and we even intend to show the former government the respect of saying that setting up such a car commission was not, after all, the stupidest thing they did. Because it is actually talented people who sit and calculate what can be done, from some, we think, actually quite reasonable conditions. That is why we will listen to them before we decide what we should do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153739	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. And thank you to Mrs. Marie Bjerre. The question is closed. The next person to ask questions is sir. Per Larsen. He has to ask questions to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and the first question is S 1462.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153756	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153757	Thank you. I read out the question: what is the Minister's position on systematic testing of our elderly and nursing staff, so that we prevent the outbreak of covid-19 in the country's nursing home?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624153816	With the establishment of the social track in the national test strategy in the form of Test Centre Denmark, we have significantly strengthened the overall test capacity, and the latest figure is that in the last 24 hours we have tested 20,690 people. The overall test set-up, which I have been informed, with the building up of the high test capacity, monitoring of the infection in society and offensive detection, is the whole foundation for gradually opening up and increasing the activity in society and for maintaining that opening up and increasing activity. We see the importance of this now that we see the emergence of local infection in areas where there has been no infection for a long period of time. We had already in the early phase of building the social track a focus on testing precisely, as the questioner has said, the front staff to prevent covid-19 i e.a. the municipal health and elderly sector, because it is this group that is in daily contact with vulnerable people. The municipality of Hjørring was actually among the first municipalities to get this offer to test the care staff when Testcenter Denmark was established. Since then, as you know, we have generally opened up for tests, and as part of the standing offer of tests today, the care staff already have the opportunity to be tested regularly. My position is that we need to have an increased and more systematic test of elderly people and nursing staff in the municipalities in order to prevent the outbreak of covid-19 among particularly vulnerable citizens. Therefore, we are working with the municipalities to find a model in which all our care staff are tested regularly, but graduated according to the risk of infection in each municipality, so that we do not unduly take staff away from their important task of caring for the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154019	Thank you for your answer. That's a step on the way. Like the Minister, I have many intentions that we make sure that we keep the covid-19 as much in check as possible, so that the infection is detected, contained and defeated as well as we can now. It has to be said that the nursing homes, we can see, are a very vulnerable place where it can flare up violently. As I hear the Minister, at least one step has been taken in relation to testing. You are doing this quite systematically in Germany, as I understand it. What will then be important is, of course, that there is no undue absence of time from the care staff. So what I would like is for you to make some mobile devices that come out to the nursing staff and simply do that test. Now I'm glad that we're up to a total test of 20,000 in Denmark, but doesn't the minster think that this is a group of elderly people and care staff, which it would be quite targeted and at national level would be an advantage to follow development in order to see how things are going in the population group, which is in close contact with really, very many people every day?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154142-2	Yeah, I mean that. That is why we are working to introduce a model which has such a basic element of continuous testing of this group, i.e. the care of the elderly by front workers, among other things. Our municipalities, which therefore in general in Denmark continuously tested with a certain range. When there are municipalities where we have major outbreaks we have that in concrete terms, among other things. Hjørring, and there are also a couple of other municipalities to make the model so that you can test more intensively. And I am familiar specifically in Hjørring tested three times in 10 days. There has really been intensive testing. So, yeah, I mean that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154221	Now I know the situation in Hjørring, for I live in Hjørring myself, and I have actually been entertaining when I've been over here, that in North Jutland there was no covid-19 anymore we were free. There was a long period in which not a single positive test was tested, although a large degree of testing is being carried out today. However, the situation is just that we did not see that suddenly there was actually a quite strong outbreak, and if a systematic testing of the nursing staff had been planned, it would probably have been possible to avoid, or at least minimize, the outbreak that we have now seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154303	Thank you. The minister. Per Larsen Yes, I don't know if it takes an answer).
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154305	That's right. North Jutland has been almost completely free of infection, and we have the map we also post publicly where you can see that there has been no infection. And then it came with great haste, and we can now see that the infection chain in Hjørring is connected with, or at least is connected to, I can certainly say the connection to a mink farm too. This shows just how incredibly difficult the work we are facing is, but it does not change the fact that work needs to be taken seriously. And the consistent, constant, meticulous review and recurrent tests, even if you think there is no danger, must also be part of our tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154345	Thank you. That actually leads me to the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154349	Okay, so the questioner doesn't want the last round but wants to move on to the next question? Good. Then we move on to the next question, which is S 1463, also to the Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154400	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154403	Thank you. This is a little linked to the fact that you cannot get so much into a single question. But the question, in all its simplicity, is: will the Minister call for negotiations to create systematic testing of the elderly and nursing staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154415	If the questioner means negotiations with KL and Danske Regionser, there have already, even today, been meetings and discussions at official level about a system to be set up, and I have had meetings every Monday with the presidents of the five regions where it has also been a point that has been reversed. The concrete model is now being drawn up at official level together with those organisations. If the author refers to a political debate here in the Danish Parliament, I interpret the agreement between the parties of the Danish Parliament, which also refers to an offensive test strategy, and I believe that it is in this sense the implementation of an offensive test strategy to make this happen. So I will estimate that when it is soon, and I hope it will be soon, and I hope it will be a good model that will be found with the municipalities and our regions and test centre Denmark and the relevant agencies can then come into force, it will be a coinciding of the words contained in the political agreement that there should be an offensive test setup. Therefore, my assessment is that we do not need a political debate with parties here, but that it is purely practical work experience, but nevertheless practice where there are several different regional, municipal and national authorities to coordinate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154555	Thank you. I agree with that. I also interpret the agreements we have made in the past, in other words that it is within the minister's discretion and competence to translate such things. But what I am thinking of in relation to further tests is, of course, if it is the case that we get a greater spread. After all, we could risk a flare up in many parts of the country. Is this something you are working on, i.e. systematic testing of elderly people and nursing staff, if it is the case that outbreaks are actually taking place widely across the country? The gods forbid it, but it can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154640	Yeah, we'll say. There is still huge uncertainty and uncertainty about how the disease will develop, and that is why we need to prepare ourselves. It's not to paint the hell on the wall, but we have to do that. That means that, including, of course, we have to do what we can to discover it in time, make sure that we have a very fine masked network and track down everything we can, but also systematically have a testing of employees who are with our vulnerable citizens. And you can then turn it up, depending on how the infection moves, and it's based on numbers that can be updated at week level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154716-2	In this context, I would also like to point out that it takes quite a lot of resources to test widely and systematically. Because if we are to prevent the time of the nursing staff and what they now need to take care of, then we need to establish something with mobile devices that can come out and make sure that they are tested. You have to do so so, so that there is no time left for what employees in the care of the elderly should otherwise take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154750	Yes, and I fully agree with that. It is one of the things that has come to most recently in Testcenter Denmark, i.e. the white tents, that mobile devices have been connected here also thanks to official cooperation with, among others. private companies. This means that when you are going to test it makes good sense to plan it, and that is something that happens in concrete terms right now at the meetings that are, with KL and with Danske Regions, who have the employees • KL have the employees who have to be tested • where you find out how to do it practically. And in many places it will be most relevant to drive a car and have people tested at their workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154827	Then there is the final question to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154832	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154835	Okay. Thank you, sir. Per Larsen, and thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education, Mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154843	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154844	Thank you. In view of the fact that more local upper secondary education is seriously in need at the moment, what will the Minister do to prevent young people from opting out in future because of transport time or lack of supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624154859	Well, the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will be relatively involved in this, in other words what is going to happen in this area. For this is one of the areas where we look into a period when we have to look at both a taximeter system, that is, the way in which education institutions are financed, and also have to look at the distribution of pupils, including capacity ceilings, which some of the tools that have to be considered when we come across the summer holiday. The way it is today is 90%. the contribution of the institutions depending on the number of pupils you have, and the number of pupils in the outskirts falls towards 2030. That is why the government has taken the first steps, first and foremost, to abolish the savings made by the previous government on education. It is important enough that if you see a reduction in education every year, it will not be easier when you face these problems. We have made a temporary stop to mergers, but with the incredibly crucial crack that if a merger is needed to maintain a training offer in a sparsely populated area, it is possible to continue to merge well. It is just to say that we have already addressed parts of it, but we also need a future-proof institutional policy and a subsidy system that supports the provision of education. I believe that educational provision is and must be the beating heart of a community, whether we are talking about primary schools or we are talking about upper secondary education. And there has to be a lot more of that. In other words, we have seen a high degree of centralisation across all possible sections of the public sector over the past decades, and it does not benefit a local community. And here both schools and youth education institutions play a crucial role. So it is with those glasses that we are going into it, and fortunately I have so far heard that as parties we see something similar in the direction of movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155052	Thank you. I'm glad. Because the situation is deeply problematic in large parts of the country, and youth education is hard pressed. This is true, for example. in South Jutland, where I come from. Here more and more high schools and vocational education and training students are losing their jobs. This is true, for example. in vocational training in Esbjerg, but also in Vejen, Grindsted and Kolding and in many other places in secondary schools and vocational training, to name but a few. So it is quite wrong in the smaller towns, where there is also a long way to go between places of education. At Esbjerg Gymnasium alone, and Esbjerg is probably the biggest city in South Jutland, the high school has had to fire six teachers, and two teachers have had to choose to retire to make it work together. Two years ago, Esbjerg's preparatory vocational school went bankrupt. In other words, the situation is quite serious. At the same time, we are in that particular paradox, because the number of young people without training is growing and, at the same time, the economy lacks labour. I would therefore like to give young people the opportunity to receive youth education in South Jutland, and I am, of course, very, very pleased that the Minister shares this view. That is also why we agreed from the radical side to set aside more money for that we pressed quite forcefully for, I would say, and we removed the meter. But my question is therefore: what does the Minister intend to do to make it attractive for young people to go on a youth education course? It may then be upper secondary school, vocational training or other activities in an area such as South and South Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155221	I think we are going to move a little outside the question, but if I am going to answer that question appropriately, I would say that I think the most important thing in this respect is to ensure that there are enough apprenticeships. That is why the government has had a trialogue here in relation to Corona, which has points of reference for the negotiations that are to take place immediately after the summer recess, where we are trying to tackle the problem of 16-year-olds today who are responsible for obtaining an apprenticeship. Of course it is with the help of some adults, but it is ultimately the 16-year-old who is responsible. We must have that responsibility transferred to some adult shoulders instead, and I think that is one of the main obstacles to starting vocational training, that is to say the fear of not getting an apprenticeship, and that is one of the main reasons why we are falling away.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155305	I would say that my question was what would be done to ensure that education could be provided, even if there were long transport times and a lack of supply. In Tønder Municipality, for example, there is an average of 17.7 km to the nearest high school, and although there is also a high school in the city, there are also other places the young people want to go. In some places it is even worse • young people must commute far, they find it difficult to participate in social life in schools and do not have that flexibility in scheduling, theme days etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155356	There are really two ways to go. I want education to go further, and then I think that what we need to focus very closely on is precisely the journey time, not the number of kilometres, because we can see from the studies that have been made that where the problem arises is not if there are many kilometres, but if there is a long journey time. Now I myself come from an area where there was no high school and where we had to be transported every day, and I should like to say that if you came on one of the slow buses, 20 km could take an hour or something like that. So this means that it is very much about thinking the transport system into the institutional planning we are doing, and that is one of the things we will also be looking at in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155434	I am delighted because in a place like Grindsted Gymnasium, just to take another example, there has been a decline in the number of pupils recorded by almost 20%. In 2020, and of course, everything cannot be explained by the fact that fewer young people are going to be able to opt out of youth education. What will the Minister do to ensure that we retain the youth education that is and make them more attractive?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155459	I simply do not want them to compete. I believe that the biggest mistake we have made in our education system over the last few decades is that it has been turned into a competitive situation. Schools must work together to create a good supply of education rather than to compete with each other. So with regard to making things attractive, I would say that it is not a grocery store, it is an educational system, and that means that we must ensure that there is easily accessible education in all parts of Denmark, and that the educational institutions as the most natural thing in the world make sure that the gaps left by each of them are closed because they cooperate instead of fighting for the outermost pupils, because that is what the taximeter system is designed for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155536	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education, and thank you to Mr. Nils Sjøberg. The question has been answered. The next question is to the Minister for Defence, and that is what Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155548	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155549	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's view that Denmark needs a new defence industrial strategy, and does the Minister agree that it is a major security interest for Denmark to have a strong and well-functioning Danish defence industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155608	I'd like to thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted to ask a specific question, and I will sign with a concrete answer. For yes, I believe there is a need for an update of the national defence industrial strategy, and yes, I fully agree that it is a major security interest for Denmark to have a strong and well-functioning Danish defence industry. The defence-industrial strategy is from 2014, and neither security policy nor technological developments have stood still since. The world around us is changing with increasing speed and becoming significantly more unpredictable. The scale and complexity of the international threat picture is increasing in line with the shifts of global power. At the same time, we are seeing rapid development in the field of defence technology. The global race to transform defence technologies into concrete solutions places great demands on defence. It also makes demands on the Danish defence industry if it is to be able to maintain and further develop the right competences and continue to offer competitive products and services. This requires a broad national effort, which underlines the importance of a national strategy. I want defence acquisitions to be carried out with the greatest possible involvement of Danish suppliers, and I want us to prepare as soon as possible what elements should be included in the update of the strategy. In this respect, I welcome the initiative and, in conclusion, I would like to call for the constructive dialogue on the strategy to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155757	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624155758	Thank you for your answer. And it is actually quite good and nice that the Minister for Defence agrees with me and the Danish People's Party that there is a need to strengthen the defence industry in Denmark and the use of it, and that a new strategy is needed. What was then missing in the answer • and it may be that it is coming along the way, and it may also be that it will come later • is, of course, how we will get a job started to build up a new defence strategy. Because when we are to have a well-functioning defence industry, I am a little sorry that we hear that the defence industry in Denmark seems less responsive on the part of the Minister for Defence and that it is difficult for companies to have a meeting with the Minister on the subject than it was with previous defence ministers. When the companies have that experience, it is a sign that it is really necessary to set in motion a work where we build up a new defence strategy and that we have a collaboration with the companies we now have that are able to deliver products for the Danish defence. Because we have to remember that if they feel that they are constantly being pushed aside by the Secretary of Defense, and who now sits and controls it in this context • It may also be one of the agencies under the Ministry of Defence who sits and manages purchases and such things • It is even more important when we get started with the defence strategy that we build it up in relation to what we need the Danish defence industry for, and how we should involve it more in cooperation with building up a strong defence. And then time's up in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160000	Yeah. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160002	I think I experience a good dialogue with the defence industry in Denmark. I have attended meetings with them and have also been present on the material day of the defense. It is true that there have just been a few months when we have not been able to visit each other very much. I think everyone understands that. But that does not change the fact that if someone has kicks in, they are very, very welcome to send them in; that applies to both political kicks, and that also applies to industrial kicks. And I hope that this will be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160037	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160039	It also has a bit to do with the fact that companies have felt that if there are new orders to be placed because you have to have some new equipment, there has always been the fact that we are sending them in EU tenders. It's not being used to the extent that they can handle, so we're not saying that we're keeping our shopping at home in the same way that we're now doing with these multi-target ships, that is, keeping it at home and keeping everything we can at home. That is what we can do in relation to the European Union when it comes to Denmark's interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160113	In connection with the update of the defence-industrial strategy, I think that it is a political attitude that it would be natural to take a broader look at the possibilities of applying Article 346 of the Treaty on European Union. It's the one that is about protecting important Danish security interests, for example through national calls for tenders, so I think it's perfectly obvious and if you ask me, I want it to be a central part of the update. However, we must also be aware that there are some rules of contract law that we cannot just run over. There are some rules we have to follow if we don't want a case on our hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160151	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160152	Well, far along the way, I agree with the Minister that we should keep a lot at home, and in the Danish People's Party we are happy to support ensuring that we have a strong defence industry and that we also use it. There are these rules about sending in EU tenders. We can just see how other European countries • Germany, France • do not send in tenders. They say that it is in their national interest for war equipment, and then they keep it at home, and then they do not have to send it in tenders. That is clear. If it is of defence interest to Denmark, then you can produce it at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160227-2	So, my position is clear: as much as possible as we can keep in Danish hands and which is of Danish security interest, must be kept at home. However, we cannot make a general deviation from the rules on tendering. This will lead to both me and Denmark getting a case on their necks. But that does not change the fact that we can easily make the new strategy sharper, that it is a criterion that needs to be included. That is something I want, and we can then allow that to be included in the further dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160259	Then we'll thank the Secretary of Defense, and we'll thank him. Bent Bøgsted. I thought I had one more question). No, unfortunately, there isn't. Is that cut down?). No, I think we've used it all, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The cruisers show that's how it is. It has been such a good debate that that must be the reason. It's all right here. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Education and Research, and the question has been asked by Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160332	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160336	Thank you. I was thinking that in my first year I should also have time to ask the Minister questions on Wednesdays. My question is this: what does the Minister intend to do about the development of a product that is in competition with the products of private companies by a GTS Institute (DHI) for public funds and continues to market this product?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160354	I assume that the question refers to the supervisory case carried out by the Agency for Institutions and Training Support in 2019 to the GTS Institute DHI. A GTS institute has the possibility to apply for public funds for the further development of the Institute's technological infrastructure and knowledge base from the Board of Institutions and Training Support. One of the prerequisites for receiving and using public funds is that the technological solution in question is not created by the market itself. A GTS institution must, as it were, be ahead of the market when it develops technology for public funds. In the particular case, the Board received information from a private company which gave rise to the Board's so-called supervision of the GTS Institute DHI. Specifically, the issue is that DHI had applied for funds to develop a digital tool to predict the consequences of cloud breach, namely the product Flood Screener. In the supervisory case, the Authority pointed out that DHI should have indicated in the application for funds that there was already a private product on the market, namely the cloudbreak card. Where there is already a relevant product on the market, the GTS Institute is not entitled to apply to the Board for public support for development. On the basis of the supervision, the Board has expressed its criticism that DHI has infringed the applicable guidelines on the use of public funds by a GTS institution. The conclusion is that DHI has wrongly received aid amounting to a total of 887,022 DKK. The agency has requested that the amount be repaid, and DHI has done so. I have noted that the supervision of the Board has led to DHI having paid back the public funds. In addition, the Management Board will clarify the obligations of a GTS institution in a new GTS Order, which is expected to be consulted in the autumn and to enter into force on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160553	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160555	Thank you. There is no doubt that I think that we stand best and strongest in good public-private cooperation. Now the Minister is standing next to another minister who at least thinks it too, I imagine. I also think that we are best placed to ensure that the misuse of public funds is combated. At least we can agree on that, I think. I also have the view that it is best to carry out as many public tasks as possible. I don't know if we can agree on that. Unfortunately, however, I do not have to look for bad examples. It actually comes in with them sometimes, and it goes on everything from outright competing products and services to amazement and disappointment, for example, about. the lack of desire and willingness of the public authorities to involve individuals or even to receive gifts. Most recently, we have seen several private companies throwing everything they had into their hands and developing infectious apps and giving them away, but they have not even received answers from the authorities. Of course, they think it has been demotivating to see the state ignore their representations and, above all, to see the tasks offered afterwards and paid for and then launched, ridiculously long after the need was first time. Unfortunately, I also come across cases such as the one I am bringing forward here and which, as far as I am concerned, are ultimately about the misuse of public funds, i.e. state aid, to develop a directly competing product for a private provider. I simply do not think that is fair. I am also listening to the Minister's statement that this has also been clearly acknowledged by the board. But then what? Now it is established, and DHI has to pay those who are nearly 900,000 kroner. I do not know the exact amount, as the Minister could have said himself that they have used for development. But are there no further consequences? Does the Minister not consider that it is unreasonable that the subsidised product is still a direct competitor of the private sector and does the Minister not think that further action should be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160743	Thank you. There is no doubt that our country, our labour market and our companies will win if the really great development power that we have in our educational institutions and in our research environments gets closer to getting out and living in our businesses. We have recently received an evaluation that shows that we have world-class research and that we have an entrepreneurial business, but that we have many things that fall into a hole, and there are indeed GTS institutions playing a very important role in binding those links closer together. That is why I think they are important to have. However, it is very, very crucial that this does not happen in a way that will enable them to carry out tasks for public funds which the private sector itself could solve. That is why this is a very, very important matter of principle, in which I am pleased that the decision has been taken in the way it is, in order to emphasise that of course we must not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160839	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160840	I agree that BTS institutions are very important, but does the Minister consider it reasonable that DHI should continue to market and sell their product, which has been developed on public funds and which continues to receive public funds in the further contract, or do they get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160902	The principle of having to pay back the money is precisely that it has not been for public funds, and it is an important principle line to draw that this has been done against their education. It is not allowed to apply for this money if there is already something on the market that is privately developed, and that is why it has of course also been met with a refund claim. Once that money has been repaid in return, it has been for DHI's own private money.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160938	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160939	Does DHI have its own funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624160942	There's a lot of private money, and fortunately in this system, too, the vast majority. So fortunately, there's a mix of public and private in this exact area, and that's what we want more of. Now the Minister of Business sits next door. We want these two worlds to merge more closely, and the knowledge that is, we want to get into our businesses. I think we can be much better at that, and there are others. part of the solution, after all, the GTS.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161014	Then we thank the Minister for Education and Research, and thank Mrs Juul. And this is sir. Kim Valentin, Left, who was allowed to ask questions to the Minister for Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161030	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161034	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's view of the fact that there are still self-employed people and companies who have not received an answer to their requests for compensation from the aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161050-2	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the vast majority of those who have applied for compensation have already received answers. Moreover, many of the cases that have not yet been settled are only a few days old, and it is important to maintain that this is the case. I should therefore also like to mention the current figures. For the wage compensation scheme, money has been paid out to 98 per cent. by undertakings which have applied for and are covered by the scheme. Among the 98 per cent. there are then some companies that have applied several times and are still waiting for answers to the latest application. In the case of selfemployed persons, the corresponding figure is 96 per cent. The figure is lower for freelancers and combinators, where it is 86 per cent respectively. 56 per cent of the money has been paid out. The relatively low number among the combinators is due, among other things, to the fact that this group often has a complex composition of income. For the fixed-cost compensation scheme, 77 per cent is paid. the money was paid out. We currently have an average processing time of approx. 8 days for those cases which do not require further information or need to be monitored. I think that is actually very good, given that this is a rather complicated arrangement. If, however, there are a number of companies and self-employed people waiting a long time for a final answer to their application, it is, of course, regrettable. However, there are often very good reasons why the procedure should be extended, although this does not, of course, make it easier for those who are waiting. But it can, among other things. be about that the original application that has been sent in has some shortcomings. In these cases, it may be necessary for the caseworker to contact the applicant and in some cases the applicant will have to provide additional information before the application goes through. It may also be because the application raises some questions of principle that lawyers need to look at, so we are sure that the caseworker makes the right decision. And a third reason may, of course, be that the application has been taken for inspection. Of course, it can be extremely frustrating that you are not told why your case is not getting anywhere. However, I would like to make it clear that a great deal of work is being done to deal with matters quickly and to get help to businesses and the self-employed. Basically, therefore, I also think that the figures show that in most areas things are going very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161313	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161314	Thank you. That was about the answer I had expected. Now it is also my job to listen to what is actually happening out there. I am sure the Minister also thinks this is the minister's job. What I hear is that there is still a group of companies that are not being paid out. And I also have an example of that, which is why I can be a little sure about it on applications from the beginning of April. And after all, more than eight days have gone by. And there may be many reasons for that, so you should not take an application out and generalize based on it. But I'm not the only one who says that anyway. That is, for example, the case. SMEs Denmark, too, who have been out saying that there are problems in this field. And it must also be said, if we look at it in the light of the Corona crisis, which is a deep crisis in many ways, which really affects many groups of employees who may not have just thought that they would be affected, then it is an indication that we now have 250,000 of the unemployed, something like that, and we did not expect that at all 1⁄2 years ago. That is why I must ask the Minister: what does the Minister think it means for employment that the money is so long in the process for those who are then waiting for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161440	There is no doubt that it means a great deal that these aid schemes are going to work quickly. In fact, that is also why I am pleased that the figures are so high, so that we have paid 98 per cent in the large compensation scheme. of those who have sought and been covered by the schemes and that is 96 per cent. In the case of selfemployed persons. It matters that the money comes quickly. If, however, you can see that there is an extended processing time, it is often the case, as I say, that there is a good reason for this. There's no one on the Business Authority sitting on his hands making the days wear nothing, I promise. But it may be that an application has been taken for inspection, it may be that additional information needs to be included. Often there is a good explanation. But that does not mean, of course, that it is not a hard wait. I think we can all understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161530	Thank you. Before we go over to Mr. Knox's. Kim Valentin again, I would just like to say to the Minister that the Minister will have to wait until the lamp is lit, otherwise the whole thing will not be included in the minutes; then there may be a few words that go away, and it may well be that the start is very important. So wait till the minister can see that there's a light in the microphone. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161549	My experience is that when you are in peak periods, and we are now, you have to be careful not to point fingers at people who are really working hard and I know that people are working hard to get this sorted out, because then you also have to look at how effective we are at casework, how good we are in our processes and such things. These are the things you can use the time for, too, to find out if we can improve until a similar situation might arise next time. Is the Minister looking at such optimizations at the moment so that we can get better? If it is the case that we will have to pay again at a later stage, will we be spared such lengthy processing times?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161640-2	There's light in the lamp. There is no doubt that we have all learned a great deal from this crisis and also from the aid packages we have built. I don't think we've built such big relief packages in the entire history of Denmark as we've done in this corona crisis. I think that here too, where we have been standing in the Chamber, we have used the expression that we have had to pave while we were driving, and we have even had to drive fast. In that process, we have learned many things, and we have also continually adjusted our aid schemes so that the structure that is there is also effective. That is why we could intervene with immediate payment, and that is why we have so good figures today on the wage compensation schemes and the self-employed, because we have learned along the way. And, of course, we will take that learning with us if we are to find ourselves in a situation where it is going to happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161733	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161734	Yeah, let me give you a little tip. I myself have been self-employed for 27 years, and I would say that if I treated my customers as they have been treated by many public authorities during this crisis, I probably would not have had a company. That has not been said with a critical attitude to everything, because I know that people are working hard, so that is not it, but I think it is a good thing that we could communicate better. One could, for example: Make a track where you could say that my case is at a certain level, and therefore you don't have to ask until it goes further. So you always know, as with a package, that it is there in the system and that that is what needs to be done, because if you know where your case is, we would all very much avoid moving. Can the Minister see that too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161823	Yes, both - and I would say, because there may be many reasons why your application is delayed along the way, but there is in fact something that is common to all these reasons, namely that it is not obvious or natural to have to tell the applicant what the specific cause is, because it also risks creating learning. If someone wants to abuse the scheme, they will offer free learning on how to abuse the schemes. That's why this is so damn difficult. I would just like to finish by reassureing the questioner that the government and the Ministry of Industry only want the money to be paid out as quickly as possible. We have learned from this along the way, and fortunately we have also got the figures very high, so that we have a quick payout on the cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161917	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin. That concludes the question. But we will continue with the Minister of Business and questions from someone else asking, and that is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161928	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161931	Thank you. Doesn't the Minister think that I ask so rhetorically strong here that the Danish designers are better protected by establishing a dispute board according to Swedish or Finnish model, and that such a dispute board should be established in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624161946	Thank you very much for the question, which is our first round in this Chamber. We're gonna get through this. This is actually a very, very interesting and good question, and I can only assure you that in the government we are concerned to ensure that companies have the best framework conditions for easy and simple business also in Denmark. It is an agenda that embraces widely, and it goes, of course, across both industries and industries. One of Denmark's strengths is that I do not need to lecture the rapporteur on our creative profession. In Denmark, we have to live on our knowledge and innovation, and here the creative industries and innovative industries have a key role to play. It is therefore important for future exports, growth and jobs that companies should be able to protect their ideas and products from imitations as well. This also applies, of course, to the design sector, where it is absolutely essential, not least for small businesses, that they can protect their innovative design and have the opportunity to enforce their rights. For my own ministerial area I can, for example. mention what is called Hotline about counterfeit goods at the Patent and Trademarks Board. Here, companies can obtain guidance on combating copycats. In addition, the Danish Patent and Trademarks Agency has been a facilitator that Danish companies have been given the opportunity to take out insurance from private suppliers, so companies can afford to enforce their rights against copyists. I am fully aware of the Swedish experience, just as I have noted that the Danish Industry in the press has indicated that it would like to see a dispute board set up in Denmark on the basis of a Swedish model, but I am also aware that a number of organisations and among others. The Committee for the Protection of Scientific Work has also worked for a few years to establish a private dispute board in Denmark. Recent developments will, of course, be part of our ongoing reflections on optimising the rules on the protection of rights in the field of design. Private dispute boards are something we have a good tradition of in Denmark, and I believe that these boards can contribute to a qualified and flexible solution to disputes between traders so that traders can spend their resources more on their core business. I will therefore await the outcome in relation to the Danish private dispute board before deciding whether further action may be needed in the public domain.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162206	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162207	Thank you. Well, it's no secret that I love design, and I think that we in Denmark are hugely creative and innovative, and whether we make clothes or we make houses or games or furniture, life science products or sustainable solutions for the whole world, we do so in the cool way with originality and distinctiveness and with the building of brands and we can increase prices, we have pride, and we also have jobs, and we all know the most iconic of them. Copy products are therefore a huge threat to Danish companies. International crime is often organized, lucrative and at low risk. The answer is, of course, to strengthen the enforcement of authority and international cooperation, as well as to block access to the webshops and websites that sell only copy products. Of course. However, in relation to designers and creative industries and the companies working with it at home, the challenge is that often it is not worth taking the infringer into court simply because it drains businesses of time and liquidity, and even when they win, they often end up suffering some kind of financial loss when it all is done up. Here, too, I am thinking very much of entrepreneurs, for who, if you have finally started your business, will be able to fight such a battle. I don't think it's okay. We have to get up to speed, and we are when it comes to international copyists, but it looks like we're hanging a little bit in the brake when it's domestic copying, and perhaps especially when it comes to fashion and textiles, which may as well be a blind angle to Danish legislation even though Danish designs and brands are copied by domestic and foreign companies. I have also noticed that in the past the European Court of Justice has actually settled disputes where the outcome has taken account of design companies. The European Court of Justice has even stated that they want decisions in such cases to have a deterrent effect against the perpetrators, so that similar cases are simply minimised. We may also have such a wish in Danish law, but the question is whether it is actually being enforced entirely. There are different people who have opinions about that. I do not know exactly that either, but I note that the Minister is in any case in favour of looking at this particular area. So my question is: does the Minister have a timetable for when something is going to happen, so simply when the process is going to start?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162415	I want to start with, and I am close to saying that I share the vision of what creativity, innovation does of good things for Danish business. We are not so big that we can just compete at the fastest and cheapest, but we need to use what we can put in the products, from the curly brains, if we can use that expression as a positive expression about the creative people we have in our business. So I am very concerned about this agenda and would like to pursue it, also with the rapporteur. I also know that the rapporteur does not raise matters in this Chamber unless it is really important. Therefore: One thing is to pursue what this private dispute board is going to be for a size, and whether it comes, another thing is to give my statement that together we can look down on whether enforcement is sufficient. I would like to be open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162506	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162506-2	Thank you. I'm really glad. I don't know if a dispute board is right either. So I think it's really nice that we get an investigation. However, it is certainly important that we have easier access to decisions and that it should not cost the state or the offending party, or whoever it may be, a lot of money here, so that we do not have both expensive and lengthy legal proceedings and a lot of press, which is also helping to push the actors in the whole. So let me conclude by saying: Super-good, let us address it after the summer break as one of the absolute first things!
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162540	However, I am going to go back to the Ministry of Business and put a pot of coffee over to a meeting with the rapporteur, where we can have a look at this relationship that several people have brought forward, about whether enforcement is good enough as it is today. Then I agree that it should not stand and fall by whether it will be called a dispute board, but if there are other ways to take good care of the ideas and creative brains we have in our business community, then it is also a guarantee of jobs for the future in Denmark. So I do not think we will be able to disagree on this issue here, but rather maintain our agreement that it is important and then look at a good talk about it after the summer break. Mona Juul Deal! )
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162615	Does Mrs Mona Juul want the last question? No, okay. That concludes the question, so thank you to Mrs Juul, and thank you to the Minister for Industry. Then we move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162634	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162637	Does the Minister consider it fair that, after 30 years of marriage, a Danish citizen should have his wife expelled to a country she has not been in for decades?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162651	Thank you for the question. I feel pretty sure that the questioner refers to a specific case recently described in Herning Folkeblad and in which we, both the questioner and myself, have expressed our opinion. As the questioner also knows, I am of course not going into specific individual cases as a minister. It is for the first time the Foreigners' Board and then the Foreigners' Board. But I would like to say in general terms that I actually understand that it must be frustrating to be denied a residence permit, to be forced to leave Denmark, but I believe basically that we have some sensible rules for family reunification in Denmark, and I do not think it is unreasonable to demand that one should be able to support oneself if one wants to have one's spouse in Denmark. After all, this is a demand that has been made for many years and that has survived both red and blue governments, and it is also a requirement that is the same for everyone and that can only be waived when there are some very special reasons. I think that is quite fair to use the expression of the author of the question, and just as fair is the fact that a refusal is not valid forever and ever. There is, of course, both the possibility of appealing to the Foreigners' Board, and there is also the possibility of applying again when you meet the requirements, including the requirement that you should not have received support from the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162802	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624162803	After all, this is a crazy case with a Danish citizen who has worked for Danish companies around the world for decades after decades. I don't think there's a country where this man hasn't worked and helped make a lot of money into Denmark. When he then becomes unemployed, he returns to Denmark and receives cash benefits for six months, when he takes a truck driving licence by appointment with the job center, and then he gets to work immediately again and has been in a job since. It's a little amazing when he wants to move back with his New Zealand wife to Denmark, that you can't look at all the years he's been in work and work for Danish interests and earned money. Nor does it look at the fact that he is now One does not see that the time he had on cash benefits has been spent on what I think the Minister and I agree with is good, namely to move forward in his career instead of just sitting permanently on cash benefits. In my opinion, it is without common sense that one cannot look at the overall life cycle and how much this man has been in employment, instead of just looking at the fact that there has been six months of time when cash benefits have been received. I fully agree with this headline that you should be able to support yourself, and that is why we in the Radical Left also support the part of the law that says that when the spouse is we think it is reasonable that you should be able to support the spouse once the spouse has arrived, but this couple will also be able to do so because the husband is at work, and he has, moreover, been practically all his life. The man is 60 years old, but then there is just six months when he retrained himself to a truck driver in order to get a job again in Denmark. Could it not be common sense to look at it a little wider than a married couple having to divorce after 30 years because of six months of cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163007	In any case, it is common sense that the rules are not so rigid that they can only be understood in one way. For this reason, the Aliens Act usually includes a small valve here and there in this case with the wording very special reasons where it is possible not only to look at the general rule, but also to see whether there is any particular reason why this particular case should be decided differently. As I also mentioned in the speech, it will in the first place be the Foreign Affairs Council which will have to make that decision, and if you do not agree with that decision, you have the opportunity to appeal to it. It is clear that I cannot in any way comment on these specific matters, because then I am also interfering in how they are to be decided, and that would not be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163048	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163049	I can tell the Minister that it has been both in the Foreign Affairs Council and the Foreign Affairs Board, so there are no more options. What's the problem here is the law. If you couldn't have just received 1 DKK, you couldn't have received 1 DKK. in cash benefits within 3 years, e.g. Look at how much you've been in employment all your life? Could you look at whether you've been on cash benefits for decades? Could you see if you're in a job now? Could you take in a little more criteria and make a change of law so that you do not find yourself in such a situation where you get a very large penalty... I'd call it... because of six months of cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163126	If it has both been in the Foreigners' Board and in the Foreigners' Board, it is settled, you can say, and then we have a more general discussion about the law's arrangement, and you can of course look at everything. I would just like to say, with my poor experience in the field of foreigners, that we do not have to imagine that we can make rules that do not mean that there will be some tardiness in individual cases, which also show that, even if we try to take everything into account, there will be examples of people getting into trouble, and that is why my appeal is also that the principle that you support yourself if you want your foreign spouse to do so is a good one, I think, both forward-looking and also in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163204	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163205	The person here can support himself, but has just had half a year of cash assistance, which has been used to take an education so that he could get a job again. So it's not true that this couple can't support themselves. One could, of course, do as the Radical Left wishes, namely give Danish citizens the right to live in their country of origin with a spouse and then make the demands afterwards. Because I fully agree that we cannot have such a laissez-faire policy as in the 1980s and 1990s, where no demands were made. Could the government not see that some of these demands were made when the spouse was here, in relation to learning Danish, not commit crime, work and support themselves, instead of putting them at the forefront and hitting people because of 6 months of cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163250	I would like to insist that some demands are also made before. It can be about Danish knowledge; it can be about crime; it can be about housing; it can also be about employment and self-reliance. Because if foreign spouses come to Denmark and that is what they are very welcome to do, I think we have an interest in ensuring that they land in families that are reasonably well functioning and are not part of a parallel society. Of course, we can always discuss where exactly the cut should be. I myself believe that one of the most important things is that you do not land in a family that is on public support, but in a family that has proved able to support itself. Otherwise, we risk re-establishing some of the problems that have been in the past in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163332	That brings us to the end of the first question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mr. Andreas Steenberg. We have one more question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration asked by Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163347	What consideration is being given by the Minister to the announcement of the number of quota refugees, and is it expected that Denmark will again receive 500 quota refugees annually by 2020, as provided for in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163406	Thank you for the question. The agreement on the Financial Act for 2020 really provides for a reserve to cover the costs of receiving up to 500 quota refugees. The number of quota refugees could therefore vary and be less than 500, but as a clear starting point it could not exceed 500. In accordance with the legislation from 2017, the decision on how many quota refugees Denmark should receive is made on the basis of an overall balance of social and economic capacity in society. In this context, attention should be paid to how many foreigners have come to Denmark in recent years and how the foreigners already in Denmark are integrated. We, the government, continue to want to take international responsibility and receive quota refugees by 2020. I have just announced this to the UNHCR today. The reception of quota refugees is also an important part of the Government's ambition to promote a fairer and humane asylum system, which focuses more on the controlled reception of refugees through international cooperation. However, it is central to the government that there is the right balance between the number of refugees received by Denmark as a whole and the ability of the municipalities to integrate them. In recent years, Denmark has experienced a significant drop in the number of asylum seekers. At the same time, we are also experiencing several positive trends in the area of integration, but we must also recognise that we have a certain backlog in the area of integration, which has been built up over a number of years. As the government also indicated in the paper of understanding from last year, the government wants the reception of quota refugees with a special focus on women and children to be resumed this year. We still want that, of course, as long as the conditions for doing so are met. There has not yet been a final decision, but the government is working to make a statement before too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163550	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163551	Before too long, the law states that it is the middle of the year and the money is set aside. It has now been announced that quota refugees can fly around again, even though there has been corona. There are no more excuses left. We're in the middle of the year. I do not think that we can go any further in the middle of the year than we are right now, yet the government is stuck in the brake. I find that difficult to understand for two reasons. Firstly, we believe that a country such as Denmark, with the wealth we have, should be involved in taking at least some refugees and taking responsibility for the fact that there are a lot of people who cannot be in the country from which they come, because of dictatorship, war, strife, etc. At any rate, we do not think that it is too much for us to join and take 500 quota refugees, as we have done since 1989. It was one of the things that was stopped under the previous government, and I can at least say to the Minister, as he is aware, that there is a very strong expectation on the part of the Radical Left that we will come back and take 500 quota refugees under this new government. There is another reason why I am puzzled, because the Minister has said a lot of clever things at least last year in the summer holiday to Denmark's Radio, where the Minister said, and now I quote: the quota refugee system is the way we can get it under control. That is why we also want to show that Denmark supports that system. It is the asylum system of the future. It is not the present where you have to sit in a boat across the Mediterranean. I fully agree with the Minister on that. It is much better to distribute refugees in the world through the quota system, instead of being spontaneous asylum it is much better. Then why are we not going to get started, I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163746	Well, every word I said last year is still the government's position. When we are going to resettle quota refugees, I also think it is wise not only to blindfold a certain number of quota refugees and move them to Denmark. Then I actually think that the money could be spent more humanely closer to the conflicts. You get much longer, you can help many more people by not relocating them in Denmark. However, the reason why quota refugees are still a good idea is that some people may need protection, even if they are actually in a refugee camp. It can, for example, be done. be a minority of sexual or religious people who are persecuted. It may also be single women or children who are at risk of abuse. That's some of what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163827	Yes, please. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163828	I am glad of all the things the Minister says, which I must then understand are the positions of the government it is just not the government's actions The money is off, we are in the middle of the year, so I find it hard to understand why you do not get started, especially when you look at the asylum numbers. In Anders Fogh Rasmussen's prime minister's time, an average of 4,351 refugees came to Denmark. This year it has so far been 539. When are we going to take the 500 quota refugees? Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163903	Well one of the reasons why we didn't and a large part of them arrived while Anders Fogh Rasmussen was prime minister. We are then some now, not only in the Social Democratic Party, but widely in the Danish Parliament, who are trying to settle the integration debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163927	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163928	Now the Minister is beginning to sound as if the Minister is not quite going to take quota refugees anyway, and then it is beginning to become a little uncertain, that is, about the things we have agreed, among other things. In the understanding paper, it's gonna be something. If not 539 refugees so far this year, then a much lower figure than last year, much lower than the average previous year, is a low enough figure to allow us to join this system, then what is needed, I will ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624163956	There is no reason to be nervous about whether we are living up to the understanding paper and it is very clear what the government's position is about quota refugees. What I'm just saying is that we can't only look at the influx of the last year, because the integration challenges we have in Denmark go back to Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Nyrup Rasmussen and Poul Schlüter and before them. That is because for many years we had many more than we were able to integrate. That's what I'm trying to call integration debts. We cannot just look at how many people have come here in the last year and how much more of them have got into employment. We need to look at it a little more broadly. And it is still our challenge that there are too many criminal offences; there are too many women who are not in work; there is too much ghettoisation in relation to where people live.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164041	Thank you. And then we say thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. The next question is also put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That's what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164054	Thank you, President. Does the Minister agree with his parliamentary support party that Danes should show justice, lawlessness, liberalism and generosity to the Muslim prayer call, and that Muslim prayer call can be compared to the church bells of the people's church?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164111	I shall start by thanking you for the question. In fact, I think it is a good idea to show a fair spirit of law, liberalism and generosity, but in this case I do not really think that appeal should be made to Danes who look at minarets, but more to people who are inside the mosques and look out in Danish society. I have, of course, also noted the important words of the Parliamentary Walking Hall, and I really agree with Mrs Marianne Jelved that these are important words, in understanding who we are as a society and of the values we have in this society. I would also like to say that we in the government have no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion. It is a fundamental value in Danish society, and it is also part of our constitution, and we must, of course, safeguard that. But to signal attachment, for example. With a cross around your neck, a calot or a scarf is not the same as pulling that scarf down over your head. And I actually think you do that if you call to prayer from a minaret There should therefore be no doubt that what we saw in the Gellerup Park should not, in my view, be part of everyday life in Denmark. Prayer calls are presumptuous for the citizens who live nearby and who have to listen to it. And the question of a possible ban on prayer calls also raises a large number of legal issues which we will now clarify in order to know the response options if the problem develops. I have to admit, I actually fear it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164232	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164233	I have to say that I regard it as deeply paradoxical that one can say that one has to show justice, lawlessness, liberalism and generosity in relation to Islam. My way of looking at things and my experience, if you're going to use that expression, shows that where Islam comes forward, it's all these fine concepts that are being pushed back. In other words, whether it is in the Muslim world, where it can be quite difficult to spot freeness of speech and all these things that Mrs Marianne Jelved has mentioned, or whether it is in our own part of the world, it is in the areas of ghettos, etc. where Islam is gaining ground, not exactly law, generosity and justice for that matter. There are several areas where the police cannot even be allowed to assert their authority. It must therefore be a completely different reality in which the radical support party to the government finds itself. And there I may be afraid that the government is somehow being talked about and is being persuaded that you also have to listen to these people who make you a government. When, for example, we... A few weeks ago, I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that if it were just a single coronasvale, there would be no need to resort to bans. Now we can read in Berlingske that there are at least several swallows on the roof, if we are going to use that picture, and when are we really going to be where we resort to bans, and where we are actually going to put our foot down and say that we do not want it here in Denmark? You can believe in what god you want, but you cannot insist that Danish society be influenced by that faith.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164417	It is true that there was a ghetto blaster or at least a speaker on a football field in Gellerup in western Aarhus. What I can just say is that as recently as today I saw a religious researcher, I think it was sitting on TV 2 News telling me that there have actually been examples here in Copenhagen. I can read in the newspapers that it has been authorized in a South Swedish town. I see that this is a debate in other European countries. I myself have been approached by Islamic religions, and I know that several municipalities have also been in dialogue with some Islamic religions about whether to apply and how to apply for permission for prayer calls. It is clear that the more such discussions come, the more we politicians will have to take a step forward and regulate. In fact, I find it sad that we are regulating our society more and more, but we obviously have to, because these cultural conflicts are forcing us to explain where the closet should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164511	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164512	Surely it would be a cry to nothing if we did not resort to regulation when Islam intrudes. Well, there is not a single Islamic country that I would find particularly desirable to move to. And there are not many who flee so when Islam spreads across Denmark, it is a democratic duty to regulate and stop it. And that is why we can only be concerned when a support party to the government has the completely diametrically opposed view that we should only welcome diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164551	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164552	Islam is a fifteen hundred-year-old religion and has not always been so, but there is no doubt that there has been a huge theological, economic, philosophical setback for Islam in our lifetime, for example. with the Iranian Revolution in 1979 and several other examples. And it has also meant that many people have emigrated or fled those countries. Some have arrived in Europe and here in Denmark and live completely unproblematicly as Danish Muslims, and they are wanted to give a huge hug. But they're the ones who, among other things, aren't they? comes in a pinch, and the rest of Danish society when prayer calls from minarets begin. Because I regard this as a provocation without equal, and it helps us, as politicians, to have to take a step forward and regulate. And again, Danish Muslims must see on television that some of their fellow believers are not able to fit into the society in which they live, and that is a pity, because my impression is that most Danish Muslims are completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164648	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164650	That's where I think we look very similar. But I cannot help worrying about the influence that the Socialists and the Radicals have on the Minister. Now I was just on the News before I came into the hall here, where I with Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten had to listen to the idea that one could equate such things, for example. church bells with Islamic prayer calls. And if, in the last question hour before the summer break, the Minister could assure me of a little solidity in the view, it would be nice if he would at least disagree with the fact that church bells and Islamic prayer calls are something to compare. I guess one's natural, the other's unwanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164725	I agree that it makes no sense to compare it in Denmark because we have our own cultural history in Denmark. One of the reasons why I do not just think that such a little panic should be taken immediately into account is that, if there is to be legislation, I believe that this must be ensured in a way that does not also affect church bells. I live next to a church from the 1100-1200s, and I have church bells in the backyard all the time, and I think that is a perfectly natural part of living in Denmark. I don't live far from a mosque either, and if it was called to prayer there, I might just put the coffee cup a little more surprised from me, because it would be completely unnatural. And that is how I think most people in our society feel, and I think it is quite natural and unproblematic that we feel that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164813	Thank you. That was the end of the question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. We shall move on to the next question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who has also been asked by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164826	Thank you, President. What does the Minister expect the Marrakesh Declaration to mean as an interpretation of Danish foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624164835	I can actually answer that very briefly: the UN Declaration on Migration will have no impact on Denmark's policy on foreigners, unless the government or the majority in this House wishes to be inspired. The foreign policy of Denmark decides jointly with the Folketing, and we will continue to do so, and this declaration does not change that. But now I have 1 minute and 40 seconds more, so let me clarify this a little bit. Firstly, the declaration is not legally binding, nor does it impose any additional obligations on countries. This is quite clear from the introductory recitals of the Declaration, which clearly recognise the sovereign right of States to establish their own legislation on foreigners. Secondly, it is important to look at the purpose of the declaration and, in my view, the objective is very clear: irregular migration must be countered and prevented while legal migration must be carried out in a safe, orderly and regular manner. I actually think everyone agrees with that, that is to say, we must prevent irregular migration as far as possible, while legal migration must be carried out in a proper manner. That is why I firmly believe that the UN Declaration on Migration will have no impact on Denmark's foreign policy. In relation to whether the migration declaration can be an interpretation in specific legal cases, I would like to mention that it is clear from the legal assessment sent by the previous government to the Folketing in December 2018 that the possible importance of the declaration as interpretation will be extremely limited. This is because the area of foreigners is very closely regulated by legislation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165002	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165003	Thank you, President. That is precisely the wording that the Minister mentions at the end of his reply, which I also came across after our excellent debate last week. Because there is a big difference between whether something has no legal value or whether something has a limited effect, even if it is extremely limited. To go from nothing to anything that is extremely limited is to break through a wall where it is either or not. When we're over in something that's limited, maybe it's small, but it's there. When nothing is said, it is not there, and we do not want the Marrakesh Declaration or anything else, in so far as the whole UN process must have an impact on Danish foreign policy, and, unfortunately, more and more bear in that direction. The Minister mentions that the declaration has no legal validity. Yes, you can read that in some places, but if you ask the European Commission, which has asked its legal service to assess it, they will come to the opposite conclusion, and that is why the concern arises, that is to say, that you cannot find out what is really the truth here. Is this an effect? We can see plenty of different UN declarations and conventions, which play a role as interpretations, for example. The decisions of the Refugee Board, and there is good reason to fear that the Refugee Board will not deal so much with what the Minister has said and thought in relation to the legal validity, but perhaps put more emphasis on what is said in relation to the limited effect, in relation to what the European Commission's lawyers might say and so on. So if the Minister and I share the wish that this statement should have absolutely no significance for Danish law, how can we bring the Minister back to the original starting point, that is, away from the fact that there is only limited effect, to the fact that there is absolutely no effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165204	I will probably have to start by saying that the Commission does not say that the declaration is legally binding or that it creates new obligations. It is true that there was a leaked note which the Commission itself distanced itself from at the very highest level, and I followed the debate well then and also noted that both the Danish authorities and the European Commission have agreed that the declaration is not legally binding, it does not create new obligations and that its meaning as possible interpretation will be extremely limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165242	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165243	But the problem is if others think otherwise. Yes, it is true that the Commission struck seven crosses for itself, since the legal service had said something that was disliked. Normally, the legal service is that I think that both the Minister and I know almost the highest wisdom. That is, for example, the case. the legal service responsible for answering any questions put by Members of the European Parliament to the Commission. So it is very strange right here, and frankly I fear that the symbiosis of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice in particular will interpret it here in the same way as the lawyers in the legal service, and that it will of course infect Danish law. So I ask: how do we ensure that there are waterproof bulkheads, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165322	With the history of international conventions, I understand that we can stand by 2020 and pay particular attention to this. No one would have imagined that the European Convention on Human Rights or the Convention on Refugees would have such far-reaching and detailed effects on, for example. Danish legislation with which we stand today. So I fully understand that there is attention and that an alarm bell is ringing, and that is why both the Danish Government and other governments were very clear and very explicit when the then government went to Morocco and said under what conditions we endorsed this declaration. It was also something that we supported on the part of the Social Democrats before the elections, because it is important that, in any future discussion, it is quite clear what it is that has been the basis for our joining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165417	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165418	However, we have to note that very often we politicians are put to the wall by people who are elevated in the sense that they do not need a democratic mandate: judges, officials, NGOs, various bodies, advisory bodies, etc. And suddenly we are in a situation here in the Folketing where we have found that reality looked different than we thought and we wanted. I think the Minister will recognize that only within the year he has been Minister for Integration is quite often. So what are we doing to make sure that, in relation to this statement, which I would call a manifesto of immigration, if you read it, it's one great tribute to migration doesn't happen, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165457	It takes a majority of the Danish Parliament to agree on this and I would like to say from this that this declaration does not have legal validity and does not have legal validity. When, as a government, we make legislative proposals and say that we do not want to break the basic law it gives itself, of course, but also international conventions, it is because we have openly endorsed some conventions that we well knew had legal validity. Here we have openly endorsed a declaration which is not legally valid, and we have made that clear. The questioner will therefore never hear me from the platform say that we have to do A, B and C because it is in the Marrakesh Declaration. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165536	Thank you. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt. The next question has also been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165546	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165550	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for citizens who are recognised that the authorities have made an error in applying for a residence permit or citizenship in Denmark to have the matter resumed only with the application of new and more restrictive rules than with the original application?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165610	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the opportunity to get me into this a little complicated law myself. I understand the question that questions are asked about the handling of cases which are resumed in accordance with administrative principles, i.e. where non-essential procedural errors have occurred in the course of the proceedings or where the decision has been taken on an incorrect factual or legal basis. As far as applications for residence permits are concerned, the starting point must be to apply the rules in force during the initial examination of the case. I cannot deny, however, that there can be some law in this starting point, but it depends a little on what kind of residence permit it is and the circumstances. So if the questioner wishes to go much further, I would ask that the question be put in writing, with reference to what specific basis of residence we are talking about. As far as the application for citizenship is concerned, they are dealt with following a circular letter, and it follows from Section 33 of the circular letter that the rules apply to the examination of all applications for naturalisation and the request for revision once received after 5 February 2017. The matter of review proceedings was discussed in the previous Committee on the Law of the Birth in 2018, when the Committee came to the conclusion that all applications and reopening proceedings, regardless of whether the reopening took place on the basis of procedural errors or the like, would be made after the 2018 Circular if they had been received after 5 February 2017. The Ministry had administered after this statement by the Committee, so that cases that resume after 5 February 2017 due to e.g. Case failure, being dealt with according to the new circular. This is also the case where the original application was dealt with in accordance with the rules of a previous circular. If a majority in the Committee on the Rights of the Child wants a different practice, they can just announce it, then I will make sure that the ministry abides by it immediately. In fact, I found the previous letter from the Committee of Insights 5 February 2019 in which it is described here, and it has been signed by the committee's then chairman Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165811	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624165812	Thank you, and thank you for your information, and thank you for your meeting with the Minister just over three hours ago; I had been looking forward to that for a long time. At the meeting we took a little advance on the case of error in applying for a residence permit or citizenship that I am travelling here. We also talked about the long and very often inappropriate procedures which take several years, for example. the inappropriate fact that you rarely get to the phone because there are long waiting times, and where it often takes several years, from a case being handed in until it arrives. One example is, for example: Annette Herzog's case, which has been raised in this Chamber a few times. It has been sent through the appeal system and the birthright committee, and it has now taken 31⁄2 years, and that is just because she as an award-winning bookwriter lacks a Danish 3. She only raises the matter on the Committee on the Rights of the Child because some of us have noticed it, but she is only one among very many, because every year a great many citizens are looking for both citizenship and residence permits in Denmark, and it is therefore clear that mistakes must of course be made. Another mistake struck Zohreh Bagheri, who applied for a residence permit, but for them there is no committee as such. Zohreh is a trained engineer, she is married to a Danish citizen, she speaks fluently Danish, she has two children who attend kindergarten and school respectively, and then she reads to social worker. Zohreh has sought Danish citizenship according to the rules a few years ago. That is precisely the situation that is being pointed out here. However, Zohreh was not granted a permanent residence permit when the Foreigners' Board overlooked that she lived up to the employment requirement by also having work in her husband's business. When she was able to prove that the Foreigners' Authority had made a mistake, she was told that she had to apply for citizenship under new and changed conditions. Does the Minister not think that it would be reasonable for the Foreigners' Agency, when a mistake has been made, to allow the matter to be dealt with under the conditions in force when the applicant applied for a residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170016	Yes, I mean that when it comes to residence permits, because general principles of administrative law apply too. When it comes to citizenship, it is not a decision based on administrative principles, so what is actually going on is legislative preparation, and therefore it is not covered by the administrative law either. This does not mean that general principles of administrative law are not followed by the birthright office, but they are not formally governed by the administrative law. That is also why these are interesting discussions, and that is also why I tried to refer to the letter which the birthright office wrote to the Ministry back in February last year, because here we are describing which cases are to be dealt with according to which circulars and, as far as I can understand, they have also followed the request that came from the then Committee of Insights, and if, as I have said, the Committee of Insights wants another practice, it is just writing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170115	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170116	Thank you. After all, it is due to a long period of time in the case of citizenship and to a very different situation when, like Zohreh Bakeri, you have applied for a residence permit in this particular situation. She is undoubtedly like people seeking a residence permit in a more insecure situation, for they may lose their opportunity to be in Denmark with their loved ones. Does the Minister not think that it creates insecurity for citizens if the conditions under which they are seeking are constantly changed? Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170150	In fact, I believe that it would be sensible for the legislation on foreigners, including the rules on citizenship, to be amended somewhat more rarely. I would guess that the Aliens Act is one of the most amended laws we have in Denmark at all. It is constantly changing the rules for family reunification, permanent residence, when to withdraw your residence permit and when to obtain citizenship. And I fully understand that both the people who work with it professionally on a daily basis can be lawyers, counsellors, they may be the people of the authorities, but of course also the foreigners and the Danes who have to take advantage of the alien law get gray hair in their heads because it constantly and constantly changes. That is also why I actually consider it to be one of my own tasks just to try to avoid us changing the rules every eternal year, just trying to let the rules work before we start changing them again. But there is such a desire from both sides of the Assembly that we must constantly tighten and adjust, either in one direction or another. I'm just trying to appeal to you that we breathe once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170251	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170253	In return, I can inform the Radical Left that it is not in favour of this tightening up, it is quite certain. What is the Minister going to do to help the people who are in this situation, like Zohreh Bakeri, who has applied for a residence permit in Denmark and who is in a situation where she has simply been squeezed into a system that has changed from strict rules to even stricter rules? How do you want to help? What is the Minister going to do to help such a person or person of that nature, in that he does not take personal matters up here? But what are you going to do for that group?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170330-2	I think it is important that we have a high level of service with the immigration authorities and that people can get a clear answer if they ask. One thing is that we have strict rules, but they must also be understandable rules that people are able to navigate. I do not think it is my responsibility to ensure that people live up to employment requirements and demand that you have not committed crime, and Danish demands must be made by people, as well as by people themselves. But, of course, it has to be clear what it is that you have to live up to, and it has to be clear how to document it. I think that is obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170359	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and we thank Mr. Nils Sjøberg. Then we go to the last question today, and that is what Mr. Kim Valentin, Left, to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170413	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170415	What is the Minister's position on the proposal to mark historical monuments and monuments with information on how people of the past behaved according to today's standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170439	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170440	Thank you very much and thank you for the question. This suggests that the questioner and I share the understanding of the importance of knowing our history, both the good and the not so good, both the bright and the dark times. Because when we know it makes us richer as people, it helps us understand why we are here, and it helps us learn how to move on to a better world. In this connection, there has been this discussion about monuments and monuments. What exactly are they telling us? What are we perhaps celebrating by having them among us? And I welcome that discussion. I do not think, as I have explained earlier, that we should start tearing them down, because that also prevents learning. And that is why I see the question put by the questioner here as another indication of how we could add the perspective we hopefully have learned from the dark sides that some of these monuments and statues represent. So I can see the thought that you could go through these statues and these memorials and these buildings... I would like to have a dialogue on that after the summer break with the rapporteurs if there is a political desire to do so. But as I said, it has to be in a way that makes sense. And I know that in other countries, for example. has also worked to look at some parts of history that may be missing monuments or statues in order to make up for this. So I think there are different ways to balance your storytelling. The most important thing, on which I hope we can agree, is that we have the balance, and this is one of the options. I look forward to the debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170621	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170622	Thank you. And that is quite true because I think that history should also be looked at on the terms of history. It is, of course, a very high-strong debate, and it is also very easy to adopt such rather populist views on the whole debate and agree with the cheap arguments. I do not see that the Minister does. I also find that the Minister in his answer here opens the door to the fact that we are not looking at the story with the glasses of today alone. But of course we have evolved throughout history, and we must take that with us. That is why we can sometimes be critical of how we have behaved in the past. So that is how I see the Minister's reply. One can say that the fact that we in Denmark have set up a great many historical monuments also means that we have learned to reflect, and that sometimes we can see that the world was another then. And that's one way to avoid making mistakes again. The Minister has then dealt with the proposal to set up a commission to find out whether we can better communicate history in connection with historical monuments. And there the Minister said that this was the opportunity to tell the whole story. Is it possible to tell the whole story? I would therefore question that. And what does the Minister think can be difficult to tell about in relation to the whole story?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170819	It is true that, on a previous question, I said that a Commission could just be the way to move forward in order to learn more about how to ensure that we get the whole perspective. And it was kind of just an attempt by me to admit that this is super hard. However, I think it is important also to remember that here we have our own history to stand on. Because although we clearly share a part of our history with other countries in the world, each country has its unique history, for example. in relation to colonialism, and how one has gone to it, how one has represented it, how one has worked with it, how one has also communicated it. And there I think it is important that we start from the Danish tradition, from the Danish history and in the way we have worked with it so far. For example: We have also recently erected statues to commemorate the era of slavery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170917	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170918	Thank you. It's so exciting that we have to discuss it further, I hear. But in a chronicle in Berlingske from 18 June this year historian Simon Mølholm Olesen says that colonial times are, and now I quote, more than slaves and excuses. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624170939	I believe that if we are to have a full account of everything that colonial times are, then we need to have more ministers in the debate, because that is precisely something that still has traces into very many parts of our society. On the cultural side I will relate to the statues and rejoice that we have got some of them up to represent that part too, so that when we go around Copenhagen we also know that many of the buildings we see have a history in many people's absolutely terrible conditions. So it is not to return, but nevertheless, to the previous question by the questioner: I would not really claim to have answered exactly how to get the completeness with, but I am open to a dialogue on the various means that may be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171027	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171028	Thank you. My final comment will be that my position is that we must judge history on its own merits. History is something that happened in the past and something that we were born with and have to live with good or bad and we have to learn from it. But we must not underestimate the Danes in this context; they can subtract and add to. So my call to the minister is not to underestimate the Danes in that storytelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171101	I certainly hope I haven't, because I don't do that at all. And that is also what I have at least tried to express by not being among those who say that I think we should start tearing down statues or removing monuments. Because they are set to represent a way that one saw at some point in history, and just that we may also learn that the look at history can change over time, makes it perhaps also easier for us to keep critical of the way we look at history today. So I look forward to continuing good dialogue. Kim Valentin Thank you).
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171136	Then we'll thank the Minister for Culture, and we'll thank him. Kim Valentin. That was the end of Question Time. There are no more questions today, nor on this side of the summer holidays, when it was the last Question Time to the ministers before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20200624171156	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 25 June 2020, at 3 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
