ParlaMint-DK_20201215130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 124 (Proposal for a law amending the law on repatriation (Support for the remainder of aid for repatriation and reintegration in the event of serious crime, etc.) committed after repatriation, etc.) and Bill No. L 125 (Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens (Possible to require a foreigner to leave the country to be examined for a disease covered by the law on measures against infectious and other communicable diseases). Astrid Carøe (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of the rules on gender-based pay statistics). Rasmus Nordqvist (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on respect for human rights and environmental and climate sustainability in ATP's investments). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130052	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130112	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Hans Andersen from the Left wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130121	Thank you. We had a good discussion of this bill last Thursday, where there was discussion of an amendment which we believe could help to make this work-sharing agreement even better. After all, this comes from a tripartite agreement, and we in the Left have great respect for the fact that the social partners come together and, together with the government, find solutions that can help companies and employees through 2021 when it comes to the division of labour here. I have also listened since last Thursday to the fact that there are some very sharp, fine balances that have been found in the tripartite agreement, and with regard to the flexibility that we would have liked to see, which was that the division of labour should also include employees who were employed without an agreement, we are listening to the fact that, if we want it to be part of this bill too, there is a risk that this tripartite agreement will not become a reality. We respect that. We are listening to the fact that there are some balances that have been found with each other, and we are behind the tripartite agreement and want it to become a reality because it can help both companies and employees through 2021 in a way that divides the work. In view of this, we had yesterday's report in the Committee on Employment, and I wanted to explain here what I wanted to vote for an amendment tabled by the New Citizens' Party, which should include, as I see it, employees who are not covered by an agreement, in relation to the flexibility laid down in this tripartite agreement, and I would like to say at this second reading that we will vote in favour of that amendment and that we will, of course, vote in favour of the draft law when it comes to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130357	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130404	I shall be very brief, because I actually think it was a good amendment which the Left tabled at first reading and since the Left did not want to table that amendment itself, we are happy to do so in the new citizens. We think it makes sense. We have great respect for the tripartite agreement that has been reached. In fact, we think it can be quite reasonable, but there is just the small curl that we are responsible for all Danes in this Parliament and not just those who are part of tripartite agreements. That is why we thought it was a good improvement that it should also include them, as it did in the first agreement that was made, and that is why, of course, we are tabling this amendment, which was actually supported by a large number of parties at first reading and which we of course also hope to support here. Now we can see that the Left does not entirely agree anymore, but the Left must then lie and meddle with it. At least we thought it was a good amendment from the Left and that is why we are putting it forward now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130455	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130504	Thank you for that, President. This, with an extension of the rules of division of labour, which we discussed last week, created a little debate about it. After all, we had a big discussion about who should be included in it with the fact that it could be denied that it was 50 per cent. of the labour force repatriated to 80 per cent were repatriated. We fully understand that the parties have agreed that we should have the opportunity to go further into the workforce and then still keep some. Otherwise, you'd have to send everyone home if you had to get compensation. The rules on the 50%. After all, all the companies, all the restaurants continue to run, but then it is that you can go up to 80 per cent. are sent home and retain some of the workforce so that you can still have takeaway and in this respect receive compensation. It's okay, too. The problem then is that exactly that going from 50 to 80 per cent. Don't cover everyone. That is why we had the debate last week. In the blue block we would have liked it to be made applicable to everyone. Then we understand that the parties say that if it is to apply to everyone, it will fall to the ground. We would also like to take account of the wishes of employers, and we have also understood that the companies that are not covered can join an employers' association and benefit from it. That's how we got it last week. In this context, we can discuss what we should do. Because it was a very good proposal we had last week that it should apply to everyone, which has now been taken up by the new citizens. We fully understand this, especially in these times when the restrictions will probably be further extended tomorrow, so that the restrictions that apply in Copenhagen will apply to the whole country. Then it hits the whole country, which is why extra help will be needed. But if it ends up falling to the ground and it is only 50 per cent that is going to apply, then we in the Danish People's Party have decided that we are voting yellow to the amendment tabled by the New Citizens' Party. That was a good way to please everyone, but it could not be done. We understand from the Minister that he could not continue with it. If it fell away, we could have had a general extension of the 50 per cent agreement. It could have driven on, and it still does, but now it's just up to 80% that doesn't go on according to the new rules here. However, the Danish People's Party votes yellow to the amendment, although we are very sympathetic to it. And then we have to call on the Minister to see if, with these extra closures, there are any additional measures that might have been taken to help those who do not come under this scheme. For there are at least some employees who may get into trouble in that situation. We also know that if it is the case that there is no work and they have been sent home, they may be dismissed because there is no division of labour, and it is the allowance they should have instead. It may also mean that there are companies that are going to shut down completely in this regard. It's especially restaurants that can shut down completely. It is then a responsibility that the Minister must take on in this connection if this means that there are companies • restaurants and hotels • that are going to close because they are not equally part of the right employers' association in this respect. Then we will lose some jobs, but I assume the Minister is well aware of that. But we do not want to be the reason why, for example, we do not want to be the reason for this. HORESTA gets a problem in that they want to keep some of the employees. We shall vote in favour of the proposal in the end, but yellow to the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130911	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. That is why the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215130918	I'll start by saying that you have to check that you have the right name in the display. May I also say at the outset that we have a great many votes in this Chamber up to and including next Tuesday. We need to be here quite a lot, and that is why I would like to stress that I have sent an e-mail to all the MFs with a number of recommendations with a line of commands. It is about the fact that when we go to and from the vote in this Chamber we have a good distance and that, when we are in this Chamber, we also stay in our seats and, above all, avoid conversations. Save them until we're done and can take them from a safe distance elsewhere. And when you go to the platform, you go up to the platform over by the water fountain, and when you go down, you do it down the stairs here at the ministerial benches. I hope we will all respect that, because it is quite a long time that we have to be together in here, and I do not have to say that we have seen the infection figures here lately. If we keep this up and look out for each other, we'll get through it, too. I appeal to us to look after each other. Then we can proceed with the vote on the amendments. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (NB), joined by a minority (LA), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 4 (NB and LA), against voting 45 (S, SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 48 (V, DF, RV and KF). That is why the amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB) or on Amendment No 2. 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201215131123	This means that, for technical reasons, we must have a break now, and that also means that a new meeting will start today at 8 a.m. 13.30, where there are a number of votes.
