ParlaMint-DK_20200429130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 182 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on medicinal products. Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 183 (Proposal for a law amending the law on parental responsibility, law on the Family Court, law on the conclusion and dissolution of marriage and various other laws. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 184 (Proposal for a Law on the Senior Pensions Unit) and Bill No. L 185 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods, the law on bus services, the law on labour law and the law on professional arbitration and the law on the posting of employees, etc.) Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 162 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the provision of cheaper lending facilities for residential and commercial activities in outlying areas). Titles on notified cases will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130103	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 30 April 2020. First of all, to justify the question, Mr President, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the question. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, and there is 2 minutes' speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130141	Thank you for that, President, and thank you both to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Health for coming up for this urgent request. It has been a wish from us that, in fact, every week during this very special time we are living in, we will have the opportunity here in Parliament to debate with the government how the Corona crisis is being dealt with. We have not been able to reach an agreement with the government on this, but we hope that what can come out of today's debate, among other things. is a promise from the government that one is willing to run once a week here in Parliament to take this discussion. Because we think it's important that we spread this discussion out, not just to the Folketing, but in fact to the entire Danish population. It is a very serious situation that we are faced with in relation to the coronasmitt. It must be combated, but also socio-economically, in relation to the many unemployed and people who really suffer deprivation, also among the elderly and others, and it is of course crucial that we discuss this openly. I would just like to say, and it has also been said before, that the corona is not such an enemy who chooses to change tactics because we are talking about it. It is not the case that because we talk openly about how the corona is to be combated and how we get through it in the best way possible, that it then chooses to attack us in a new way, and that is why, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party and of a number of other parties, there is, of course, a basis for a much more transparent discussion of the basis on which the government bases its decisions on the basis on which the authorities base their decisions. That is why we want the debate to be brought into the Chamber so that it is revealed not only to us, but also to the Danish people. So these motivating words for the debate, I look forward to it and look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130322	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the reasons for the question. For information only, it will be the case that three ministers answer the question. After each minister's reply, I will only give the rapporteurs one brief comment. So I give the floor first to the Prime Minister to reply to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130346	Thank you to the Danish Parliament for today's question debate. Seven weeks ago, we opposed the spread of infection and shut down large parts of Danish society. Now the infection is under control, we have succeeded with the Danish strategy in the first difficult round, and now Denmark is engaged in a controlled reopening of the economy, of social life. Phase 1 is in progress and phase 2 is expected to start after 10 May. The precise content of phase 2 is defined by the Danish Parliament's parties next week. Here we also present the long-term plan for the order of reopening, so both citizens and companies know the time perspective, for example for restaurants, children's education, sports and shopping centres. We are still in Denmark in a health crisis and we must not put the health of the Danes at risk. Therefore, the reopening must be checked and it must be sound. A long-term strategy is also needed for how we, as a society, deal with a new everyday life with viruses, and I would like to add a few words to that today. Five elements are crucial. Firstly, an offensive test strategy: many more tests, new technology, detection, isolation, the infection must be discovered and kept under control. Secondly, the use of protective equipment: it applies to the staff, but it also applies to the rest of us, so that we can again be with the elderly or the sick in the families. Guards are now regarded as critical infrastructure. Thirdly, hygiene: more cleaning needs to be done, and the washing of hands and spritters has come to stay. Fourthly, distance: While more and more of ordinary social life opens up again, we need to invent new ways of being together. There must be distance between colleagues, between classmates, just as we have got used to it in the queue in the supermarket. Fifthly, we must continue to avoid super-spreading, so that too many people are gathered in one place. The five tracks are the prerequisite for us gradually and controlled to open up our society, to restore our economy and to look together into a brighter future. For the government, jobs are the most important thing. But we will also insist in the reopening of Denmark that more patients should be treated in the health care system, and I know that there are many children and young people who need to go back to school. We must not just reopen, nor just restore; we must also reinvent innovation, strong green visions and, moreover, in close cooperation with all parts of society. The relief packages adopted in here in the Folketing are temporary. Subsequently, we must have a long-term recovery plan in place and, before the summer break, we will implement the first climate action plan. We must gradually and gradually have more and more activity in society, but of course we are only opening up at the pace and in the manner in which it is justified in terms of health. We need to see the results of the first phase of reopening before we can say exactly from the Folketing what opens up in the next phase. The speed of the reopening depends on the actual figure for how many Danes are infected, how many are sick and how many are hospitalized. Let me just make it quite clear: the government is not going to let itself be pressured to move forward too quickly. It will not be beneficial to the economy if we are suddenly forced to go backwards again. The status is that we have succeeded in getting the infection under control in Denmark, and so far we have achieved the objectives that we set ourselves. We have saved lives, our health services have not collapsed, and the aid packages are holding hands under many employees, under many self-employed people and under many companies. I would like to call on you to stick to it and at the same time, step by step, to meet a new everyday life. Here we follow five tracks: tests, protective equipment, hygiene, physical distance and continue to avoid too many people gathering, so that we not only reopen all of Denmark, but also ensure that each of us can live a normal life again, safely and without spreading infection. You can also put it another way: we must not just survive the corona, we must also live with the corona. With these words, I shall begin by passing on the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130907	Thank you, Prime Minister. And the PM doesn't, no. The President shall give the floor in the Chamber. After the Prime Minister's reply, one brief comment can be made on the rapporteurs. And that is how the President gives the floor to Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429130926	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister. I think that's five fine and excellent clues for our dealings with each other. But I think it is clear to most that Denmark still lacks a long-term plan and, in particular, a plan that makes the link between economics and health that we are asking for. And that leads to such doubts about what is really true, both for citizens and also for companies. After all, the Prime Minister had an ambition for a controlled reopening. It is therefore surprising that the Minister for Industry seems to be panicking when IKEA opens up, and thus creates quite unreasonable insecurity, both for the company, but indeed also for the customers and for the employees of the company in question. Is that really fair? Is it reasonable that it should be the eyes and guts of a minister rather than the laws and orders and rules that apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131032	Are we absolutely sure that the concept of unfair insecurity can be used in a matter of IKEA's reopening in a world where thousands of people die because of corona and where communities comparable to ours have seen their health care collapse and where there can be neither life saving nor health care can help those who are sick? Well, in all due respect that we have to deal with a situation around IKEA, however, in the world we are living in right now I can find many examples of much more insecurity than the one in Denmark. And it is thanks to the fact that we have done things wisely in cooperation. Will there then be some concrete examples of something that does not immediately make sense? Yes, there will be. We have never shut down a society before, nor have we opened it before, so of course there will be some concrete examples that we will then have to solve and where we must do the best we can, and of course we must do the same about IKEA.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131133	The next rapporteur for a brief remark is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131137	I would like to follow up on this, because I really think it is an expression of the fact that the government's communication on what is and what is not has started to limp. I mean, I really think something has happened in the last few weeks where it seems more groping than in the past, and there may be all kinds of reasons for that, but one has to open up and tell us about that. Because it is clear that although it goes without saying that it is far more serious how the coronasmit spreads, and that people get sick and potentially die, it goes without saying that it is the most serious thing to do, it has nothing to do with the fact that at the same time you should not try to set out guidelines that will enable Denmark to function as much as possible now. And if you, as a company, follow all the rules of the game, all the rules that are laid down, and if you try to follow all the guidelines that the police make in relation to the important recommendations that I would also like to emphasise, and then you suddenly see in a television broadcast that a minister stands up and says that it may well be that you have followed all the rules of the game and that you are actually doing everything perfectly legally, but that the minister does not really think it is reasonable anyway, it is such a Corona police, such a minister in fact suddenly becomes head of, and then a company gets into a serious messs. Can the Prime Minister not follow that we will then have to deal with it while, of course, we respect the fact that the coronasmit is the most serious thing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131301	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131302	Yes, and that is why the only thing that is right is, of course, both that the Minister of Business is in good dialogue with IKEA and others, and that the partnerships we have launched together will find the concrete solutions so that the retail trade and others can open up in a way that is health-friendly. What is part of the explanation for this matter is that I take it as a health sign, if what is going to take us the most into account today is the issue of IKEA, because then it is actually a confirmation that we have actually solved a really, really difficult task together really, really well, and that is very positive, and I would like to thank you once again for not having legislated on everything in relation to the decommissioning of Denmark. Something has been legislated on, something else has been advised on, and something else has again been said about, and this gives some examples here in the opening where there are not exactly the same rules. I think we should always strive for the same rules, but I would almost guarantee that in a phase two and in a phase three there will also be some concrete examples, and we will then have to try to solve them as best we can along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131425	Then that's the next question, sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131428	Thank you so much. I do not know whether it is possible to agree with all those who have spoken so far at once, but I will nevertheless try. First of all, thank you for your cooperation, where we actually managed both to give the government the tools needed to intervene and to make that we are now in this situation, but also to thank you for the cooperation along the way, where we worked very quickly to keep our hands under those companies that we do not want to have in big trouble. That is why I think that it is really when there is an uncertainty as to what conditions it is, whether it is the educator who meets in the day-care institution or whether it is some of the closed companies who have voluntarily withdrawn and now want to be allowed to open again and then suddenly cannot find out what is really going on. That is why I think it would be a strong signal today if we could agree that in the process of planning the reopening of Denmark, which we must now have, there must be transparency about it, and when we make decisions, people must also be able to understand what conditions apply. I therefore believe that it is useful also to ensure that there is independent advice, and I would ask the Prime Minister to commit himself today too, because I believe that it will remedy many of the problems that we have been talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131541	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131542	I always think that independent advice is a good idea.I think that advice is a good idea at all, and not least in a situation where there is no facitlist where there is no reference work; the world has not experienced corona before, we have not tried to shut Denmark down, nor have we tried to open it. Therefore, advice from as many different sides as possible is both right and necessary. That is also what we have been using in the government so far, in other words outside advice and advice from our own authorities. I am in very, very close dialogue with my colleagues, not only in Europe but also in the world, with regard to getting both as many ideas and as much knowledge as possible on the basis of the decisions we take in Denmark. So we agree on that. This applies to health, health, and, of course, also to economics. That is why I am glad that the other day, two days ago, we had a meeting between all the party leaders of the Danish Parliament and independent leading economists, and there we could also hear actually fine support for a number of the decisions we have taken here in the Danish Parliament in order to get Denmark through the crisis as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131650	The next question is from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131653	In SF, we are pleased that Denmark has managed to deal with this together, that we have managed to deal with it as quickly as we have done, and that we are in the situation we are in right now. And it's very few places around the world where we can see that there are comparable terms. I think we should be happy about that and therefore I would also like to give a great deal of praise to the government for handling it so resolutely. We would also like to help in the process of reopening. And there are going to be a thousand questions, we have already experienced that now; the educator who asks: Is it safe now? Or: Should I stay at home when I have a next of kin who is vulnerable or suffering from a special illness? I think we have succeeded in doing this too, and it is important that we continue to have the ongoing and close dialogue and that we really do listen to people from outside. What is then interesting afterwards when we're on the other side of this is also to get an evaluation of the experiences that we've got, because I just think there are things we can learn from this. I think we can have a much more flexible public sector. I also think that we can learn that Denmark's health care system did not really feel so good when we got into this, because we could see that many years of bourgeois government have meant that our health care has been a little down, and that also means that we need to prioritise it even more forward. But I would really like the Prime Minister to say that the Prime Minister is willing to do that, because we can all learn more from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131811	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131812	I can give a very, very brief and precise answer to that: that is, of course, a yes. It should turn out that the corona became the biggest health crisis since the Second World War, with severe consequences for the global economy, for example, and that of course requires a thorough evaluation. One example: we did not have enough protective equipment when the crisis hit us. We were not able from the start to test to the extent that we have, moreover, struck a record again today in the number of tests in Denmark. I think it has revealed a vulnerability in Denmark, in Europe, in the Western world, where we rely on others in order to protect our own employees and our own citizens. That vulnerability seems untenable to me. I believe that a large part of the health infrastructure today is critical infrastructure. This means that we need to produce it ourselves or cooperate more closely on it among like-minded countries. So yes, I also think that there is reason to take note of that, and I think the people have also deserved it from Christiansborg's side of the story that one of the reasons why we get through this as well as the country that we seem to be doing is that we are a strong society (first Vice-President Thank you!), that we had a strong economy and low public debt, that we stood in a good place economically before, that we have a strong healthcare system, that we have an innovative public sector, and that, moreover, we have, as we cannot always hear, a Parliament that can work together, especially when it is on fire. And it suits us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429131948	We also have a Speaker of Parliament who would also like to have a debate on questions, and I would therefore ask that all speakers should keep to their speaking time. So when the President gets up, it is because the speaking time has passed. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132001	Thank you. The only problem with this debate is that it is not ten hours longer than it is scheduled for, because there are so many things to talk about. I know we are talking in closed rooms, but I think it is very good that we are also talking here where others can keep up, because I think there are many people who think: I wonder what they are talking about. You can have many approaches to it, and you can only reach a little, so I will just try to address what is about the opening of Denmark. I note that the Prime Minister says that there is a health concern I agree with that and that one can open up too quickly I agree with that, but, Prime Minister, can one also open too slowly? Understand that all of us who are sitting in here have ours on the dry spot, we get a paycheck through the door every month, no matter how good or bad we do, and that is of course fortunate for some of us.But there are people who lose their jobs every day and who depend on some activity and that the economy is going on. Now the government had last set up three scenarios, and they took the least and withdrew a little, and now we will probably have some new building blocks, and we are already doing that, but there will be a day when we will have to choose how far we dare to go and how much confidence we have in the Danes to comply with the restrictions that exist. And that's where I'm gonna have to ask, what's the Prime Minister thinking about that? Are you ready to go one step further, so not too many break their necks in this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132128	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132129	Yes, you can open it up slowly, and you can open it up quickly, and that is the golden middle way that we must succeed in finding together, and we will continue the negotiations on it tonight, and I look forward to that. What is so amazingly strong for Denmark is that we understand me rather • can open less than you can in many other countries because we have also closed less. After all, we have not closed off private production in Denmark. What is the case in a number of other countries is that we did not react quickly, as we did; the virus came out of control, and then we shut down and we shut down much more than we did in Denmark, for example. in the case of factories and private production. Some countries also have some of those who are close to us have had curfews, where people have not even been able to get out on the street, even children. We have avoided all of this because we were resolute and made the decision at the time it seems to be the right time. This means, of course, that we have not shut down private production and that a large part of the public sector has still been driven away, and now we are down to the fact that there are some areas that have been closed down and that we need to open up. But the answer is, yes, you can do it too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132235	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132238	Thank you for that and I would also like to thank you for the debate here. One of the things that has filled a lot both in the media and in many Danes' consciousness, I think, is our new collective commitment to testing. I am also terribly preoccupied with tests all of a sudden, and we are, of course, because at some point we are going to have to reopen. I also agree that we can both open up too quickly and too slowly and that we need to find a middle way there, because it is terrible about the jobs lost, but we must not move forward so quickly that our health system breaks down so that people lose their lives and so that the whole system can no longer function as we have seen in other countries. So we have to find that middle ground, and one of the ways, I think, to keep track of that path is testing, and that's why I've talked so much about testing strategies. That is also why we are now very concerned when we hear that there are problems with the antibody tests, i.e. that not everyone is valid or credible. It can cause a lot of different problems: both the fact that you can walk around and think that you are healthy without it and everything else, but also the fact that you can start new chains of infection. So what we are proposing is that we should have a kind of national centre to monitor the quality of antibody tests that are being used. Is this something the government wants to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132354	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132355	Firstly, I fully agree that testing is a very, very important part of our strategy. I also said that in my introduction today, and this applies both to testing for the disease, and also to antibodies. And we need to constantly develop the technology, and it is both about the quality of the tests, and it is about the speed, so that you can get an answer to what that test might contain. I can delight the Danish Parliament that Denmark has been invited into a global coalition of what is called first movers, that is, countries that have responded quickly to the corona virus. It is Australia, New Zealand, Singapore is on its way, it is Israel, it is a few European countries, including Austria and Denmark. I am proud on behalf of Denmark that we are involved in this new global cooperation, and some of what we have agreed to continue working on is precisely the healthcare supply infrastructure, including all that has to do to open up our society, for example. also in connection with testing. So it may be one of the places where we can work together with other countries to make an even better test regime work in earnest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132504	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132507	Thank you. There is no doubt that we need to open up, and the figures are also for us to open up more. From the New Citizens' side, we would like to see large centres and restaurants also opened in this round. Then we have a demand crisis, and one of the proposals we have made in New Citizens is to give back citizens their frozen holiday money. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what positive effects does the Prime Minister see in doing so? I am well aware that we are talking about the liquidity challenge, but if we finance it through short-term government bonds, so that the state takes over these things, we are precisely solving the liquidity challenge. In fact, companies are given better liquidity because they are able to pay in to the State on an ongoing basis. So the two challenges that were, by doing so, that is. An overheating of the economy and a liquidity challenge in companies, we can probably agree that is not a problem right now. This solution solves the two challenges that did not traditionally want to give the money back. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what positive effects will the Prime Minister see if they gave the citizens some more money that they could spend in restaurants and in stores that we are opening now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132613	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132614	It can be said that the idea of stimulating demand is not alien to a social democrat. That is the way in which we have conducted crisis policy throughout all times. You can then discuss the balance in it, where you want to stimulate the economy, and how to do it most purposefully and wisely. I have no doubt that in the negotiations we will also be discussing this issue of holiday money, and it is clear that if the fact that you pay the holiday money sits in that the Danes then use it when the restaurants open, to go to the restaurant when the hotels open, to book an overnight stay with the spouse, to buy more, to buy a cup of coffee, and what else you do, of course, it will be positive. I think that what I would like to warn against in general terms, and that applies in general to the debate, is a belief that a single solution is the decisive one. This is so complex, there are so many things that play together, and we are so dependent on the rest of the world that our overall political thinking and creativity must reach a height that the Danes have not yet seen, so that we can get through the whole thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132720	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132722	Thank you for that and thank you for your statement to the Prime Minister. I think that these are five very good and sensible points that are being outlined, with tests and protective equipment, etc. and non-super-proliferation. Especially with the physical distance, the social distance, the considerate behavior is like keywords and crucial to being able to reopen Denmark to a greater extent. What the calculations show over and over again is that we can actually open up more parts of society, but it depends to a very, very large extent on whether the Danes can behave considerably. There I think that the crucial point must be clear and clear guidelines on how to open up different sections of society and what behaviour to live up to, and politically it is also a question of confidence and confidence that the Danes can comply with those guidelines. I really want to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with that, because I actually thought that we should come up with that, because it can hardly be any different, but when I see how the IKEA case is handled, I am a little worried, because there were some guidelines that we lived up to, but was it so confident and confident that they could be respected that were missing? Is it a general trend on the part of the government, i.e. that we do not think in terms of guidelines and trust, because if that is the case, I am afraid that the corona crisis will turn into a Community crisis, because then there are a lot of communities that we cannot grow in this society for many months to come, and that would be unhappy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132844	Thank you to the questioner. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132847	One of the things that has been most convincing in this first phase of the fight against corona has been the way the Danes have handled the situation, and it has been for ug with ticks and snakes. It has been great to see how virtually everyone in our society, businesses and citizens, families, private and public, all of them, has come together in a very, very strong community to do what it took to get us through this. Therefore, my confidence in the Danes is very, very great, also in terms of complying with the guidelines. When we do not just open everything up, it is because the health professional assessment is that you will also release the infection, because even if all Danes do everything right, the infection is here, and therefore it is not only a matter of behavior. It is very much a question of behaviour, but it is also a question of ensuring that the framework of social life is for the infection not to spread too quickly and too explosively. That is why it is a controlled opening that we are in the process of, and not just a complete opening from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132951	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429132954	Thank you very much. My main concern is not IKEA or some of the largest Danish companies, which have come into the corona crisis from a boom. In the alternative, we are more concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises. And we are particularly concerned about the start-ups, that is, those who have put pressure on liquidity and perhaps have barely achieved a year of profits yet, and the entrepreneurs, who may be in the process of the very first few years, when they barely have any earnings, and when time goes by with the cost, development and processing of one's product. I fear that many of them have gone bankrupt or go bankrupt. One of the things we are thinking about is how to avoid losing too much of a generation of entrepreneurs or perhaps, if we are unfortunate, something that will look like a whole generation of entrepreneurs. Can we create recovery pools, packages or plans for start-ups who simply did not have a chance and who went completely bankrupt without it being their fault, without there being anything wrong with their business idea, or for entrepreneurs who have been knocked down but who have a healthy business idea? Could we consider a plan to try to save them or get them back up again so as not to lose any of the know-how and learning that are in those companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133106	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133107	There are actually a few things I would like to say to that. Well, first of all, I think we should be careful to distinguish between how strong companies get into this crisis, because with the assessments we get out of the global economy, even though the IMF has recently predicted that Denmark is one of the countries that actually seems to get through this; well in the sign of the crisis, but relatively better than some comparable countries, the aftermath of this is potentially so great that old, big, high-ranking companies can have a hard time. Whether it is a small, large, new or old company, i.e. whether it is a new entrepreneur, or it is great-grandfather who started up in the company, I must say that I feel like I am equally affected when the bankruptcy is a reality, or when you can suddenly see a violent decline and you have to fire your employees so that the company is suddenly a completely different place. So I would strongly urge that, both in terms of the aid packages and also in terms of the long-term recovery, we have an eye on the entire Danish business community with all its differences. And we are a small open economy dependent on exports. Therefore, the development of the global market is of course very, very important for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133232	Thank you, Prime Minister. All the rapporteurs have been given the opportunity to comment briefly, and now it is then possible for the Minister of Finance to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133242	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to express the economic aspects of the very difficult situation we are facing. There is no doubt that the Danish economy is in a serious situation. Unfortunately, bad news for Danish business has also marked the past few days. It is both worrying and sad when a company, whether new or old, small or large, turns the key around and finds itself forced to say goodbye to the employees. I and the government are well aware that both employees, companies and self-employed people around the country are currently struggling hard to make the economy and everyday life work together. In the midst of the worries and gloomy news, there are also positive things that are worth noting. The Danes have taken responsibility for each other and for the community, and I would like to take this opportunity today to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for a very good cooperation and also for strong common solutions that we have made with each other since the crisis broke out. We have in this Parliament with all the parties of the Danish Parliament made aid packages for approx. 400 billion kr. It is Danish folk rule at its best, and it has helped to hold hands during a great many jobs. We have come a long way and we are now already cautiously opening up our society again, and so we have also entered a new phase. It is important for the government that the reopening takes place in a healthy way and with a focus on securing jobs. Yesterday I sent an analysis to the Folketing, which gives a picture of the depth and extent of the economic crisis, both for the economy as a whole and for the individual industries. What is emerging is a massive setback for the Danish economy. The indicators indicate that the total Danish production is currently 10-20 per cent. lower than usual, and particularly hard hit are among other things. hotel and restaurant business. It is a snapshot and there is still great uncertainty. We do not know how long the gradual reopening of society will take. It depends on the disease, and we do not know how the economic crisis in the world develops either. Therefore, for the sake of good order, there is also an opportunity to say that there is great uncertainty about the scenarios and also the calculations you can make right now. We sail without charts because no one's ever done this before. Our analysis also shows that it is difficult to separate the effect of the measures taken against the disease and the fact that the Danes have changed behaviour and have become more reluctant in their consumption. You can see that when we look at Sweden. Here the health restrictions have been less extensive than here at home, and yet Swedish economy is also experiencing a hard setback. So we should not think that all the problems in the economy go away, as long as we relax the restrictions aimed at bringing the health crisis under control. All countries are currently experiencing the consequences of the corona virus. The global economy is facing unprecedented setbacks in recent history. We have to go back to the recession of the 1930s. According to the IMF, the world economy will experience a deep recession by 2020. This is bad news for a small country like Denmark, where we live very much on our openness to the outside world and where more than 700,000 Danish jobs directly or indirectly depend on our ability to export to the rest of the world. At the same time, the IMF expects Denmark to be among the western economies, which are relatively least affected by the corona epidemic, while a number of countries, especially in southern Europe, are expected to experience a major fall in GDP this year. At home in Denmark, it is now a question of pursuing the right policy at the right time. The government therefore sees the recovery of Danish economy in two phases. First one we're in the middle of now. Here we are holding hands under Danish jobs and companies while health restrictions are on. The second stage is a real economic recovery that must boost Denmark's recovery when it is justifiable for us to reopen society. The government wants to take action with long-term and also smart investments, where we keep demand up in the economy and at the same time think about every time we spend 1 kr. We have a unique opportunity to make the recovery of Denmark green, so at the same time we are helping to lift our common climate ambitions, and we must of course seize that opportunity. But it is also important that we take things in the right order. Economic policy must be properly dosed, otherwise we are in fact in danger of doing more harm than good, and the reopening of society must take place at a reasonable pace, where we can keep an eye on the spread of infection, and in the same way we must balance economic policy. The Government's hope is, of course, that the health figures will continue to develop positively, because this means that we can speed up the pace of growth, and we look forward, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, to addressing the next stages, as well as, of course, in relation to the economy. We have shown with the aid packages that we have a Parliament in Denmark, where all parties take responsibility and help act, and that will also be needed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133915	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Just like the Prime Minister, there will now be the opportunity for the rapporteurs to make a brief comment. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429133925	Thank you for that and also thank the Minister for Finance. I very much agree that it is Danish folk rule when it is best that we sat together and quickly made aid packages. Unfortunately, it is also Danish bureaucracy when it is worst that the aid packages have not really gotten their feet on yet, and that many companies are standing out there calling for some money to actually enter the account. It's May 1st in a few days, and some roll out the red tabs, while others have some blood-red accounts. If they do not receive the help that we have promised them and that we have agreed in here before then, there are people who will lose their jobs. That is why, of course, I am glad that there seems to be a solution in the area of compensation for wages, but I also think it is high time. But one is a late payment, another is the system of compensation. I understand that part of this has been agreed in a tripartite agreement. But does the Minister really think that it is reasonable for companies with this agreement not to be able to make use of their employees in the part of the employee's time for which the company itself pays?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134039	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134040	I very, very much agree that it is essential that the help that we in the Danish Parliament have agreed to get to the companies to hold hands under the jobs should come out quickly. Thousands of companies have already received help at this stage. But it is also true that there have been even more applicants than they had thought, and that work is being done on high pressure. A few hours ago, the Minister for Business was out with new measures to ensure that the money comes out here too up to 1 May. This isn't about waving red tabs, it's about us standing together across the parties in the Folketing to get this money out to the companies, to the employees, and then it's also about us in Denmark with the social partners having made an agreement on wage compensation, which has helped a lot of companies, and where there is also a high degree of flexibility built into them, and it has helped Denmark to get through this serious situation better than many other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134152	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134155	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. It is true that, apart from the fact that we are facing a health challenge here, we are also facing an enormous economic challenge, and that is why this is something that interests us all, also as to the impact it will have on the future opportunities we have as a society. Now, for example, we saw. Right here yesterday, SAS had to fire half of their employees, and it shows something about the drama in this. I would therefore really like to ask the Minister for Finance what he has to say about what this will have to do with the future economic opportunities we have. When I ask, it is because the government's support party Enhedslisten last Sunday was out giving at least some in the public sector the impression that there could be 5 billion. kr. extra in the pay pool for next year's negotiations. After all, we are all concerned that the health professionals who are on the front line in relation to the health task really can feel that we are protecting them, and that we are standing behind them in the huge work they are doing and have full respect for it, but it is clear that if there is such an overbiding policy, in relation to whom some money can be put on the table in this respect, it is interesting to know whether the Minister of Finance supports that proposal and thinks it is a good idea to go that way and show respect for the health staff in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134314	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134314-2	Like, I believe, the whole parliament has huge respect for our health care professionals. I have it on a daily basis, and I have it especially now. At the same time, it is also the case that we are in an extraordinary situation, both in terms of health and also in terms of the economic aspect, and that, precisely because it is so extraordinary and because we have been able to make temporary arrangements, we have been able to put money into play that we would not normally be able to use. That is why it is also important to say that with the aid packages we have made and the initiatives we have taken, we are talking about money that we are spending, because it is an investment in getting our businesses and jobs through the crisis in the best possible way, but it is also money that we will have to pay back at some point. That is why it is not the case that there is something called corona money that you can just use, and then there will be no bill at a later date. What we have done is, in my view, wise, that is to say, to hold hands under Danish companies and Danish jobs, but it is not the case that as Minister of Finance I just have an open checkbook from now on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134436	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134438	I also think that it has been strong to experience the cooperation that has been in the Danish Parliament around the rescue packages. It is unique moments when we all bowed relatively quickly to each other, from the Danish People's Party's proposal to suspend the 225-hour rule of agreement on the daily allowance.It is among parties that may have discussed it once or twice over the ages and to billions of state guarantees for huge companies in Denmark. It was important. I would also like to signal here that I thought this was a good signal about the payment of wage compensation. For our sake, it can easily be extended to compensation for fixed costs and other elements, because that money is needed. And of course control must be carried out, but that is not the case, if the companies have gone down and back in the meantime, then we may have done so much control. My question is therefore directed more towards export markets. Is it not the case that when we look out in Europe, the position of the Danish Government is not one of the most offensive, compared to what one can do to support the rise in European demand, but on the contrary one is in fact a little in a group of countries that hold back a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134558	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134559	Together, we have a huge interest in ensuring that not only Denmark, but the whole of Europe and the whole world get through this crisis in the best possible way. This is true in terms of saving lives, and it is also true in terms of saving jobs and businesses. And that is why Denmark has also made a European contribution to making aid packages. But if the question is to be understood, if it is a good idea, for example. Italy has to borrow money to get through the crisis, that it is something that Denmark has to pay for and that we have to hang on to the debt that Italy might want to establish, then we do not think it is a good idea. We must act wisely, and it is clear that when we see that all economies are now being challenged, including the Danish one, every penny we spend, whether on schemes in the EU or the future EU budget, is the money that needs to be spent as sensibly as possible in creating jobs, in relation to the green transition. But it is also money that we cannot then spend at home, and there I just think there is the difference that the Radical Left wants to spend more money when it comes to making EU budgets than the government does. And I don't think that's changed by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134730	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134734	I am glad that we have all jointly made these economic agreements and that we have so much kept our hands on the Danish economy. This has been absolutely crucial. There is no question about that. But I also believe that we need to face up to the fact that this is a transitional phase. These are aid packages which are temporary, because the Danish economy cannot bear to hold hands under the companies forever, and what becomes interesting is how we get on the other side. SF is very concerned that it is going to be a green direction, that we are investing in a green recovery package, and that is why we have also said very clearly that yes, we must hold our hands under SAS. It is one of the most green airlines we have and they also have better pay and working conditions than others in the industry. But when we do so, we also want to look at public transport, which has suffered during this crisis, because people have been asked not to take it, and that we also make sure that we invest in public transport and at least make sure that it does not suffer because of the lack of passenger numbers it has had. What does the Minister of Finance say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134839	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134840	I very much agree that when we open society up again and when we have to set the Danish economy in motion, we have to think green and that we also have to think in terms of climate, and there the government is responsive to all the good proposals that might come from the parties to that. As the state-minster has also mentioned, we expect to make the first part of the climate action plans towards the summer holidays, and this is also a good opportunity for us to talk about what initiatives could be in the green area in the broadest sense. This applies to transport, and this applies in other ways. At the same time, I would just like to say that our wage compensation and other aid packages are also in place to keep our hands on parts of public transport, so that we too, as a society, have taken care of the fact that that part of our community is challenged right now, because there are simply fewer people using public transport than would normally be, just as our entire society is affected by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134946	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429134949	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance. I think there are a lot of concerns in our society right now. One thing is, if you have a family member in the risk group or you are, that is, the whole health hazard, another thing is the economic concerns. There are a lot of people who have lost their jobs and who are already insanely concerned about how to pay insurance bills and everything else. There are also many people who are just so concerned about the slightly longer future prospects. What will become of the Danish welfare society, all the money they pour out from in here, they think, where do they come from, and should they be taken from our educators and our teachers and everything else? At the same time, we hear voices in the public debate saying that we must now be prepared for the fact that there is no longer any provision for welfare or that we must now postpone the 70-percent objective and we cannot invest in climate. I just really wanted that, and I think that would ease both my concern and that of others, if the Minister of Finance would confirm that the Minister of Finance agrees that investment in climate and investment in welfare is also something that can create jobs and get us through this crisis in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135059	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135100	I fully agree with that, in other words, while we are hit as hard by the crisis as we are, there is also an opportunity, when we have to invest in our society in the future, to use those investments wisely, including when it comes to the green agenda and climate. In addition to the fact that we still have the 70-percent target for climate problems, we have not gone away, because we have had the corona crisis so also an opportunity to invest and get some wheels going in Denmark, hold hands under some of the jobs we already have, and help create new ones that will come in the future. So I think, in any case, that we look at it very much the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135149	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135153	Thank you. I think that many of us, like the Minister of Finance, are looking forward to the next phase, that is to say, where we will have some negotiations on what kind of investment we will have to make and how we will get the Danish economy back on track. We will probably have the opportunity to talk a lot about that at a later stage. We sail without charts, said the minister. I very much agree with that. That applies to all of us right now. But the vote of expectation is sometimes very good, especially for those who suffer. The economic crisis we are going to face after this, we are agreed that it will be profoundly understood in that way. Well, we're not gonna get that straight home. After all, not all companies get back up quickly. Everything's not gonna happen right away. Some break their necks. It will be a battle when it is, unemployment will fall again, and I do not think we have seen the top of the unemployment line, at all, yet, unfortunately. I would like to ask if this is not the time for us to be honest, and this may be with a little opposite sign than the previous one asking · and saying to the Danes: Dear people, they will not be able to afford all the things we would like because the money is not there. The money must be paid back; it is the tribulation of loans. And the second is, of course, that when there is no such dynamic in society, it will have a consequence. So, where does the Minister get the optimism that this is going to mean nothing at all to our welfare community? I think we should say to the Danes: Dear friends, there will be a few years here where we will just have a little narrowneck.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135332	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135334	What I was asked about was whether I thought that the situation we are facing could be used to help solve the climate challenge and create jobs there. And I believe that, and I would actually believe that the party that is usually the green party in the blue block will agree with that. What this is in right now is going to mean in the long run not only for Denmark's economy, but also for other countries, is too early to say, but we are very, very concerned that we will get through it in a way that we will get the Danish economy in a green direction, that we will take good care of our welfare society and that we may even be able to create a fairer society on the way. This is the very difficult task we face together, and the government is taking on that task, and we hope that we will do so together with, among others. Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135434	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135437	Thank you. The Minister for Finance and, as such, the Prime Minister also referred to the IMF, and that is wonderful, because the IMF also says that the crisis we are facing in 2020 will result in a growth in 2021, where we will actually be back on track with significantly higher growth rates. That is why the crisis that we are facing now is indeed a temporary crisis that requires us to act and that the actions we are taking now will benefit the citizens out there immediately. Then we are talking about climate measures, and the Prime Minister said that we should not just look at one solution, and I am glad of that, because in New Citizens we have many goods on the shelves, and one of the things we want to do is completely remove or at least start by halving the electricity tax, for example. That is something which, frankly, is a political cheek egg. It will improve competitiveness, it will give more money between the hands of the citizens out there that they can use for consumption, and at the same time it will also move on to this shift from fossil fuel to renewable energy sources. So could the Minister of Finance try to make some comments on what positive effects the Minister of Finance sees by halving the electricity tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135543	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135544	First of all, I see a positive effect from the fact that New Citizens join the field as a constructive party and have done so all the way through this process. I'd like to sign for that. I am quite sure that, like the SF's proposals on public transport, and that there is now electricity tax, all the parties will make their bid on how we can create green solutions, how we can create green jobs, and we will accept that. In other words, we are in a situation where we listen to everyone and do not reject anything in advance, and then we must sit down and see which parties when we get there, who are ready to make agreements and take responsibility, and how we then spend the money wisely in that situation. And back to a question from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen: Will there be money for all wishes here in the Folketing? No, I can promise in advance that it will not, so we will have to give priority to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135647	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135650	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance. Now I've been bitching about this bias that's in that you can ask one question without having a follow-up. It is quite unfair for ministers if they do not want to answer the question directly. But I think that you may be able to make a new rule: if the questioner asks a very simple question, the Minister is obliged to answer yes or no. That is why I am going to try to ask a very simple question, and that is: with the prospect that we are facing a difficult economic crisis, even after the reopening, how many companies are threatened with life, can the Minister already guarantee that the government will not raise taxes or impose new burdens on business on the other side of the summer and the year out yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135739	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135744	It is always nice in politics to present those with whom you talk to, to yes/no questions. Sometimes the world is a little bit more complicated, even in a Parliament hall. We have a Danish business community that is currently struggling hard to keep its head above water, and the government is not going around with any current plans for new taxes and taxes in relation to our business community. But I am not going to give up any tools today, nor are you going to be allowed to use one thing or another, either next month or next year. It must depend on what kind of economic situation we find ourselves in, what specific initiatives we need to take. One might also ask oneself: if we were to bring the logic of the Liberal Alliance to an end, we would not be able to make any changes either, because that would mean that something was set up and other things were put down. With all due respect for the fact that it is easy to ask for a yes/no answer, I also think in the name of objectivity that one might have to see it a little in a context and that it is a little more complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135849	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135852	So I did not get an answer to my question either, so now I am trying to put it to the Minister for Finance. What is the situation of the start-ups, therefore, of those who are pressured on liquidity and may have barely made any profits yet and who are developing new businesses? What does it look like for entrepreneurs, for example? Those who may not have made any money at all yet and who are trying to refine a business idea and make it profitable and who may not make a profit until a few years' time? My concern is that we may lose half a generation of entrepreneurs and starters who have now simply gone bankrupt or who are down and who are not really helping to provide support packages, because after you have gone all the way down, there is no support. Then you could imagine making some recovery plans for them, especially for those who are down, but whose knowledge we need, whose know-how we need, whose development we need, because they are part of the food chain for Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135946	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429135949	I share the concern that many of our entrepreneurs are in an extremely difficult situation, and that is why I am actually also pleased that all the parties in the Danish Parliament, including the alternative, have succeeded in making not only the first aid packages, but also the adjustments to them here a very short time ago, when we are just going in and targeting it, also in relation to entrepreneurs, and also in making the net more finely masked than it was in the first aid packages, because there are some that do not just fit into the templates that we had made in the first hug. This is among other things. some of what the Alternative has pointed out as an issue. That is also some of what we have helped to solve. When we are on the other side of the aid packages at some point, we have to look at what tools it is, what tools it is that can best help raise Danish business. This is true in relation to entrepreneurs, as is the case with small and medium-sized enterprises, those who primarily live on domestic demand, including our export companies. So for the government, the entrepreneurs are one of the things we are most concerned with, but we are also looking at the overall picture of Danish business, and I think that is really wise in a situation where not only entrepreneurs, but all companies in Denmark are in one way or another affected by this, and some even really, really hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140126	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. I give the floor to the Minister for Health and the Elderly to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140134	Thank you for the floor. After all, when we reopen society, we must always steer according to what is sound in terms of health, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have stated from the outset. We must ensure that our health services can keep up so that we do not end up in a situation that we have unfortunately seen in many other parts of the world with a health service in collapse. In short: Denmark must stay on the green curve. Therefore, we closely follow the development of the figures for the number of infected, the number of patients hospitalised in intensive care and patients in respirator. And that's a good development we're seeing in this time. Over the last period, we have seen that it has enabled us to increase the activity of our health services. This means that health care can now again receive and treat patients with diseases other than covid-19, but we are also aware that there is a delay, from an increase in the pressure of infection in society, until it begins to be read in the hospitalization figures. Health authorities are constantly updating calculations based on the patterns we see and as we learn about viruses and gain experience from other countries. And it is calculations and professional assessments that form part of the basis of the decisions on the reopening of society; these are the ones that we share with the parties of the Folketing in the negotiations on reopening that are also taking place in these days and weeks. I would like to elaborate on the test strategy, which the Prime Minister also mentioned in his introduction. In order to open up the Danish society again, an increased testing across the population is essential, in other words to ensure a balanced and controlled resumption of various activities in our society. It is therefore a question of targeted and intensive testing. This is an absolutely essential condition for keeping the covid-19 epidemic in check to ensure special protection for the most vulnerable. Tests shall be supplemented by effective detection and isolation. Specifically, the covid-19-infected person must be isolated, and contacts with the infected person must be tracked down and tested on a regular basis, so that the infection does not spread in our society. Health authorities are currently working on a concrete plan for effective detection of infection and how it should be dealt with in concrete terms. As you know, it is agreed with the parties of the Folketing in the context of negotiations on reopening that an overall test strategy must be presented, and it is part of the agreement that this strategy, among other things. must include tests on front, relatives and vulnerable groups, and a representative sample of the population must be tested so that developments can be followed. That strategy will be presented to the parties in the context of these negotiations on the second phase of reopening. The starting point is that tests are going to run in two tracks. One track is a health track that is in health care, and there we can see that the number of tests is increasing day by day. We're up to 13,000 tests in the last 24 hours. And next to it, we have the separate social track, which takes place under the auspices of Testcenter Denmark, which has worked hard to increase the test capacity in both tracks. And with the 13,000 tested in the last 24 hours, we are now up to testing 180,000 people in Denmark. It is going the right way, and we must continue along that path. Test centre Denmark becomes visible out around these days, in 16 cities around the country, where the white tents are being erected. It is based on close collaboration between the Statens Serum Institut, Novo Nordisk and Novo Nordisk Foundation, which have developed the testing technology, so that the Statens Serum Institut can analyse tests and not be in competition with the laboratories we have in our healthcare system, which also has scarce resources. And these tents will be used continuously as the crew and logistics are in place. The enhanced test capacity should be used to continue to ensure timely treatment of people who become ill by covid-19; limit spread of infection, especially in relation to vulnerable groups; monitor spread of infection; stop infection chains and support controlled reopening and ensure security of the population. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140602	Thank you to the Minister for Health. As with the other two ministers, a brief comment will now be made on the rapporteurs. I shall ask Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen to give his. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140613	Thank you, President-in-Office. I was just able to press on and also thank the Minister for Health for furthering the whole field of testing strategy. I can read in today's edition of Jyllands-Posten that we now have another new test strategy, and it is good to get clarification from the Minister of Health. The minister mentions the fact that you are now up to a capacity to test 13,000. And I know that the government says that the testing strategy has not been adapted according to capacity, but I would like to ask you a few questions about capacity and coherence with the strategy, because I understand that 42 000 people will be tested daily. Can the Minister say anything about when they are expected to be up to that level? Well, after all, there are 29,000 daily tests that remain out of date so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140716	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140717	Thank you. It is quite true that it is very ambitious. And if you compare it with other countries, it is a very ambitious test strategy that we have in Denmark. But we are also in a situation where, together with all Danes and the Danish Parliament's parties, we have beaten the pressure of infection so far, while at the same time our amazing business community has helped to beat up and hammer our test capacity so high. And it gives us a unique opportunity now to be actively able to detect and actively do what needs to be tested in order to open society up at the rate at which we still control it. So it's absolutely crucial. Last week the record was 11,000 a day, I think it was, now we're up to 13,000, and the goal is that we in the white tents should be able to test 20,000 a day. There is the assessment from the Serum Institute that the 10,000 per day will be round during the month of May, and in the health care system you will be able to round 20 000 also in the coming weeks. So that means that we who look into what we expect and hope will be a steep curve. But there are reservations, and the reservations are that we need to produce test kits, and we need to deliver part of things from abroad. These are the reservations which all countries, including Denmark of course, are working under.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140830	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140834	Thank you. A good week ago it was as if there was a very great deal of dissatisfaction on the part of the government with the director of the Statens Serum Institute, when what he said was being interpreted as if we had to prepare ourselves for this very abnormal situation for the whole world to last at least a year. I really want to ask the Minister for Health why the government, among other things. in the question hour here with the Prime Minister last Tuesday, reacted so strongly that this statement was attributed to the director of the Statens Serum Institute. Is it not actually very fair and proper for the Danish people to put the cards on the table and say that this is how you see it, and that in this situation we must prepare ourselves for something very, very long and that we must therefore find a way of adjusting ourselves differently than we have in a while, perhaps until there is a vaccine against the coronasmite?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140935	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429140937	There is a very, very close and good working relationship with our health authorities and our agencies, and specifically also the Statens Serum Institute. So I don't agree with that interpretation. But when you heard Kår Mølbak at the press conference on the same day that the paper was published, telling about his point of view and his message, you could hear that it is one scenario out of a variety of scenarios. And my experience is that in the time we are at the moment, it is so that if there are experts who interfere in the debate, which I think is a gift we have in Denmark, the best experts, internationally recognised experts, then sometimes journalists take one of the scenarios and blow it on the front page, while the four other scenarios then do not get blown up on the front page. For example: This is also linked to a more offensive test strategy, and it is also linked to the fact that we do not know how the virus might mutate and we do not know how immunity will spread. We do not know all these things yet, so unfortunately there are a large number of uncertainties. We are generally in favour of a large and broad debate, in which I think it is only a quality that we are brought to the point of view and analysis by the leading experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141042	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141046	I have done so before, and I would also like to do so today, sign for the huge work that has been done on the whole of health, both the said authorities, but also the front staff out there. I do not think it should be neglected on this occasion either to give them a huge thank you for that. One thing I would then like to touch upon is something about the reopening, where we actually started with the young children. After all, some vacillation arose around the guidelines that came for the reopening; perhaps one had said with a glimpse in the eye that it was not always the experience that someone had had their day-to-day walk in schools and day-care institutions that had made them all at least. It was very difficult to navigate. In order to avoid a repetition of it when we reopen other things, we agreed on the 17/4 that we should launch some sectoral partnerships, and I think it took us a good week before we approved it on Saturday. And at least I have the impression that they are still not really going away. After all, they have the common denominator that the health authorities must be included in all of them, so that we can have guidelines ready that can be used in reality and not first have to be adapted. That is why I would just like to ask how the dialogue is progressing so that it can be the basis for the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141157	Minister for Health and the Elderly, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141158	First of all, thank you for your introductory remarks. That can't be said too often. In relation to the messages that we get and you certainly get them too, both on your social media and generally on mail and other • it means infinitely much that there is a broad political recognition of the work being done around the clock throughout Denmark. So thank you for that. I also think I should be quite honest, and I fully agree that in this reopening process we shall now also be meeting today with the parties of the Danish Parliament, even though we will all sit and take account of all things, there will probably be something two days later that we have not taken into account, so we will just have to meet again and say what we do in this situation. But that does not change the fact that the sectoral partnerships can help to tell us quickly and effectively. I have no knowledge of how things are going everywhere, but I know that in the area that is my responsibility: the elderly, because it is both health authorities and the elderly authorities, and it is all in the Ministry of Health and the Elders' Department that they are housed in the beginning of this week, but it is also with Parliament's parties that this is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141311	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141314	Something that has been very clear during this crisis has been that Denmark has lacked protective equipment, testing, medicine for patients in respirators, intensive care units and much more. In fact, we may have had a health service that has been running straight on the border for many years. The employees have done a really good job, but you've been extremely pressured out there. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Health whether we should not say, on the basis of this, that we should look into our health services in the future and make sure that there is perhaps a small surplus in it so that we may succeed in a similar pandemic in the future. Unfortunately, as I can hear various health experts, it is not unlikely that this can happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141405	Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141407	Thank you for raising the fundamental debate. That's absolutely right. We also heard the Prime Minister say today that there are now things that have not previously been seen as critical infrastructure in society, for example. the question of protective equipment, which we must regard as part of the critical infrastructure at national level. Something else is whether, if you look at it overall, not only in Denmark, not only in Europe, but throughout the world, how medicine production has moved to certain parts of the world and you are largely dependent on many things that you otherwise have no chance of influencing, then a situation that is particularly good to base one hundred percent on. Was it perhaps wiser to be much, very thorough and ask ourselves some big questions, both in Denmark and in Europe, about how we can be best prepared for possible future epidemics, a possible wave two • We simply do not know how this one will develop and other health crises, which we certainly know we will risk facing in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141509	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141512	Thank you. With regard to test strategy and tests, etc. I understand that we are entering a new country, but with all due respect, I think it may sometimes be me who hasn't been following it properly, has been a little difficult to find out exactly what the strategy has been, and it may have cycled around a bit. Then we had to test, and then we didn't have to test, equipment was something that we didn't have to spread out too much etc., and now we're, I understand, first mover. I think it's good if we've become what I understand we're on the Director of the Health Service. Can the Minister understand that it has been a little difficult to relate to the background to which the strategy has been and what has been behind it? You could get the feeling of it. You didn't have enough test kits, and then someone said that testing isn't important in relation to the strategy, instead of just saying that you should test more, but you don't have the equipment. It is as if you have adapted the strategy to whether you had it or not, and I think that is a pity. I cannot quite explain what has actually been going on in that process, and I may not have to, but I think it has been confusing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141623	Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141625	Thank you for that question. I think it is quite right that there are a lot of people discussing it. Because just before Enhedslisten we heard that they are also preoccupied with tests, and it is a bit of an innovation in the Danish Parliament that Enhedslisten is also in favour of testing, so we are all concerned about that. All Danes and the world's researchers are preoccupied with it, and that is the way it should be, and it is a very crucial principle that is highlighted here, namely that the strategy should not be driven by capacity. It must be the case that we have a strategy that is driven by health care and the things that we want with our society, namely a reopening, and then we must work to ensure that capacity follows from that strategy, and that work has been extremely difficult in Denmark and in the rest of the world. That is why we really cannot emphasise enough the help that we have also received from Danish companies, which have been quite phenomenally good. Then I would like to say that the interview today in Jyllands-Posten is an emphasis and a deepening of what came from the Danish Health Service 8 days ago in some guidelines which I may not think all journalists have just read. That's why all of a sudden it's gonna be big news. So it's not news, but it's fine to get it told that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141737	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141740	Thank you. I'd like to hear if we gave that health care worker a little more than a thank you. In other words, we are all sending them all a great deal of thanks and respect and so on, and I also know that not everyone, like me, thinks that in the public collective bargaining we should lift their salaries, but we could at least agree that they have earned more colleagues and perhaps better working conditions to go to work than they have had in the past many years. Because now it really shows how important they are, that is to say, the critical functions we call them, isn't it? But what they have worked over the last ten years has been low wages, cuts, more tasks, fewer colleagues. So could we not, at least the political majority that is in here, agree that we would like to send them a little more than a thank you, or at least work to ensure that they also have proper relations with the heartfelt thanks?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141843	Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141844	I think that's a good point, all the time, before the covid-19 hit Europe and Denmark, our hospitals were squirted around, and they delivered a huge effort. After all, the money was spent, which is why it was really necessary for the government, together with the support parties, to set aside money to increase the number of nurses, and we are fully committed to that agreement, and we will continue to do so. Right now, there is the very special situation, but that does not change, as we normalize this, that improving working conditions, among other things. by securing more colleagues is a work that we are absolutely determined to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141936	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429141939	Thank you. I don't have to ask the Minister for tests. There we have the advantage of talking many times during the week, when we go into these matters in more detail. But I would like us to talk a little bit about this hump, which is now in relation to operations, because we have had an emergency response. It is estimated that it can be up to 25,000-30,000 operations that we need to complete now. I think we all agree that no Danes should go around and be sick longer than necessary. That is why I would like to ask what benefits the Minister sees in that we spend 100 per cent. of the capacity of the private hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142020	Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142021	I see all the benefits of it. I see only bad things by not doing it, and that means that the government will do everything we can to use all that capacity. I know that what is meant, of course, is both private and public, and we need everything we have in our capacity to get that hump planned as well and as quickly as possible. It would be wrong for me to stick people in the eye and say that it has just been done quickly. Because while that happens, we have to deal with covid-19 patients. This is roughly equivalent to an extra-large provincial hospital in every region we have to deal with, while at the same time the hump has to be wooed off. So this is a hard work and a lot of work, and there we need to use all the capacity, everything we have, all the employees, all the living rooms, everywhere, both public and private.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142113	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142117	Thank you. I would like to follow up on my fellow Members' questions. I'll see if I can reach two now when it's follow-up questions. One is a follow-up question on Lars Boje Mathiesen's question. The Minister says that it is a good idea to exploit the full capacity of private hospitals, but why does the Minister not want to make it a requirement for the regions, as they have to catch up, to make use of the full capacity of private hospitals? It is up to the regions. The minister agrees, but the minister won't do anything about it, or what? Why do you not force the regions to do what the minister thinks is a good idea? That is one question. The second is a follow-up question on that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen asked. When the government initially had a strategy that said it was not important to test, was it due to a wrong strategy, or was it due to the fact that you did not have the test capacity? There I heard the Minister indirectly reply that the strategy was not dependent on the test capacity. So it must also be because you had the wrong strategy at first. It would actually be good to confirm that this is the case and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142219	Health-Elders' Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142221	Thank you for those two questions. I'll try to answer both of them. When we are in the process of increasing the activity of the health service, what some call reopening the health service, it is on the basis of a joint statement by the government, Danish Regions, KL and the Organization of Practice Doctors of 13 April 2020. It is on the basis of a plan for how to do this in a health-care manner, etc., and on which we spent part of our Easter, and it was both party leaders and rapporteurs, myself and my staff. This plan clearly describes the capacity of both the public and private sectors to be used. So it is both that are in the plan that we, together with the Danish Regions and the PLO, agreed to proceed with. To the second question: we have operated on the advice that we have been able to obtain from our health authorities, who have again provided advice on the basis of the things they have received from the WHO and the ECDC, which is the European Anti-Infected Agency. There you have certainly learned better along the way, for example. What you know now about how long you are immune and how many antibodies you can build in your body. We don't have much knowledge there yet. Hopefully, we will know more shortly, because it will be crucial for us to be able to deal better with this situation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142343	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. The question has thus been answered by the Ministers as a matter of urgency. What is happening now is that we move on to the debate. And it will be the case that each rapporteur has four minutes' speaking time. You speak from your place. Excuse me, sir. Torsten Gejl has pushed in, so the Minister for Health and the elderly will not be allowed to be finished yet. Sir. Torsten Gejl is just allowed to make a brief comment to the Minister for Health and the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142414	I am very sorry, President, I was a little late on the button. Thank you so much for letting me go anyway! We talk a lot about the second wave, and the second wave is gradually such a concept as one interprets in really, very many ways. Will the Minister for Health and the Elderly update the Danish Parliament in relation to what we know about the second wave? Are there certain signs around the world that there will be second waves, and how do we possibly prepare for another wave? What does the Minister know about this at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142444	Thank you for that question. If it was a classic flu, we'd know there would be another wave. It may be due to climatic conditions, it may be because Danes are more inside there may be some different things that make us infect each other more when it starts to fall. This isn't a classic flu; that's what we know. And that means that now that we have beaten the infection so far down, it is very much up to us whether there is another wave and by what force it will hit us. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that the work in which the parties of the Folketing are invited to participate observe this very, very carefully and is extremely careful, because if we get a curve that is too steep, then we have the exponential increase, and such an increase is extremely difficult to stop again without shutting the whole society down again to a degree that we have not even experienced yet in Denmark, but as some other countries may have experienced with curfew etc., which we must try all we can to avoid. But that's exactly what we have another wave. And remember that everything we do will only be seen in health care 14 days after 14 days after and that means that it may be too late to discover it, and then we have situations that will be a disastrous second wave in Denmark, and that is what we must avoid, namely that we will have one. We must be good and safe below the capacity ceiling, that is. in the green curve.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142601	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. As I have said, we are now going to the debate and each rapporteur has a four-minute speaking time. I have decided to do so in view of the fact that there must also be time for ministers to be able to do so after the rapporteur's round and that the whole question debate must be closed at 1 p.m. 15.30, I hope that this will be accepted. Well, it's given. The debate is therefore that the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429142633	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to both the government and the other parties of the Folketing for taking an active part in this debate. I think it is important, as I have already said, that we should have an open debate on the challenges of the Corona for Danish society. I would like to say straight away that I think there is reason, as others have also said today, to give a great deal of praise to very, very many people who have been involved in all this work. So, regardless of whether it's officials or whether it's front personnel that have been mentioned, we should thank and say that people in the care of the elderly, people in the hospitals, people who stand at the test centres now, that is to say, a lot of Danes, are making a huge effort and that we are all helping to ensure that everything goes well. We owe them huge thanks and praise for that. We face a very great challenge, primarily health-related, of course, in relation to the disease, but of course also financially in relation to a lot of people who are affected, become unemployed, lose their income, and have uncertainty about how to pay the bills of the next month. This means that there is an expectation that this Parliament is in the work clothes and to such an extent shows the Danes that we are there to do everything we can to help Danish society as gently through this as possible. There's no answer to how to do it. You can't pull an answer in a vending machine. There isn't a conclusion. And that's why you have to get the government, and the Prime Minister must also dare to be open about the challenges and how to solve things. We must ensure that there is transparency in the decision-making framework that we have in place. You have to make sure that when you have to change your things, your decisions, because new things come out, so that it doesn't appear as a zigzag course. This creates uncertainty among a great many Danes. So it's important that you communicate honestly about it. It is important for us parties to also operate with that openness. So of course we are glad that we then got a large part of the material I have here yesterday. And, of course, we're trying to chew our way through it. It's clear. But in relation to the meetings that are being held, I would also like to say that there is a difference between a meeting like this, where we discuss things openly, and then a video conference where we sit in each of our small homes around Danish society, with outcomes on the line and the like and try to discuss things. I am in favour of us doing this to each other, where we can see each other and where we have the opportunity to have a real discussion. When we can then talk about the second phase, i.e. in relation to a reopening, it is important for us in the Danish People's Party that we base it on long-term planning, which is also based on some proper input in relation to the health profession and the socio-economics, and that it is a transparent basis that people check, follow and discuss with us. There has been much discussion of the Norwegian model, where there has been greater openness about things. We should also be inspired by this in Denmark. For us, it is important that we then find a way in which we make clear demands as to when we can then be allowed to open. And if you can live up to those requirements, you are also allowed to open up. And these are demands which include: It is a question of respecting the recommendations from a distance, from a despriting point of view, in relation to all the things that are necessary, in other words, as the health authorities say to us is necessary for us to keep the spread of infection under control. But we are a community based on the rule of law, so you can meet those requirements, you have to be allowed to open up. Then there is no point in having a minister stand up on television one night and say that the minister does not think so, and then you have no idea whether you have been bought or sold. We think of care for the elderly as an area that is particularly important to worry about. There are a lot of elderly, vulnerable and lonely people from whom we are getting more and more emergency crying; relatives of dementes, where the demented believe that the relatives have failed them. Well, it's heartbreaking stories we get into all of our inboxes and when people call. It takes real action. I shall make the following proposals for the adoption of the Left, Conservative, New Civil, Liberal Alliance and ourselves in the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament stresses that it must be clear to citizens and businesses what health precautions are important to follow. The Folketing instructs the government to establish a transparent basis for decision-making with health and socio-economic aspects as a starting point for a long-term plan for a healthly sound reopening. • V 63). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143054	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143058	Thank you so much. And also thank you for calling the question here. I think that is quite good, and I broadly agree with what has been said about how important it is for confidence in everything that needs to be done from now on, that it is taking place in openness, also on the difficult decisions and also on the background to the difficult decisions. I very much agree with that. And I would also like to thank you for your cooperation along the way, not least in relation to our joint beating hearts for high schools and post-schools, where we are not yet in the finish line, but where I would like to sign for the cooperation. Where there may then be a disagreement is that I have noted along the way that the Danish People's Party has advocated that because we have had a corona crisis, we cannot also deal in the same way with the climate crisis. And the problem is that one crisis unfortunately does not make the other go away. We have not had more time to combat climate change because we have been fighting the corona crisis. And that is why I just want to know if the Danish People's Party agrees with us and, incidentally, with the Danish business community that it is actually an opportunity to use it, that we should stimulate the Danish economy, to do so with a green restart, and at least that we do not fail to fulfil our commitment to our 70-percent objective, which is not even six months old.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143213	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143214	Oh, my God. A lot has happened in six months. And we know very well, and it is also the lesson after the financial crisis in 2008, that when there is a crisis that really costs Danish society massively and where we lose wealth in Denmark, then there is a time when you have to have the courage to discuss with each other too, how to get the best out of the subsequent • what are the decisions that are being made? And I know there are some people who think that when we're just on the other side of it, it's like it was before... there's money for the same things. But it's not a given thing. That is why we need to be able to question some of the ambitions we have had in the past. When it comes to the climate, I fully agree that you can actively think about climate initiatives in the things you do, and that can be very sensible and of course it can. However, in view of the fact that we have a certain target figure that has been set, I think we need to recognise that we need to look at how the economy is going in the coming years and what is then possible. It may well be that this objective is being achieved, I would have said, but unfortunately in the sad way that all activity almost shuts down for such a long time that it achieves its objectives, but by the fact that Danish society is losing its economic activity. That's nothing to hope for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143330	Thank you. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143333	I understand why, sir. Morten Østergaard just takes this up, because I also find that DF may be using the corona crisis a little to try to reduce the CO2 target. In any case, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt here on the second day in the Chamber that the emissions should be reduced to 60%. And there I just want to remind the DF that when we are done with the corona crisis, we are turning to another crisis that is also deeply, deeply serious, and it would be untimely to start taking advantage of the corona crisis to say that we must reduce the CO2 target, compared to the next crisis that awaits us, which is of course a crisis in which, to that extent, we are past the point of no return now it is damage control. So I just want to say: do not exploit the corona crisis to reduce the CO2 target by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143428	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143429	What is untimely, then, maybe we can have different views about. I think it is timely care to say that, of course, there are some things that will change if a country loses a lot of economic activity. And it may well be that some people are living in such a world where you can stand completely outside it and that, even if companies shut down, even though there are currently unemployed, I mentioned SAS, which announced the firing of almost half of their employees yesterday, saying: it is not something that is going on in my world, and therefore everything is going on just as it was. But it doesn't. And it's really funny that I have to say it, but Denmark is part of a big world, and it's amazing that just when it comes to climate, it's as if Denmark is all for itself and has to keep some ambitions that other countries may have, because we don't know that will change the climate, and they don't even have the ambitions Denmark has had until before the corona crisis. So taking the discussion seems to me to be an open thing and a given thing and expressing due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143538	Thank you. And there is only one brief comment for each rapporteur. Now it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143544	I am glad that we have been a little bit in the same boat as the Danish People's Party, both in relation to the struggle for afterschools and high schools, as the Radical Left has been, but in fact also in relation to ensuring that the elderly have been able to receive visits from their relatives. There are a lot of older people out there who feel isolated and deeply worried when they cannot get visits from their relatives. This must, of course, be done at appropriate distance, with protective equipment and everything. So that's where I really appreciate the good cooperation. I guess I'll be a little surprised... a little bit like sir. Morten Østergaard around here with the green one. The way Denmark is going to get through the crisis is precisely through the green agenda. After all, it is thought-provoking that the Danish business community has not dropped the 70-percent target. If you look at what the world is going to demand, then Danish exports are also not very sensitive to what is happening right now. Of course there are some industries that are, but on the whole we are not. And that is one of the reasons why we export pharmaceutical products and the world still needs them and we export agricultural products on a large scale, and the world also needs them. But we are also exporting green technology, and that is one of the things they will need on the other side of the crisis. So if we do not have the ambition of 70%, do we not really run the risk that it will go wrong for the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143655	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143657	No, I don't think so. The 70%. is, after all, a very, very ambitious target. I think everyone agrees on that. And I even think that the Social Democrats went to the polls one year ago on an objective of 60%. This is fun to hear now, because if you say that it may well be that the corona crisis does, when we have to think it all through like that and find out what is the money for that 60%. Perhaps a slightly more realistic target figure is to have for 2030 than 70%, then there are some in this Chamber who will think: what on earth is going on, that is completely crazy? Well, that's what Social Democracy went to the polls a year ago. It's not that bad. That is also a very ambitious figure. I just want to remind everyone of that in here. But it's just a recognition of that, and I think it's gonna hit everyone at some point, whether it is because you want to spend more money from the Treasury Department's treasury in the financial negotiations in the autumn... or whatever it is... there's gonna come a day after this, where you can somehow see more what this is gonna hit the Danish economy with. We just saw that after the financial crisis, where I myself had the opportunity to work on these things. It wasn't such an easy thing to get the ends to meet, but it has to be done. Because what has made us have had freedom of action today during the Corona crisis is that we have had an economy that was also mentioned earlier by the Prime Minister, so we have been able to deal with it because we have had a responsible economic course in the past. And we have to get back to that after the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143820	The previous proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are no comments, and the next rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429143830	Thank you. It is hardly surprising that I will, of course, put a great deal into the flow of messages that have come from the ministers; nobody is staggering about that. However, I also think I should like to take advantage of the fact that it is now the rapporteur's round and my party has the floor. I hope that's okay with all of you. Because I would also like to comment on this discussion and how the corona epidemic interferes with our everyday life and our social life. There are many who lose their jobs, have to go down in wages or otherwise suffer losses. There are a lot of people who suffer great human deprivation... more have already been mentioned in the discussion here. I can say just like Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that there are many messages from relatives to the elderly and others who experience serious deprivation. And, of course, they are particularly experiencing already vulnerable groups when we have to shut down society, as we have done. We also demonstrate in a number of areas that we are a strong society and that we can make decisions together politically and in cooperation with a large number of actors. There have been other countries where there has been a somewhat different political paralysis before decisions could be reached. This has not been the case in Denmark. We have also had an economic resilience to make large aid packages. And then the citizens are showing a social spirit, a unity and a solidarity which is strong to see and feel, I think, and which has been absolutely crucial for us to have succeeded so far in keeping the infection down. These have been quite intrusive things, it has to be said, but I also have a strong support and understanding for the actions that the government and the Danish Parliament have had to take together. Hopefully, we will also be able to demonstrate in the near future the capacity for cooperation and broad agreements on the difficult issues we face. I think people expect that from us, and I think it has dressed the Folketing to be able to stand so strongly together to make these urgent legislations, aid packages, etc. The government and the authorities' efforts have been aimed at ensuring that we stay on the so-called green curve, that is to say that we keep the spread of infection down so that our health services can keep up with it. And I think, when there are some who are now drawing it out, that there were different scenarios, and ask why one was so careful that it is worth saying: Well there was good reason to be, and so it is still difficult now to go forward to lie down on the extreme marginal of where it is possible to lie down. We need to proceed cautiously in order not to put the things we have achieved at risk. At the same time, however, we want to take care of the economy as well as possible, and nobody has any particular pleasure in shutting down society, at least not us, even though some people have had the idea in the debate that this was the case with the Social Democracy and the Government. Of course, this is not the case, but we must open as much as possible, taking into account the health considerations to be taken into account and the discussions continue, I understand, tonight and the next few days. When it is possible to open up so much, it is because there has been a great deal of discipline, and I hope that there will still be a social mind and a discipline on the part of the citizens in keeping their distance and following the guidelines. And the more you do it, the better will be our opportunity to open up more politically for the benefit of businesses, jobs, schools, institutions and everything else that we want to get started with as much activity as possible. There are a lot of questions coming up locally, and I also believe that we must accept that there are no answers to everything from day one, but along the way you will find them, and we must have a little patience with that. We are in the process of the first phase of reopening and, as you know, these discussions are under way. We are also happy to listen to external independent experts in addition to the advice and decision-making bases that come from health authorities and ministries. And then, when we are through this first phase, which is all about saving jobs and businesses, we hope that we can also reduce climate ambitions with the economic recovery that has to take place afterwards. In this context, I should like to conclude by putting forward on behalf of S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls for broad cooperation to get Denmark through the pandemic, so that health care can keep up with, and so that the socioeconomic and welfare community gets through in the best possible way. This includes, among other things: a green economic recovery. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to include open, independent advice that links economics and health in its work on reopening. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144309	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144317	Thanks to Jesper Petersen. And it was quite appropriate to speak as the Social Democrat rapporteur, of course he should. I just have one question for the last part of the proposal for adoption, just to try to understand it. It shows that there must be open, impartial advice, and I also believe that the Prime Minister mentioned this in relation to the future process. - Sir... Jesper Petersen, so that we can know what that means in practice, tell us what the difference is between what is then going to happen with the proposal for adoption, in relation to the way it has been handled so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144356	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is right about the fact that there has also been the involvement of independent advice over the last few years, and that the wise men and others have been listened to most recently, and we can continue to do so. It is a wish that is now agreed among the parties that are behind this proposal for adoption, but how it should be put into practice is not something we need to decide for ourselves; it is something that can be discussed with all the parties in the Folketing and that is part of the negotiations on reopening. So how to do it, who you want to involve, how transparency can happen, how much this can happen, and how much the parties get advice. In other words, it is an indication of wanting to involve external independent advice in a more systematic way and also of allowing it to be openly available so that citizens can know about it as part of the debate on what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144455	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144459	Thank you. As I understand the government's strategy for reopening, it is very much about opening up those places with a small risk of infection, but with great economic importance, and that is good logic. But should we not think more and more quickly about starting just as quietly to open places with a small risk of infection and with less economic importance? I imagine that many of the places that may be where people get to know each other or where people can relive some social relationships to a greater extent. Of course, there must be proper safeguards. After all, many people are getting caught up in sitting at home and watching, so are we not at risk of the consequences of children, young and old being isolated, both economically, healthly and mentally, becoming worse than the consequences of the corona? Then we should not start, for example. to open those places with low risk of infection, even if they are of little economic importance, but perhaps of great social importance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144600	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144602	Well, I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech, namely that, in addition to the financial losses, there is also great human deprivation. Some may be very direct in relation to patients or older people, but they are also in relation to children and young people's leisure time, i.e. whether you get an end to your primary school time that you want, and other things. These are elements which must be included in the discussions which Mr. Torsten Gejl has with the government now, about what is possible to open in the next phase. At the beginning and in the first stage, we have put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that as many jobs as possible could be opened up and that as many companies as possible could regain some turnover and thus secure people's jobs. But I am quite clear that there are also places where there is less risk of infection and where there are more human and social considerations involved, and I am sure they will also be taken into account in the discussions that are taking place. Both are a consequence which, of course, must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144710	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144712	Thank you. It is true that it will then be the fourth social democrat to whom questions can be put, but nevertheless Mr. Jesper Petersen special conditions when it comes to the border country, and it is somehow the terrible irony of fate that just as we were to celebrate reunification, the borders have been closed to a degree that we have not seen in many years. And I'm sure that sir... Jesper Petersen also gets many inquiries from some of the Danish-German couples who cannot take up in their summer house because they live in Germany • it would probably not affect the infection violently, but it is still not a recognised purpose • or unmarried Danish-German couples, girlfriends who cannot visit each other, or as today a number of mayors who have asked for a clear answer in relation to that part of the business, who really need to be able to find out how we should deal with tourism. So my question to the Social Democratic Party is: should we expand the circle of worthy purposes? do we think so then more of those who have Danish-German or Danish-Swedish relations or anything else can be allowed to visit each other and their possessions? And do we not need to phase out these border conditions for the benefit of business, among other things. In South Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144828	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144829	Sir. Morten Østergaard has looked quite right with regard to my geographical origin, and that is one of the things I am sorry about being canceled in these weeks, i.e. the huge number of markings that had to do with reunification, and all the important learning and history that is there. But here too, we must proceed in line with the responsibility that we need to demonstrate. There was a lot of concern about whether closing the border was the right thing to do at all, but it has to be said that other countries soon found out that it was probably a good idea that, when we tried to keep track of the spread of infection at home, we should not just let tourism and other things go across the border unhindered, but kept on allowing it for transport and workers. Last week, we were able to open a little more, and I think that is welcome. And Mr. Morten Østergaard is probably also asking the question, because he knows that I really wish you could open up more, and I think that you should do so as soon as possible. And I guess we didn't have a girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend or girlfriend................... the other day a deeply in love 69-year-old man on the phone who had FaceTime conversations every night and missed being
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144947	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429144950	Thank you. I understand very well that when it is a government, one has to take account of the support parties, one has to balance and something like that, but now I am talking to the Social Democrats. I would really like to hear some reflections on the proposal that Enhedslisten made here the other day. It must be said that the Social Democratic Party has proud traditions in the Danish trade union movement. What does the Social Democrats really say about the desire so strong that there are special groups now to be designated for special wage increases? I know that there are some other parties here that are really starting to push, and shop stewards and others in the trade union movement. It's not necessarily a wish position, but that's how it is. - Sir... Jesper Petersen says that the Social Democrat simply says: We are pouring that down the board completely, forget it, the box is not open, there is not a pick the winners in any negotiations here in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145052	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145053	I would probably not just choose the words about the point that there are some people doing a very important job, which many recognise, and that it is not entirely reflected in how their salary is compared to that of so many others. I think that we are looking at many areas in these days, namely that we become very aware of many functions that we very much appreciate, but which are not those that experience the highest salaries on a daily basis. You can draw that up. However, we are also employers as a state or public body, and that is why we, as a minister or political rapporteur, do not set out any amounts in advance which should be given for wage increases or which are set aside for specific negotiations. There you are also an employer and part of the Danish model, which also works in the public labour market, and there you have to negotiate as an employer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145155	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145157	Thank you. After all, the Minister of Health confirmed that it was the government's view that we had to use all the capacity we had in the health system to get rid of this hump, both the public and the private health system. Then I wonder why it has not been set as a requirement for the regions and I would ask whether the Social Democratic Party will make it a requirement that they spend 100 per cent. of the capacity in the private hospitals. For as it is now, patients' rights have been suspended, and this means both that the guarantee of treatment has been revoked and that the regions are not forced to refer people to private hospitals. And that means that people really now go around the grace of the regions and can be sick for longer than is necessary. So what is the reason why the Social Democratic Party will not make it a requirement for the regions so that we can have this hump over as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145253	Thank you. In other words, it is the regions that are responsible here, and I also see that some of them are already using a capacity, and to the extent that we are then going to catch up with the humps that are there, I have no doubt that more will do so. But it's not up to the state to decide. When patients' rights can be re-emerged, there will be increased pressure on local public capacity too, and then each region will have to decide on how to meet their requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145326	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145335	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to my two co-authors in the debate. Denmark is in the middle of two crises, a health crisis and an economic crisis, and Denmark needs a long-term plan not only to get us through, but also to get us going well. The closure was handled effectively, it was dealt with resolutely, the Folketing gave the government room to rule and to respond quickly. That's the way it's supposed to be in a crisis. Now the decommissioning has become a reopening and the first phase of reopening should be controlled. It's not. Coincidence seems to be the advice. Things are opening up a little bit, guidelines are being withdrawn and changed politically, companies must guess the mood of the Minister of Industry if they do not have to be scolded to open otherwise legally. Although I understood from the Prime Minister's answer to my question on this a moment ago that she would certainly not relate to that because there are major problems in the world, this is something that matters to those people who have to go to work or do something as trivial as buying furniture or seeing giraffes. If it is irresponsible for Ikea or zoos to open up, then we must justify it, and then we must ban it. After all, we are still living in a community of law, and it seems that the government is losing its grip on this. We are in the midst of a deep and hard economic crisis. Thousands of Danes have been given a bill of fire, hundreds of thousands have been sent home on compensation for wages, and there are companies struggling to avoid bankruptcies. Therefore, the Danish Parliament has agreed to help packages, but the companies say that the applications are stranded and that the aid is not available. According to SMEs Denmark is only 2%. of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, which have been compensated for fixed costs 2%. It's the first one the day after tomorrow, and I want this help out, and I want it out now. The Prime Minister says that we will not return to the Denmark we knew before corona. I do not share that view. It is the Left's aim that we should do everything we can to return to the everyday life and the country we knew before, as quickly as it is safe for health, with visits to grandparents, with more jobs, with zeal and with a focus on the green transition. It will take time and that is why a long-term plan is needed. We need to know what's going on, we need to have a perspective. That is what can make the difference between maintaining hope, maintaining courage and breaking the neck or persevering the workplace. I have said this before, but I will repeat it: the Left will follow five principles. Firstly, we must stand on a health professional basis, and this also means that there must be clarity as to what strategy Denmark actually follows in order to keep the disease in check. Secondly, we have to go for the biggest socio-economic gain when we open up, so that we start where we can get the most of the wheels, where there are the most jobs and where it costs as little on health as possible. Thirdly, we want a clear road map, including for those who are waiting, and perhaps especially for them. Those who cannot open now must have a plan for what happens to them in the time leading to them being able to open. Fourthly, we want full openness and a knowledge-based basis for decisions. This will strengthen the confidence that we are doing the right thing. Finally, fifthly, the bill must be paid. The decisions that have been taken and which need to be taken now leave a very considerable bill. I want that bill picked up. Everything else is reckless. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145743	Thank you. I must point out that time is running very fast for us, and we must be ready by 1 p.m. 15.30. So I do not want to close short remarks, but try to choose carefully, and not least keep to the speaking time. But there is a brief comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145802	It was because I read the chronicle that several of the party leaders who are here today had in Berlingske the other day also Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen had his name under the name and some of what is included in the proposal for adoption, which has now come from a majority of the parties today, underlines the importance of a green recovery. There I just noticed that it was not a subject or consideration that was part of that chronicle. That is why I should like to ask Mr Seligman a further question. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen's position on this, i.e. whether we stand firm on climate ambitions and to what extent we believe that they should be considered in conjunction with economic policy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145846	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145847	We are firmly committed to that. That is also why I have proposed to the government, in the strings of dazzling proposals I have made, that the construction of the three offshore wind farms we have already adopted should be set in motion and that the amount of money in the Landsbygningsfonden should be taken into account and the improvements in the climate that can be done here should be speeded up. So, yes, we certainly stand by that. If you can conclude by reading a chronicle that what is not mentioned in it is not important, then I think you misunderstand the subject. In other words, we are not talking about education, nor are we talking about defence, nor are we talking about research, and I think that is important too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145921	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429145923	I would also like to start by thanking you for the cooperation on many things during this period, not least on the business packages and the pressure for something to happen in the cultural and media field, which would hardly have come if we had not cooperated well, and also that we now have open and impartial advice for the next phases. My question is about another thing, and that is the lead we have been pursuing along the way, in ensuring that tools came to the government, but that they did not go too far in terms of freedoms. Now that we are about to embark on a test strategy which is also based on apps and where people can be traced, I would just like to ask for a promise from the Left that we also insist there that the citizens are not there for the sake of the state and that due regard should therefore be paid to privacy, even when we ask them to download apps so that we can follow the spread of the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150007	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150008	I can assure you, sir. Morten Østergaard and the rest of Tinget and Denmark in general that we share that concern. And we have shared that concern all the way along the way in this, and I think that is true in a broad sense. That is also why we have put the brakes on some of the measures that came from the government, in which we also insisted that a court order should continue before entering people's homes. In other words, we are aware that these are extreme means being used now, and this requires that we have a very, very close attention to what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150043	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150045	In the past, the Left has been out in several parts of the papers saying that it is absolutely essential that the treatment guarantee should enter into force as soon as possible and that people can receive treatment, among other things. in private hospitals. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, if it does not concern him and the Left, when we can now see that we lack anesthesia nurses in public, and we may risk that if we open up in private, they will disappear in relation to the public and then we will not be able to treat corona patients in public. So, isn't that balancing between the private and the public sector a genuine concern, and we should therefore be a little more careful when it comes to expanding the capacity of private hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150128	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150129	There were a lot of ifs in this. I mean, in case there's A, B, C and D, you're not worried that... I'm genuinely worried that you've shut down the private hospitals without there seems to be any reason for it. I am really worried that Danes who carry diseases that are not just ill, which are not just minor things, cannot be treated because we have ignored so much of the treatment capacity for corona. I am also deeply concerned, like Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, that we do not have the capacity to treat corona. We must ensure that we do, but since developments are as they are, we also owe it to the Danes to not just keep people waiting because we have an ideological crusade against private hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150216	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150221	Thank you for that, and thank you once again to the authors for giving us the opportunity to have this debate. Hundreds of people are currently in hospital with covid-19. Many of them over 50, I think it is currently in intensive care, and a large part of them are helped to breathe, and I think it is also appropriate to send thoughts both to them and to their relatives, who, while discussing that we are less severely affected than the rest of the world, are in a deeply worrying situation where we know that some will get well, but that of course more will get sick. And also a thank you to the staff who make a huge difference to those who hopefully can make the total losses for Denmark as few as possible measured in human lives. That must be the goal. But the strongest weapon that we have had in it is the behaviour of the Danes, and the confidence that they have had, and which is well known and long-standing, that when the authorities call for something, we can rely on it, and that is what we understand from the Viologists and the experts is the strongest weapon we have. That is why, in reality, I believe that the most important task here in the context of reopening is to take care of that trust and to ensure that there is openness and transparency about the reflections that will allow us to continue to have confidence in it. Because we can see from all the analyses that, if trust disappears and people start to make their own rules, there is a risk that everything will go away. That is why we need a long-term plan for the reopening of Denmark, where we can see what we are running for, namely that health care does not come under pressure that cannot be dealt with, a test strategy which is now taking shape and to which we can relate, and which raises no more questions than it answers, and then, of course, a plan that is appropriate to raise hopes with people that, if things do not turn out this time, and if things develop positively, they will be the next time, whether it is in cultural life, business, education or where it is. That is where I think it is so crucial that this discussion, however difficult it may be and how difficult it may be, can be carried out in a transparent manner, and that is why I am pleased that both proposals for adoption actually lay down the principle of further work, that we must have open and independent advice, as has been seen in other countries, where it is combined to take account of the spread of infection with considerations about the economy, mental health and, of course, this issue of the behaviour of the Danes, and how we affect it. I also think it is important that, in the midst of all the seriousness, we should be careful not to talk down pessimism and optimism. I mean, if people lose faith in the future, it's gonna be really, really hard, and then the crisis gets deeper than it needed to be. All of us who had something to say when we were fighting the financial crisis remember that the biggest enemy we were really up against in trying to free ourselves from the financial crisis was that both companies and citizens were so nervous that they did not dare to invest in anything. Then we could do enough from in here, but it just helped a little. There I am convinced that a green recovery plan will help to show that we are planning for the future, that we are investing in a future that is better for Denmark and that is therefore suited to awakening the hope that it is not only about keeping us alive that is important enough, but that it is also about what kind of a way we should live together in the long term in a greener and freer and stronger Denmark. That is why my appeal to cooperation on the broad front in the Folketing, which we have shown we could do during the crisis, and that it can continue, including in the recovery, to be a broad cooperation in Europe, where I must be honest and say that I do not think that the Danish Government is offensive enough in the desire to talk about export challenges, but then we must also get the markets going in Europe and be part of the group of countries that will support that it is going to happen and an appeal and a hope that through our behaviour here we can get the Danes to do theirs. And I think we can only do that with openness and transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150635	Thank you. There are two who have wanted short remarks, but for the sake of time I have to close short remarks from now on and cut speaking time down to three minutes, unfortunately. There is an extra half an hour available for this urgent question, and we have to start Question Time at 1 p.m. 15.30. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150658	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. I fully agree with Mr. Morten Østergaard in that it is important that we speak up optimism and that it is important that we speak up hope. That is also the basis on which I have been calling for a plan for more than a month now, so that there is a perspective and so that there is a light at the end of the tunnel, and I sense that this is an ambition that we share a plan that links health and the economy. And I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Morten Østergaard also shares my surprise that the Prime Minister has so far said that the two things cannot be put together in a meaningful way and set up a plan in connection with the reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150733	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150735	Well, we have both taken part in the debate, and it is a balance that is being struck. Well, you have to see things in context. If we chose to introduce a total state of emergency, as has been seen in some parts of the world, we could probably have even lower figures for spread of infection and such things. So in my world it makes no sense. Of course you have to weigh it up. That is why I am also pleased with this proposal for adoption today, which has at least a majority behind it so far, and which requires the government to include open independent advice that links the economy and health in the future. I think that is a positive result of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150819	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429150825	Wednesday, March 11th will be a day I'll never forget. I think that is really the case for a great many Danes. That was the day when the Prime Minister announced that what Denmark we know would shut down. And in fact, I was a little relieved. The pictures from Italy were unbearable with stories of doctors who had to prioritize older patients to prioritize the younger ones; doctors and nurses who broke down in tears because they felt they were standing at the front without the possibility of saving the many wounded. It must have been unbearable to be in that situation. At the same time, we knew that Denmark had and has significantly fewer intensive places than Italy. It was a frightening scenario, and in a few days we all learned a new word in Denmark, namely protective equipment. Because there were too few of them. There was a lack of test capacity, and a majority in the Danish Parliament had chosen to sell the Danish vaccine production despite warnings from the Danish Health Authority, which estimated that it would put Denmark at a disadvantage at a pandemic that we are currently experiencing. In that light, with few beds, lack of test equipment and basic protective equipment, I have no doubt that we did it right when we shut Denmark down. We priority human lives, we prioritized saving our health care from collapse. It was brave; it was right. Several countries followed for the same reasons, some unfortunately too late. We saw the death toll exploded in New York, where tents had to be erected to store the many bodies. And yes, each and every one of them, a mother, a brother, a friend, was unfortunately often a person who spent his last time in a hospital bed with staff who had protective equipment on almost like space suits, and not always with the nearest people around him. It was unbearable. It's a scary time we've been through, and we don't know if we're through it or if the disease flares up again in a minute. Therefore, it is SF's attitude that we should proceed cautiously step by step, cautiously and that we should rather go a little too slowly than a little too quickly. Fortunately, we have done so together. Denmark and the Danes and the Folketing have been amazing. Nurses, sosu assistants, sosu helpers, doctors and porters who went to work, who worked overtime and who stepped in, although they did not know whether it was with life as an effort; the cleaning staff, shop workers, all the employees of the production that went on without kneading; all the public and private employees who continued, even though the morning meeting was now held via Skype or Zoom. The kids are the ones we often yell at. They have paused their lives indefinitely, have waved goodbye to friends at the graduation school maybe forever and miss out on a magical time with friends, the long bright summer evenings where you should study for the exam. Many have paid a high price, and over 50,000 have lost their jobs. There's a lot we need to do. It is important for the SF that we now lift the crisis bill together; that we do this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151144	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151148	Thank you. All of a sudden, this is going to be a very speedy debate. Denmark is hit by a crisis. It's killing people. It's whole health systems at stake, all over the world. These are jobs. They're private finances. This is the life's work of business owners. It's really serious. It is a contagious disease that we face, which for many of us can be a severe flu, but for many it can be with life as an effort. And it can be catastrophic for our health care. But in Denmark we haven't talked about that several times We have not sent the military with bodies, as they have done in Italy, nor rejected all over 60 or built mass graves, as they have done in New York. We could have done that, but we've been lucky and we've been quick and we've been good. In fact, it has been very little of what we have done in here that has had the effect. It has been all those who have done something extra because they could see the seriousness. So it was the small shopkeeper who closed the store, even if you didn't have to, and even if it wasn't in any law and there was no command; all those who didn't go to parties, even before there was a ban on assembly, and all sorts of other things. All those who walked an extra mile like that because we all could see that it was crazy, and we all had to do something. In fact, I believe that the decisions of the politicians have been a small part of that. There have been important signals, but the greatest effect has been the community we have in this small country and people's ability to put aside their own needs for the sake of the community. I think that is very good and we should keep it. Some of the things that I've heard people praise us the most for there's been a lot of hernia and all sorts of things, and there's more hernia coming from all of us, because it's a shame for all of us... it's been our ability when it really was the case to stand together. Everything's fucking gone. Everything that all those outside Christiansborg's thick walls hate us most of all disappeared. We made relief packages, we were united in recommendations. You couldn't tell the difference between our Facebooks, because we all agreed that this was the case, and now we were united. It's like what else was so nice and good in this thing has gone a little bit over the past few weeks. It is not because there must not be political disagreements, but suddenly I also think that we are discussing the process very much. I mean, who got involved too little, and who got involved too much? And if you get more involved, does it go too slow? There are a lot of process discussions. I just think that if we are to get through the difficult part of reopening, which is perhaps even more difficult in reality, then we must be able to take political disagreements as they are, but also stick to the factual arguments and political disagreements. It also means to me to see that we are about to tighten up a little bit, friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151509	Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151515	Thank you. On 11 March, large parts of Denmark closed. On 20 March, Dansk Industri estimates that only export companies will close down 50,000 jobs, that is to say on 20 March. On 6 April, the Economic Council will draw up two scenarios for the Danish economy. An optimistic scenario, as it was called, where there is a deficit of 61⁄2%. of bnp. And the pessimistic with 9%. Just as violent and fast corona has infected the whole world with disease, just as quickly our economy has been infected. The borders are closed. There is a lack of tourist revenue. We're all gonna stop going to the cafe and the restaurant, because we can't. This means, of course, that subcontractors are affected. This means that those who work there will be hit. We do not go shopping as before in different stores; some of them, because we hold back, others because they are not allowed to open. On the whole, of course, this is deeply problematic. It is now all private companies and jobs that are being affected. That's the way it is with this crisis. Although, of course, public employees fill their important job functions, you have the private job it is not given. Business is Denmark's oxygen bottle. Too many mothers and fathers come home with the sad message that they've been fired. After all, there is a difference between being in that throes, but after all good situation to be sent home to work instead of being sent home because you are fired. We are pressured in Denmark on our economy. I think we've barely seen the beginning. We have seen this week that SAS must dismiss 1,700 people in Denmark. That's the tip of the iceberg, I'm afraid. We can make aid packages, and it is good that we have done so, but we are not going to save everyone. No company can live without income. And then we must do what we can to make the aid packages as flexible as possible. The Tripartite Agreement is good. There could have been more flexibility, I'll be sorry there isn't. And then we have to get the money to the companies. I am glad that a fever rescue is being carried out today because the applications have not been dealt with by the companies and so money can be paid out now so that you can pay wages so that you do not break your neck because you have not received the money you would expect and which you have been entitled to through what we have done in here. If Denmark is to return, we must lighten the burden on companies so that they can again afford to hire those they have fired. Money out to the Danes so that we can get Denmark back on track when we get further forward. It is therefore important that we have guidelines in this country, i.e. that those companies that work hard to comply with all the guidelines should not be rude and criticised because it does not suit a minister that they remain open. It is simply not okay, even if it is a simple situation and may be a small situation in the big picture it is not okay. Finally, I believe that we must be honest and say to the Danes that the situation will have consequences for our society in the years to come. There will be no more welfare, so-called welfare, if you measure welfare in how much money you spend. We cannot give the public the impression that everything is going to be the same. The export markets are freezing. We're a small open economy. It is a responsibility that we must shoulder together, and I am sure we will. It's not polemics and tricks to disagree. It is an expression of democracy and popular rule, and I would insist that we should have the right to do so in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151846	Thank you. Time's up. I'm sorry I have to be tough on time. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429151853	Thank you. My message in this Chamber must be clear: there is a need for more political action and more political action now. We were quick to shut down society, but now we also have a business community out there, and we have some citizens out there who demand and demand political action that we should have stimulated the Danish economy. We need to open up again. This is a demand crisis that we are facing. There is a need for ordinary Danes to get more money between their hands so that they can spend the money on restaurants, hotels, holiday countries and all the other things when we open up. New Civic players like to play the field. We have plenty of suggestions for that. I would like to focus on three of them today. It's frozen holiday money. We need to solve that. The money must go out and work with the citizens. It's the citizens' money. Here we can do it in a way that gives the money back to the citizens for consumption and thus for increased employment. We are creating more liquidity in companies because we are shifting their compulsory payments. And that is largely national economic neutral because it can be done by issuing short-term government bonds that are close to zero interest rates. There is only one thing to say: get started, give the citizens their money back. In addition, I would like to focus on the electricity tax. Denmark, together with Germany, has the highest electricity prices Europe. It is tragic when we actually produce electricity quite cheaply, but it is due to massive and excessively high taxes that we have put on in here by the Folketing. Of course, we need to get rid of that. It's something that's gonna help. That is what we call a political cheek egg, because it will both improve competitiveness and thus employment, and it will give people more money between their hands and, above all, the removal of this electricity tax will mean something to people who have low incomes. Finally, it will also encourage citizens to move towards electricity and away from fossil fuels, for example. in the field of transport. The last point I would like to focus on is the taxation of beer, wine and spirits. We need to remove these charges, and right now there is a golden moment and an open window to do so, because right now people are not driving across the border. This means that they have changed their shopping patterns. It also has three obvious advantages. It provides more money between the hands of citizens for increased consumption. It gives a very necessary helping hand to the restaurants and other things that need to open up so that they can avoid bankruptcies. And it also creates reduced cross-border trade and increased trade in the retail shops of Southern Denmark. Another good political cheek egg that can benefit everyone. So the call from this is for action to be taken and for action to be taken to create more growth in Denmark. It is time for us not to lag behind the other countries, as we otherwise have a tradition of. This time we have to take the lead and make the decisions that are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152211	Then speaking time has passed and, in order to have time for the last rapporteurs, it is the next rapporteur who is from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152225	Well, I fully acknowledge that. But then may I not just request...[Sound Outfall]. I can tell you that there hasn't been time for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152229	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152233	Thank you. The Corona crisis must not turn into a Community crisis. Our community is threatened when we cannot visit our parents and grandparents at nursing homes, when the children cannot get to school properly and meet their comrades, when we cannot gather for weddings and birthdays, and when we cannot cultivate our passions in association life. It is our strong and voluntary communities that give our lives meaning and nourishment, and therefore it is also incredibly hard for us people when we cannot grow together and when we cannot interact with each other, as we are created for. That is why I actually understand the people who need to meet and gather outside. I understand those who would like to go to Ikea or those who would like to go out and play some football or visit their parents in a nursing home. I would actually like to give a warning to the authorities and to the government there. If it is not possible for people to cultivate human communities legally, yes, then they will see each other in a different way and rebel against the bans. If the kids aren't allowed to meet and play football at the football club, then they just play at home on the villa road instead. If the kids can't meet at a bar, they'll organize a private party. And every time the authorities close a place where the community has the opportunity to unfold, you get to push the Danes even closer together in the few places where you still have to meet. And every time you ban or limit the possibility of associating with one another, you run the risk of pushing people to do something even more risky. It must therefore be a fundamental task for us politically to ensure that people can soon interact, cultivate communities, but in a way in which we have reduced the risk of infection. So no, our job is not to keep nursing homes cut off from the outside world, so the elderly die of loneliness. The task is to ensure that you can visit your relatives, your families, without harming your health. We must keep the shops open, but with plenty of hand alcohol and distance requirements and disposable gloves. The same applies to restaurants and association. We should not shut down the communities. For this reason, I personally have no pleasure at all in the prohibitions that limit our opportunities to interact with each other. On the contrary, I see it as our task to make room for the communities that carry us in the family, in the workplace, in school and in the associations. That is our task. There is a prerequisite that we have confidence in the Danes and that we trust that most Danes understand clear and clear directions and guidelines and that they will follow them to the best of their ability. We should not make rigid rules for everyone because of few stumbled vessels, but we must treat the Danes as adults, as the Danes are most. If we do not have that confidence in the Danes, then it will be far too long before we can reopen Denmark and then the Corona crisis will become a Community crisis. But it is through the community, the opportunity to cultivate the communities and trust in the Danes that we must move forward together with reopening plans, test strategy and lack of zigzag course. But it starts and ends with confidence in the Danes, so that we can preserve the Danish communities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152546	Thank you. Then it is the Alternative's rapporteur, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152550	Thank you to the chairman for a tight governance. I'll see if I can live up to that. In the alternative, we welcome the government's more offensive testing strategy. We admit that the government's course may have been varied, but we will never ever call it groping. In a situation like this, one has to do one's external analysis day by day and adjust one's strategy on the basis of the signals one gets from outside the world. I think that is actually responsible. Internationally, we are fine, thanks also to the other parties of the Folketing, where we have made a lot of decisions at digital meetings, which in fact have greatly mitigated this crisis. In the alternative, we have a few priorities. We would like to see those places with low risk and low economic importance reopened more quickly. It is the case that, of course, we start by opening up those places with low risk of infection and high economic importance, but those places with low economic importance are often those which have a high social significance. We are afraid of the consequences of people being isolated in the long run, especially if there is another wave and we have to go through a long period of isolation again. So there are many people with social challenges who want to have really, really difficult things to do, so perhaps you could keep those places with low risk of infection and low economic significance open, because they have a high social value. Finally, I would like to say that we are extremely aware of the start-ups, of the entrepreneurs. We are simply afraid that half a generation of starters and entrepreneurs will be put down. It's people who have spent their fortunes. It's people who have saved up and spent their savings. They are fighting for the profits of the first years, and they are the food chain for Danish business, because they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are developing, they are the ones who are creating the know-how that we in Denmark also make a great deal of living from. So I was pleased to hear the government's positive response to see if we might be able to create some recovery strategies that will enable those who are put down completely and therefore do not benefit from support to get started again so that we do not lose the learning and knowledge and know-how they provide to our society and the food chain they are for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152754	Thank you. And then we're almost done on time, thanks for that. Of course, it is always a pity when we have to limit speaking time from up here, but if you want to have longer speaking time, you have to ask a general question and not an urgent question. That is how the guidelines are. The last to speak is the Minister for Finance to round off the debate on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429152820	Thank you. When it is I who rounds it is because the Prime Minister, because of acute illness in the immediate family, has no opportunity to be present in the Chamber. I'm sure everyone understands that, and together we send our warm thoughts to the Prime Minister and her family. It is clear that the whole corona situation is deeply serious. This applies to health as well as to our economy and to all other leaders in Danish society. The debate here today reflects the fact that we have a living democracy where, of course, there is room for different positions and where critical questions can also be asked to a government, but also that there is a strong community to get Denmark best through the crisis we face. This is also the whole reason why these days, under the Prime Minister's leadership, we are discussing and negotiating how to make the next openings of Danish society. It is clear that the advice that has come here today is some that the government will take into account. I also hear that there is a very constructive mood for the next step. None of us wants anything to be shut down longer than is absolutely necessary, but nobody should want us to open up too much and too soon, so that suddenly all the decisions that have been taken and all the deprivations that have been made have been in vain. That's why it's a delicate balance that needs to be found. In conclusion, I would just like to add my voice to what several speakers have said here today, and also to send a huge thank you from the government to those people who make a difference every day. This applies to our health care workers, it applies to the care of the elderly; it applies to virtually all parts of Danish society that this work done there has an invaluable significance, not only for those who are affected by illness and deprivation, but for Denmark as a whole. In those words, on behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153050	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. I would also like from here to send the warmest thoughts to the Prime Minister and her family. It is no longer possible to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 30 April 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153115	I have to inform you that those of Michael Aastrup Jensen under no. Question No 26 and Question No 31, by Mr S 985 and Question No S 986, to the Minister for Industry at the request of the author. Questions shall be put to written answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153120	The first question is to the Minister for Finance, and that has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Kristian Jensen. Before mr. Kristian Jensen has the floor, we will allow the rapporteurs from the urgent question to leave the Chamber and get to grips with the internship. There are a few microphones missing on the speaker table, and we are waiting for a solution to be found. I am sorry for the delay, but the technology is now in place, and the first question is to the Minister for Finance and is asked by Mr Gundelach. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153925	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153928	It is in the interests of Denmark and the EU that all Member States should be helped through the economic consequences of the corona crisis, but can the Minister ensure that future aid packages do not mean that Denmark will be liable for either current or future public debt from other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429153945	After all, the whole of Europe and also the European Union are hit hard by the corona virus situation. This also means that we are taking a number of steps together between countries to keep our hands on jobs and businesses. That makes sense, because if, for example, companies go down in Italy or Spain, the companies will not send orders to Denmark. So in addition to helping the countries most affected, we ourselves have an interest in it from the Danish side. So there is a high level of solidarity and we help each other. Where we then think it is important to say that we should be aware that things are not going too far, for example, if we want to make joint debt with transfers between countries, then if Italy were to take a loan, Denmark would be liable for it and would have to pay off Italy's loans. It must be Italy's responsibility to borrow the money... also to get them paid back.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154100	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154101	I would have hoped for a slightly clearer 'yes', that is to say a 'yes' for the Minister to ensure that Denmark will not be bound. Because there is no doubt that we agree with the intention to help each other and that it is in our interest. That was clearly also in my question. What is at the heart is the fact that a number of countries that have previously clearly refused to make common EU debts, such as Germany, are now starting to open up to it. There are beginning to be thoughts that not the past, but perhaps the future debt should be covered by common EU bonds and other. That is why I am concerned, because the fact is that the Danish people have been through a large number of reforms that have helped to ensure that we have the strong economy Denmark has today and that we therefore do not need to go through further reforms not only to solve our own problems, but also to solve the problems of other countries. That is why two things are needed. 1) There is a need for an alliance that is strong enough to say no to the desire for common EU debt, and 2) an alternative that can then do exactly what both I and the Minister agree on, namely to lift the European economy again and help businesses further. But I do not hear from the government at least not in the answer to the first question, but it may be because you save the goods in the end a bid for what to do then. So what's the government's plan? If you want solidarity and I heard it from the Minister that you want to have, but not a joint liability, what kind of solidarity is that? What steps does the government think should be taken to avoid the debt? However, what makes me ask the question is precisely the concern that when one of the countries that has said no so clearly in the past, namely Germany, begins to open up whether the Minister can then be sure that it is possible to avoid joint liability coming forward in the aid packages that the European Union will adopt to help countries through the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154257	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154258	The European Union is in a very exceptional situation because of the corona crisis, and this is also why, among other things, there is the situation. Under the auspices of the Finance Ministers, a number of measures have been taken which together contribute to the European economy of approx. 4,000 billion. kr. It has been supported and sanctioned and subsequently adopted by the Heads of State or Government. And I have to say that I do not have the same reading that Germany should suddenly have embarked on a course where you think it is just a good idea to make common debts between countries. But in specific cases you have, among other things. in what is called SURE, made a scheme in which countries through the EU can be allowed to borrow at a lower interest rate, but they are therefore still hanging away even on debt. They still have to pay it back for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154359	The European Union is in an extraordinary situation. The European Union also did so during the financial crisis and after the migration crisis. Each time, we have seen that countries from southern Europe have asked for joint debt, and each time we have seen a number of countries, among others. Denmark, Holland, Sweden and When you listen to Germany, you have to listen to the very fine nuances that are, because Chancellor Merkel is not known for moving quickly. What I am listening to is that she does not reject it in the same way. That is why the question is: has the Minister created an alliance of other countries that are ready to reject the demand for common EU debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154435-2	I agree that we must always listen very carefully to what Chancellor Merkel and other politicians say on the European stage. My impression is that Germany continues to be very, very sceptical about what might be called common debt. On the Danish side we have also said, as I have also said here, that our starting point is that we want to help take initiatives to help countries that are in trouble, but we do not think it is a good idea to have common debts where money is transferred from one country to another. So if, for example, Italy or Spain are given the opportunity to borrow at a better rate via the European Union, it may be sensible, but it is also important to say that it is Italy and Spain that have to pay back for themselves. Denmark shares this view with other countries, such as the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154531	Thank you. The questioner, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154533	I wanted an answer which said that the Minister could ensure that this would not happen. The answer I get is that it is on the basis or that it is not something you want. I believe that anyone who listens to the debate can hear that it is not nearly as strong an expression as securing. So I would just like to return to the first: what will the Minister do to ensure that Denmark will not be stuck with future debts if the pressure against Denmark and Germany and other countries that have said no is so great that there will be movement with them? What, then, will the Minister do to ensure that we do not hang on to the debts of other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154610	I have to say that I think that both the Prime Minister and myself have been very clear about what the Danish position is, most recently in connection with the meeting of Heads of State and Government and myself in connection with the meetings that have been held in the Finance Minister's circle. After all, we are working with other countries, such as Austria, Sweden and the Netherlands, to ensure that the principles that have been applied in the European Union will also be forward-looking. The questioner also knows very well that there are countries which, not only because of the corona virus situation, but through most of their history in the European Union, have wanted joint debt. The fact that there has been a corona virus situation does not mean that the Danish Government's position on this issue has changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154655	Thank you. That concludes the question. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Finance, and that has also been asked by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154703	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154707	Danish economy is strong because a number of parties have taken responsibility for strengthening the Danish economy with reforms and increased labour supply starting with the welfare agreement in 2006, but now, when used by the created room for manoeuvre to support Danish business, does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that parties that have opposed the reforms that have created the room for manoeuvre can now and in the future help to use the room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154731	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154732	I'll start where we agree. We have a strong economy in Denmark. It is thanks to changing governments and perhaps also changing finance ministers, and it is also one of the things that makes it possible for us, in the situation we are in now, to have a Denmark which, when we entered the Corona virus situation, had more muscles to withstand the pressure we are under right now than we would otherwise have had. I think there is reason to acknowledge that. Then I understand the question from Mr. Kristian Jensen should only allow those parties that have helped create a room for manoeuvre backwards to take responsibility forward, and I think that is a rather strange way of looking at it. So, we are in a situation that we haven't seen like since World War II, and I think that one of the finest things we have seen in relation to the work of the Danish Parliament is that the parties from left to right have helped all the parties in the Danish Parliament to go in and stand together to get us through this as best we can. I think it should be welcomed instead of saying that they should probably not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429154854	It's very easy to spend money. Anyone who has sat in the chair in which the Minister of Finance is sitting now knows that. It's very easy to spend money. It is much harder to get them, and when money is being spent on a whole range of aid packages today, on a whole range of measures to get both our association life, our cultural life and our business community well through this crisis, it can be done alone because there are some parties that have taken responsibility. I have compiled a list of the agreements that have helped strengthen the Danish economy since 2006, and one of the hallmarks of this is that these agreements have been adopted primarily by the same parties. My party, the party of the Minister of Finance, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left have been involved in almost all the agreements. Some agreements have also been agreed with, for example, the Liberal Alliance in the time when they sat in government, and also before, and with the SF in the time when they sat in government. What's been striking for me by looking through this is that some of the parties that today help take credit for spending money have never helped to provide this room for manoeuvre. At some point we get away from the emergency relief packages that are temporary and that can be used, because there is a room for manoeuvre now and here, because we have room in relation to the debt building in Denmark to punch a hole in the box now and here to help, in the long term we will have to ask: Where is the Danish economy so forward-looking? And who will be involved in deciding what tools are to be used? Should they be the ones who have never helped build up the economy? Or should it be the parties that have just helped to build up the Danish economy? I believe that everyone will say that those who have helped create a strong economy are also parties that first have the right to participate in their use. And with regard to the parties that have been opposed and warned against the reforms that are making us have the strength today, I do not understand why they are also helping to spend the money that other parties have created now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155057	First of all, it is the citizens, the companies and our community that have created these values. It is so true that a number of parties have taken responsibility for reforms, decisions that mean that today, overall, we are in a situation where we have a really strong Danish economy and, fortunately, we are not as challenged as other countries, although the situation is serious enough. But basically, I just think that an extraordinary time also calls for us to be pleased that all parties are going in and taking responsibility, rather than regretting the fact that the same parties have not been included in some agreements in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155148	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155149	It is unbearably easy to take responsibility for spending money. It is incredibly difficult to take responsibility for raising the money, and the reforms that have been made since 2006 some parties have been responsible for, and some parties have been vertically opposed to. I do not understand the reasonableness of the Minister of Finance saying that those parties that have opposed and warned against the responsible economic policy, which makes us so strong today, must now be allowed to spend the money on. Is it really the Minister's view that it is fair that, without contributing to the economic strength, we are now just helping to use the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155228	I fully agree with the former Finance Minister that it is easier to spend the money than to get it; when you have had this job, you know that it is right. But I also have to say that it really surprises me if Mr. Kristian Jensen is seriously of the opinion that the government should say no to some parties. Kristian Jensen refers to the fact that, in a situation so serious for Denmark, they must not take responsibility. That's sir. Kristian Jensen's right to think that they should be excluded. I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155318	Any householder's association that has had a cookout and sees that some residents come to eat, but never brings a dish with themselves, will at some point say: Is it reasonable that you eat from others' table without bringing anything to it? I do not think it is fair that parties that have warned directly against all the agreements that have helped to make the Danish economy strong are now helping to use the funds in the future, when I am also sure that the same parties will be opposed to the necessary measures to restore the strength of the Danish economy on the other hand, and so I am just appealing to the Minister and the government to reconsider whether it is reasonable that, without bringing anything to the table, we should be helping to distribute the courts and the goods forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155401	I agree that it is a healthy principle that if you come for joint eating, you bring some food yourself. This does not alter the fact that, with all due respect for the common eating picture, we are in a very unusual national situation, which we have not known in Denmark since the Second World War, and the consequence of the view that Mr. Kristian Jensen defends here is that the government should say in advance to some parties who would like to take responsibility for getting Denmark best through the crisis that they must not be involved. If that is the approach of the Left, then I must take note of it. This is not the way the government works, nor has it been the spirit of all the parties that have helped to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155452	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Kristian Jensen. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155503	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155508	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's assessment of the current gang dispute between the immigrant gangs, and does the Minister see a connection in relation to the corona challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155526	Thank you. Over the past year, the gang environment has become more and more raw. It is an environment that is completely ruthless and the gang members, with their criminal behavior, create insecurity for ordinary Danes. At the same time, according to the National Police, the environment is very dynamic and complex. It is characterised by a high level of conflict and violence against competing gang groups and other groups of people. It is also marked by frequent changing alliances, both across the groupings and within the groupings. There is also a large flow of members, and new groupings arise and dissolve within a short time. When that happens, personal contradictions often move in, and there are constant power struggles for dominance and market share, especially in relation to local drug markets. This means that the gang situation is unstable, and that comes among other things. in the form of conflicts and violent clashes between competing groupings. It is the opinion of the National Police that the current corona crisis is not seen to have altered the general behaviour of the gangs so far, but at the same time the National Police consider that the Corona crisis may have an impact on the drug market, which may indirectly result in further escalation of tension between the groups, leading to violent conflicts and other crime in the gang environment. In other words, we should not count on the gang members to start showing socialism because we are in a corona crisis. That's why the police have a strong focus on the gangs, and the police are constantly following developments in the gang area closely. This is also true in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155718	Thank you. I have asked this question because it can hardly have escaped your attention over the last few weeks that there are some conflicts. We can see it in the media when it is described that there has been shooting in one place that has been stabbing in the other place, and then there has again been shooting in the third place. It is clear, of course, that it creates a great deal of insecurity in our normally calm Danish society. What you have to do for the authorities, the government and the parliament is get these gangs ripped up with mess. There is an important effort there. What you can, of course, assess a little, and perhaps the Minister is a little bit about it, is whether the border controls that we have more firmly had for a period of time, fortunately, we in the Danish People's Party have meant that these gangs are pressed because it can be harder to get some of the drugs into the country for resale, and that they are thus also pressed on the wallet of the internal dispute that is ongoing between the gangs, as the Minister has said. So, as paragraph 1, I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is the Minister's impression that border controls have a direct effect, understood in the sense that it is harder to get drugs into the country because of border controls. I would also like, as paragraph 2, to ask the Minister for Justice whether the corona crisis and the closure of cafes, gyms and the like, where some of these gang members come and thrive, mean that there are more gang members and others associated with the gangs on the street, and whether the police are able to deal with the situation where we see that some of them are shooting at each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155925	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429155927	These are good and relevant questions. It is the opinion of the National Police that the current situation we have with the Corona virus can have an impact on the drug market. It depends, among other things, on: As the honourable Member has already said, the increase in border controls and the substantial reduction in air traffic may lead, if I may say so, to a lack of supplies. It has also meant that it is not only what does it; it is a little uncertain what has actually made it conditional on the fact that the hash price has increased quite considerably over the last year, in fact there has almost been a doubling. As the author also says, this could result in a further escalation of tension between groupings, resulting in conflicts and other crime in the gang environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160027	Thank you for your answer. I think this raises a rather interesting question, namely that we now have a border control which is relatively finely masked, and it is not a border control that continues forever and forever in the way it is today, because tourists cannot enter it is not a worthy purpose. But if, to an extent, drugs and hashish can be stopped much more effectively with the border controls that we now have, does this not mean that the government will ensure that the border controls that come on one side of the corona crisis become a different and closer border control than that which was before the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160106-2	I think you're ~ no matter how you look at it must call a question that takes a turn in a direction other than that which, at least I had just seen lay in this and which I had prepared. We have an interest in maintaining the border controls that are currently in place, first and foremost in order to avoid the entry into our society of coronas infected as a Trojan horse. There are a large number of questions attached to it. Who are you gonna let in? How are you gonna let them in? But one of the effects of this strong border control is that it's gonna be easier to get rid of these goods that we want to keep out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160147	The questioner for a final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160148	I am aware that it may not be so up-to-date for the Minister to have to answer that question, and I am sure there are also some very, very serious opponents of border controls. Fortunately, the Social Democratic Party is no longer. But that just doesn't change the relevance. Because if we can stop drugs and press the gangs more than is the case today at effective border controls, that is a very good question, and it also requires a very good answer, I think, and the answer must be: yes, we can actually do that here during the corona crisis and then we can also do that afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160226	It is not now because it is not opportune to answer; I think it is an incredibly relevant discussion. Immediately after answering the questions here, I am going to give a television interview, because there are a number of mayors from Jutland who have complained about border controls because it and the restrictions on entry mean that some of those who would otherwise come over the summer and provide turnover etc. in their territories, so that we may not be able to get to the extent that we maintain border controls. So there are many aspects to this, but one of the positive effects is that it limits the possibility of inter alia. to bring drugs into the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160302	Thank you. That concludes the question. We move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is also asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160314	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160318	Thank you. It sounds like this: how will the minister stop the gang conflict and the criminal gangs now and forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160327	The security of the Danes is a key priority for the government. The conflicts in the gang environment are therefore also a situation which the government takes very seriously. I know that the same applies to a broad majority in the Folketing, including the author's party, and together we have also taken a large number of initiatives. This applies not least to gang package III which has provided the police with effective tools to put the gangs under maximum pressure and keep them off the street by means of very long prison sentences. I do not think that is enough, because we need to constantly adapt our efforts and see whether the authorities have the tools to combat gang crime, and that is why the government has also taken further initiatives. The security and security package provides the police with a number of tools to help in the fight against gang crime, including: the possibility of increased surveillance in public spaces, and I have a clear expectation that the initiative will give the police better opportunities to also investigate cases of gang crime. There should be no doubt that I am willing to go very far to get rid of the gangs, and we are therefore constantly considering, in cooperation with the police, whether new measures should be taken. I also expect the fight against organised crime to be one of the themes that we need to address in the context of the new multi-annual agreement for police and prosecutors. At the same time, I have the expectation that the police will follow the area closely and use the areas they have, as we do, for example. has seen it with the recent introduction of visitation zones in the Copenhagen area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160502	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's commitment that there will probably be more than what we know and have on the table today. And it can be said that the gangs have the logic that more needs to be done from their side, and then the logic is also that the authorities need to arm up to ensure security for the citizens who can get into the firing line in the current conflicts. One of the things we are worried about in the Danish People's Party is that even here during the Corona crisis, where we were all supposed to take it easy in connection with the closure of society, some of these gangs breathe morning air and let their conflict break out in flames. Even before the city court ruling on the LTF came, it was true that from the moment the case was opened the gang was banned, but we now see that even the gang that we had actually shut down completely, in other words banned, apparently still exists in some form and is evidently in a conflict with another gang. We can read this in the Berlingske Tidende this week, and in this connection I would like to ask the Minister for Justice something: we in the Danish Parliament have adopted secondary legislation on several occasions because if this ban were confirmed, one thing and the other and the third thing would happen, but is it so durable that a banned gang can continue to exist in one way or another? That was one question. The second question is: how does the Minister see the need to strengthen legislation in relation to both the banned gang here, but also the need to ensure that others can be banned? After all, there is little difference between the LTF and several of the other gangs that are currently operating and that are in conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160717	I also find it deeply worrying that we still see the LTF, which to some extent is a group. The police's intelligence, the ones that I have been given, is that they are very aware of the police and that, unlike in the past, they do not take a demonstration in the same way. Nevertheless, I think that this is a provocation to the ban initially imposed by the city court, which is now being tested by the Court of Justice, that is to say that it is not being complied with. Fortunately, there are some possibilities of imposing penalties, which are regulated by law, following a violation of this ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160759	It is quite true that there are some options. The question then is whether they are being used in the right way, and I would like to hear the Minister for Justice about how the government will ensure that we shut down the LTF, not just for now, but also for posterity. Because it cannot be right for us to have legislation adopted in the Folketing which ensures that it is banned and that the gang in question can still exist in one form or another and, moreover, be in conflict with another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160836	It is true that when we are in a situation where the LTF is banned, it means that Members can be punished if they continue the activities of the LTF. It can, for example, be done. be if they recruit new members or continue the LTF under another name. It may also be the case that if someone is staying in the public domain or, for that matter, in the criminal services institutions wearing e.g. a LTF shirt or an LTF cap, you can be punished for possessing the hat etc., and also to ensure that the LTF does not continue, the police may, in certain circumstances, issue a residence ban to persons. So there are some tools in continuation of the ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160922	The questioner for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429160923	That is true, and the Minister also mentioned this before, that there are some tools, but the question is whether they are strong enough. That is actually what we are discussing here, and that is what I asked the Minister of Justice before. I would like to ask that again: are they strong enough when the LTF, despite the fact that fines can be handed out, etc. etc., apparently still gone now is in a conflict with another group, and thus in public space shoots at each other and commits stabbings etc.? Are they that strong enough? I have been told that you can wear a so-called LTF tattoo and you get a fine if it is visible, but if it is invisible to clothes and something like that, you won't get a fine. Is there something here where we are simply ridiculous as a society, where the gangs just go on like nothing happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161012	No, I certainly don't think we're a joke as a community. I think it is a great victory that we have succeeded in banning the LTF. I also think it has to be said that the way in which the group behaved before they were banned is very different from the way in which they are acting now. So, attention to the police they are much less demonstrative; they disappear when the police come, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161046	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. We move on to the next question. It's also for the Minister of Justice, and that's by Mr. Simpson. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161055	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161057	Thank you. As long as the government wants to preserve the closure of the Danish-German border for fear of covid-19 and thus increased border controls, does the Minister not think it would be appropriate that border guards should wear protective equipment in the form of both protective gloves and facial or mouthbands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161121	I fully agree with the questioner that border controls must, of course, be carried out in a way that minimises the risk of infection. It goes without saying that the police must take the necessary precautions to protect themselves and others from covid-19 infection in the current situation. This applies not only to border controls, but to the work of the police at all. The police therefore also follow the guidelines of the health authorities in general. In addition, the police have reported that they have taken a number of measures and have drawn up guidelines and instructions to limit the spread of infection among all employees. This means that police officers are instructed to use disposable gloves for unavoidable contact with others, just as police officers must carry and regularly use alcohol wipes or hand alcohol. Of course, there will be a number of areas in the police force where special attention will have to be paid to avoiding infection, for example. in relation to border controls, but also in relation to arrests or the transport of detainees. I know that the police have made special arrangements for contact with other people in special cases. I have faith that the police will also be able to carry out that part of their mission.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161243-2	Thank you, Minister. In fact, I must say that I do not quite understand what the Minister is saying. The situation at the border is that when people arrive here there are among others. 13,000 commuters from Germany every day must then be checked, and this is done using an ID card. That is to say, they have to roll down the window, they have to show their ID card, and there is a cop standing there and looking at it and, I would say, you have to be extremely farsighted, so that you don't have to be closer than the 2 meters to see what you are actually looking at. The question is, then, that you are faced with these plastic gloves, which are used repeatedly, that you are without muzzles, that you are without some sort of protective device, visor, or whatever it takes. There is, of course, the situation, Minister, that these border guards are running the risk of being so close to different citizens, very many citizens, where one of them could actually have the corona virus without knowing it and can personally bring this infection home. I think this is inappropriate at a time when we are so careful to keep 2 metres away, and when the people are in a job where they cannot keep 2 metres away, it is well obvious to help those who work there. It is also obvious to take account of the citizens who cross the border and have to cross the border, to take care of it. So my question is this: does the Minister not have a responsibility to protect these citizens from the Corona virus when the Minister and the Ministry and we have all introduced very extensive border controls and restrictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161433	I think it is extremely important that we have introduced border controls. I think it is important that we have said that we will not risk having a Trojan horse where, as the questioner also says, when we have a large number of restrictions, a large number of restrictions for ourselves within the country, we say that we can then leave the borders open and thus risk getting infected into the country, which we would otherwise have avoided if we had not said, but as we have done, that we will have to have intensive border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161506	The Minister replies that there is a need for intensive border controls. But the question is about the protective equipment that the people who are now carrying out this border control are using or are not using. In concrete terms, it is a question of some employees who have not been required to use all the protective equipment they actually have to use, which is both a problem for themselves and also for those who have to cross the border. If it were the Minister who was the border officer and stood before the many commuters, what would the Minister tell them in order to eliminate their insecurity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161545	If what lies in the question is whether the Danish police have protective equipment at their disposal, then it is the case that the Danish police have, and I have asked whether the Danish police have protective equipment at their disposal in order to protect themselves and in order to protect the citizens who are to be subject to control, as I also mentioned in my initial reply. I think the key point is that the police follow the recommendations of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161612	The questioner for closure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161614	I fully agree with the Minister that it is of course crucial that border guards should use the restrictions and agreements and the conditions made available by the Health Service and the instructions provided here. But the situation is that they do not. So my final question is this: will the Minister do something to follow up, and here I am thinking not as a requirement, but as an opportunity, as a perfectly natural thing, that being a border guard should be the same as being allowed to work in the health sector, and that close contact with people should of course also make it possible to have both the protective equipment available and to use them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161654	I think it is important in the way we manage our society that we show confidence in our employees. I do not believe that we will have a well-functioning public sector or, by the way, a well-functioning society if we, as ministers, are to be zealously involved in everything that is going on. I think the important thing is that the police follow the recommendations of the health authorities, and I think it should be fair that we in Parliament have confidence that the precise organisation in the specific situation is carried out by the skilled staff we have. Of course, there may be differences of opinion on this, but this government is in charge of trusting our public sector employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161740	That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and this has been asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161751	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161801	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is okay to make money by helping vulnerable children and pulling millions out and putting in their own pockets from social educational services funded by taxpayers, or will the Minister do anything to prevent this practice from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429161821	Thank you for the question. The answer to the question, whether it is okay to put millions of kroner, which are actually intended for help to vulnerable children, in its own pockets, I can give very quickly and also very briefly, because the answer is: No. I have also said this in many other contexts, and I am happy to say it again. It is the government's very clear position that it should not be possible in this way to make money on offers to vulnerable children and young people, both because these offers are funded by taxpayers, and also because I think that a position I share with the author is that making offers to vulnerable children and young people must be driven by ambition and a willingness to ensure a better everyday life for vulnerable children and young people, and not by any motive to be able to put millions in their own pockets and buy large forest areas in Sweden, which has been a concrete story in the press lately. It is also apparent from the proposal that the Social Democratic Party is always on the side of the children and that we believe that something needs to be done about this. We thought so before the elections, and that is what we mean here after the elections. Children and young people are among the most vulnerable people we have in our society, and that is why, as an adult community, we also have a very great responsibility to ensure a secure environment for their upbringing and to ensure the best possible future. That is why we are also looking at what we can do to curb this, and this is, of course, linked to looking at how we can generally strengthen the supervision of the economy of offers, because the possibility of withdrawing profits, as has been described in a newspaper in recent days, is not the only way to withdraw money from operations. Therefore, we need to be able to also look at other things, too high rent costs, expenses for renovation and maintenance may also be ways to withdraw money from the offer, or unnaturally high directors' salaries or fees for board members. That is why we need to look all around this, and most of all it is to provide some stronger muscles when it comes to discovering at all that this is happening, and then it is also about some regulation of rules that can make what we have seen impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162033	The reason I ask is, of course, that a year ago the Minister's colleague was on the front page of a newspaper saying: parties will prevent private people from pulling money out of settlements. It was something that the Social Democrats wanted to do something about, but now it has been barely a year and nothing has happened, and there is another story about millions of kroner being pulled out. That is why one wonders what the Minister has been doing about it all that time. You've had 1 year to figure out how and how to handle this. So I should like to hear from the Minister whether, with regard to the financial supervision of settlements, the Minister thinks that it is good enough when it is now possible to withdraw money and put it in his own pocket, when the money is now intended to support a social effort. As the Minister himself said, it is about millions of kroner coming from taxpayers. The problem is that the money is being deducted from the social budget of the municipalities, and if prices were set so that they could not generate such large profits, much more children would be able to receive help and support in their daily lives. So I would like to know exactly what the Minister is going to do. It has now been one year and there is nothing new in what the Social Democratic Party has done. I was able to read that the minister got the coffee in his throat, but I am glad that it went well so that the Minister can be present today in the Parliamentary Chamber. When will there be any solutions from the Minister and when will the Minister call for an exchange of views on this matter? That would be nice to know, because this has been going on for a very long time now, and we have seen very little action, so I would like to hear some answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162232	It is true that this has been going on for a long time, but it was also on because the questioner was a parliamentary basis for the previous government, where it was also known about this. In fact, I think that the questioner himself has revealed why this is not quite so simple. In the specific case raised by the questioner, which has been covered in the press, the problem is, of course, that even if we tightened up the ability of the Social Inspectorate to carry out financial supervision and see through ingenious company structures and other things, it would not mean anything to the offer that has been written about in the Extrabladet, as it is actually, because it is not an offer under the Service Act. So, unfortunately, this is not very simple, and it also requires us to do it properly if we are to close the gaps that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162318	Well, how many years does the minister need? The Minister has been in office for almost a year now, and a considerable amount of time has elapsed. It is nothing new that the Social Democratic Party has wanted this, so when is any action going to happen, when do you get to the bottom of this? How many years do you need? When can we see any action? Has the Minister set a deadline for this? Something else is in relation to supervision where I wanted to hear about it in relation to the municipalities. The municipalities also have supervision that they have to carry out in relation to these places, and does the Minister think that this should be tightened up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162359	I think we need to tighten up all the way around, because, in relation to the specific case that I assume is the one that has caused the rapporteur to call me down in this Chamber, the reality is that there have been municipalities that have supervised and there are supposedly good monitoring reports. I haven't read them myself, so I don't know. However, no municipalities have had the overall overview of the entire company, and by the way, municipal supervision does not have insight into executive salaries, for example. or in the fees of board members that you would have in the Social Inspectorate if it was an offer regulated under the Services Act, and therefore we have to come all the way around, which is why we also have to see if the solution can be anything in relation to municipal supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162437	The Minister did not answer when the Minister would call for some discussions on this. The Minister also did not answer when the Minister himself set a deadline for this. There has been quite a long time with a Social Democratic rapporteur and a minister who has been on the front page of the newspapers of several rounds on this particular issue, but nothing has happened and it is evident that it continues. So maybe the minister would make me a little smarter by making a deadline.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162511	Thank you. I think the rapporteur knows that this is complicated. In addition to everything I have described now with the various sectors that intervene over each other, and the different supervision that can be different, there is also a concern to take into account some citizens who may get into trouble, and that is why we need to do this properly. There are some citizens who are in offers, and there are also citizens who are happy to be in offers and also offers that get good content, professional assessments where you can be worried about the economy. I myself have an ambition to be able to act on this in the autumn, but it is clear that, like the rapporteur, I am not included in my timetable either, that there would be a global coronapandemic and, of course, it is clear that it extends some processes more than one might dream of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162551	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162600	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162610	Thank you. What will the Minister do in relation to the huge hump of cases that have piled up during the closure of the Family Court House as a result of Covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162623	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. It is, after all, a matter which is more nuanced than one might think when one hears the questioner's question. There is no doubt that the Covid-19 will have an impact on the proceedings and the waiting time in the House of Family Rights, which I have also informed the rapporteur of. However, what you are seeing right now is actually a reduction in the number of pending cases, because things are not still in the House of Families, which you might otherwise get an impression of when you hear the questioner's question. The cases requiring physical meetings are, of course, affected by the covid-19 situation, as the questioner also knows, because the questioner is informed of this, as are the other rapporteurs. However, the other areas of responsibility will then be dealt with to an even greater extent. I think the rapporteur knows that, but if I am going to re-invigorate why the physical meetings of citizens have been cancelled for a period of time in the House of Family Rights, it is, after all, that all civil servants who do not perform critical functions were sent home to limit the spread of covid-19. It was March 12th. This means, of course, that as long as physical meetings cannot be held, the queue for meetings will grow, and that will of course be a nuisance to the citizens affected. This is true in the area of the Family Court House as well as in many other areas of our society, public and private. Therefore, there is also a great deal of attention to getting more activities started as society opens up, of course, within a healthy health framework. For example: the Government and the Danish Parliament's parties have agreed that the Family Court House could reopen child conversations and supervised association from 24 April, i.e. It's been in operation for a few days now. Then we have just Friday-Saturday an agreement, including with the Danish Parliament's parties, on helping vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and part of that agreement means that the Family Court House must be able to meet again in the complex cases, i.e. the 7 cases, which are the heaviest cases, and so you will be able to complete those cases and send them over to Family Law. So activities have been opened up in the most complex cases and for some of the most vulnerable children as one of them, the rapporteur also knows that and, like the other, things have not been quiet in the House of Families, and you have at the moment. There are fewer pending cases than before entering the covid-19 situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162845	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. It is really gratifying that the family courthouse has been opened up under the auspices, it was possible and still away medically safe. Now the Minister himself mentions these 7 cases, and these are the most serious cases. What I might be worried about is that if the Minister does not take the lead and, as the rapporteur has already asked me, if every stone in this case is turned over, we will in fact end up with many of the other cases that are currently in this hump and therefore have not started and are therefore in uncertainty. So, the families do not really know when the cases will be brought and when they can be cleared up. What we have heard, and I assume that the Minister has heard the same stories from the families that you have, is that you are really, really worried about these cases that lie in this hump, these cases that are not being dealt with right now and that can develop disastrously and with huge consequences. I am also a well-being rapporteur for children and young people, and we already see a massive misfortune in children, and I agree that it is under another ministry, but we do not want to end up with the hump being pushed over and therefore the consequences going on. Does the Minister feel that enough has been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429162959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163000	The rapporteur knows just as well as I do that this new divorce system was heavily underfunded when it was agreed under the previous government that it was heavily underfunded. That is why, even before the coronapandemic, very long and far too long processing times have been pushed forward. We then took responsibility, together with the Finance Parties, for the disposal of over 100 million. kr. on this Finance Act to recruit more employees, to get something done about the waiting times, which was the consequence of the divorce system being as underfunded as it was. And it is clear that we have always been open about the fact that it will take some time to eat down those humps and limit that waiting time, and the rapporteur has been kept informed of this by means of consultations and written answers etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163051	Indeed, the rapporteurs have been, and the rapporteur has also asked whether every stone has really been turned around, because cases can potentially be very serious. After all, it is the Minister who is responsible for this, and these cases during the covid-19 and the corona virus are not invented yesterday. We have known for several weeks that there is something called the Corona virus and that, to some extent, you would shut things down, as you have done in many other areas, for example. in the children's area where emergency care has had to be provided. If you had to relate it to this, you could say to two thirds of those who are entitled to emergency care that what they are entitled to can get, while the last third cannot get it. It's kind of the same thing I'd like the Minister to transfer to this. We have to solve it, and we have to solve it all the way around. We are in an extraordinary situation. What will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163142	I am very, very much in favour of the way we have worked together in the Danish Parliament here during the Coronapandemic, and the way we have thought together, and I have been extremely open to all the ideas for solutions that have come on the table regardless of whether otherwise it is political opponents or stakeholders and professionals who have come with them. I would really, really like that here, if I could understand what the Left is carrying to the table now, because I am open to looking at everything. With the upgrading of staff we have allocated over 100 million. kr. In fact, despite the corona crisis, in order to correct the under-funding of the divorce system, it has succeeded in hiring the employees as required. The training of them goes a little slower, but we're in a good hurry. So what the rapporteur is asking or proposing, I would very much like to know whether the rapporteur can elaborate. I would like to accommodate it if it is a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163235	The questioner for the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163236	We can switch places. I would also like to be a minister and to be responsible for that area. Now it's the minister who has it. That is why I have also said, in statements to the media, that we want to be involved in turning every stone around, and we would also like to be involved in this if the Minister convenes a meeting. I assume that the Minister, with the good and talented ministry and with the officials you have, has the opportunity to come up with some other emergency solutions. It is a question of there having to be some emergency solutions that must be professionally sound and responsible for health care. But we see that other ministries come up with some very extraordinary solutions. That is what we need now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163309-2	But it is very easy to say: I do not know what needs to be done, but some have to do more. And it is even in a situation where it is some other parties that have had to set aside a three-digit million in order to try to rectify an underfunded divorce system. I would very much like to be sensitive to the rapporteur of the Left and to the Left Party if we have any concrete proposals so that we can assess whether they are health professionals and, above all, whether they are professionally responsible for these children, who really need to be protected in this difficult situation. The family courthouse, for example, works. in rolling out video meetings, but I do not assume that the Left believes that they should do so before they meet the security that is being put in place to deal with, for example. person-sensitive information. So just from here: There's a completely open door with me and in the Ministry, whose Left has some concrete suggestions for things we can look at other things it's hard to deliver on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163359	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply, and this is asked by Mrs Signe Munk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163411	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163424	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister thinking about the eighth round of supply in the North Sea, with recent developments in oil prices and instability in the oil market being taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163443	The price of oil is basically volatile. It's swinging up and down right now more than usual. At the beginning of the year, the price of a barrel of North Sea oil was approx. $60-65, a week after the WHO defined covid-19 as a pandemic, the price was down to $25. Oil is also traded on the so-called future market, where you pay for oil for future delivery. The American oil called WTI reached negative values on future contacts on oil with delivery in May. However, this does not apply to the North Sea oil. It was traded approx. $20 apiece. barrel with delivery in May. In other words, there are still buyers for the oil, although demand here too is lower than in the past. The fall is due to an abundance of oil on the market, primarily as a result of the global lockdown and prior disagreements between the major oil producing countries. Then, of course, one might wish that a fall in oil prices globally would mean that the world would not consume oil and gas in the future, but unfortunately that is not the case. That is, of course, one of the things we are working on by reducing demand. In relation to the specific question of what this means for the assessment of the eighth round of invitations to tender and the Danish interests in the North Sea, it is clear that the oil prices and volatility that belong to there are, of course, part of the analyses, but it is also clear that the current situation is a snapshot, just as I know the rapporteur's position on the issue. Therefore, allow me to say that I think the rapporteur, if the situation had been the opposite, in other words that prices had gone very high for a few months due to some external shock to the market, would probably also have declined to use it as an argument for at least maintaining the extraction of oil in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163642	The Minister is quite right that my position on the eighth round of invitations to tender is certainly not on the basis of a snapshot. This is a clarification that we have reached in the SF after careful consideration. I would like to address the element addressed by the Minister, namely the price of oil now and here. It is, of course, a snapshot that I fully acknowledge, and it is also crazy that we can see that there is a negative price of oil. And of course this is a consequence of the fact that society is put to sleep not only in Denmark, but also in the rest of the world. But that also shows a trend, as I also hear the Minister's pointers, namely the uncertainty about oil prices. In response to the current oil price, environmental wiseman Lars Gårn Hansen was out saying that the current oil price showed a greater uncertainty than had previously been expected on the oil market. That is exactly what I would like to talk about. Because when we talk about the eighth round of invitations to tender, it is an extension of the concessions that will be in the North Sea, and it will also be associated with a number of investments. Both the Minister and I know that the state's commitment to the North Sea is through the North Sea Fund, where 20% is co-financed. the cost of exploration and the investment in the installations needed to pick up oil or natural gas, if they are found. What you can see is that there has been a sharp fall in equity in the Nordsøfonden from 2012 until 2018. And it is also the case that if there is a deficit in the North Sea Fund, it is the state and the Danish taxpayers who are holding up. That brings me to the fundamental question. If the Minister wishes to carry out the eighth round of invitations to tender, 20 per cent shall apply. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on this matter. Can the Minister not be concerned that investments will be made which are stranded and which will, in the utmost consequence, be a cost to Danish taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429163908	It is clear that all forecasts, all projections, of course, are included in the overall calculations and the overall assessment of whether or not something is profitable. I think we should be careful not to use this argument for a low oil price as an argument for a green transition. The questioner will be aware that I am certainly also in favour of a green transition, and I am also in favour of it going much faster than it is now. However, in the international talks of which I am a part, and some of them I have initiated myself, the concern is going a little the other way right now, namely that the market will lead to the fact that, because oil prices are so low, it is more profitable to keep using oil. And if there is enough that will use it in large enough quantity, it will still be gone, even if the earnings per. liters will be smaller, be profitable to pull it out of the underground and use it for the purposes that may be. I think the rapporteur will agree with that. This does not, of course, mean that we are not doing the analysis we are constantly going to do, and which we have promised to do, of the North Sea, because the eighth round of invitations to tender is a factor to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164019	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164022	The current price of oil and what it is presented with are also, for example, shown. of the economic statement that came from the Ministry of Finance here recently. You're actually counting on a profit of $60 a year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that we have been discussing this matter. But what is in it is that you start the eighth round of invitations to tender, you start the investigation, you set some costs in motion. Is it not true that once billions have been invested in the creation of an oil well, it will always be profitable to extract that oil? And when that oil is extracted, we are actually helping to produce more oil, which is contrary to the objectives of the Paris Agreement, that we should actually leave one third of the known oil reserve in the ground to achieve the two-degree goal of the Paris Agreement. So, with this investment, you can't risk undermining the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164123	No, it's not a real picture. In other words, in the first place, we allow investigations to be carried out, and on the basis of this investigation we then assess which investments should be made later, and those investments are then of a size and nature, in which it is clear that we will of course also have an expectation that they will be carried out. It is clear that one probably doesn't do investigations either. I can't imagine anyone going to bid in on where one doesn't see at all that there can be a good chance of getting the investment remunerated. But in the first place it is the investigation that is permitted, even if it does not necessarily lead to extraction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164202	That leads back to the fact that this investigation will be associated with expenses. In addition, in the outline of the eighth round of invitations to tender, a material sent out shows that some small instances are expected. So if we should look at both the climate and the Danish economy, I would just like to repeat the question: is the Minister not concerned that the eighth round of invitations to tender can really end up as a deficit business, as an expense, rather than as an expected income?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164229	If so, of course I would be. That is what the analysis we are doing must show, i.e. what the risks are with it. So, on the part of the government, we are of the opinion that this should be clarified in relation to both the economic side of the matter and also the environmental side of the matter. In the way the questioner puts it, it is almost as if it is certain that this is not an economically viable exercise and that the eighth round of invitations to tender must therefore be cancelled. So, I think it will be seen that the very, very large amounts we have earned on the North Sea in the past and the money we are going to earn in the future both with the already granted permits and any potential permits in the future • overall and perhaps even in isolation will show that there will be money to collect. Is it the same as having to make the decision to continue with it? It's not. But a purely economic argument is not at least, as I see it so clearly in the direction that the questioner would like the matter to go, but rather rather the other one.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164346	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply, and it is asked by Mai Villadsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164356	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164359	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that when we agreed with the Climate Act that Denmark should be an international pioneer country and we should not only look at national reductions, then we will have to deal with the massive climate effect of soy imports and have this reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164420	Yes, I very much agree with that. I would even go so far as to say that I think it is extremely important that we do not just stare blindly at the 70-percent objective. It's the one we've become known for in the world. This is what follows the United Nations inventory methods. It is clear that this is a cornerstone of our climate policy. But precisely because of the way things are done in the UN system it has its natural reasons, and some of the reasons are also legitimate then it means that it does not give a completely true picture of what a country we are in the green area. That is why we need to focus more on our consumption. We also need to focus on the productions in our society, which may be measured on some parameters are quite green, also from a climate perspective, but if you bring the whole value chain, including what is going on abroad, then it may not be so good. I think that this case of soya imports is a pretty good example of something that needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164523	After all, we all remember the horrible pictures that were this summer of forest fires from the Amazon. One of the major reasons for these fires was not only natural causes, but also the fact that deforestation has taken place in order to get more space for soy. It is soy that the pigs in Denmark are actually fed every day. In Denmark we produce many of them, actually over 30 million. So you can really say that Danish agriculture also has a large share of the blame for the large emissions that we have as a result of soya production. Last week there was a report from the University of Copenhagen that really showed how big that discharge is. In fact, it can be compared with the exact size of the passenger car emissions in Denmark. So it says something about it being huge. That is why I also hope that the Minister will agree with me that we cannot just use declarations of intent from agriculture and have a belief that something is actually going to happen, but that we also have to go in and regulate politically, as we have done, for example. In Sweden, where there is a requirement that all soya imported is soya which has not been produced as a result of deforestation. It will certainly mean something to the emissions that are in the Amazon. I hope the Minister will agree with this and that this is something we can discuss, even when we talk about the international perspective in our climate action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164658	As the questioner probably knows, the Minister for Food has also had a great deal of focus on this area. In the autumn, the Ministry of the Environment and Food concluded an agreement with a number of trade organisations, supermarket chains, NGOs, the Danish Alliance for Responsible Soja, as they have chosen to call themselves; that is an excellent name given the purpose. So before the end of this month, companies will actually have to submit action plans with initiatives aimed at ensuring that all Danish imported soya is produced responsibly, including that soya production does not contribute to the felling of the rainforest or reduce CO2 we expect a great deal of that. It is clear that if it turns out to be a failure, we must return to this. But I think that the Enhedslisten too, although we share the concern, is not the case that things should seem to be prepared, so let us hope that this is the case. In addition, it is also important to look at how we in Danish feed production can use alternatives, i.e. alternative green proteins. After all, research has been set in motion in several places, as the questioner no doubt knows, and we expect a great deal of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164814	It is quite true that in the Enhedslisten we do not want to resort to coercion just for the sake of coercion, but we can also say that agriculture does not have the best history of voluntary agreements. So that's why I'm actually worried. It can be seen in Sweden that agreements have actually been made to ensure sustainable soya. I do not think, however, that these agreements are necessarily enough. We also have to look at the CO2 2 I hope very much. Now the Minister has said that we are making agreements with agriculture. We already have an alliance, but if we do not succeed, we must take action. How long does the Minister think it should take? If imports of soya do not become sustainable, when do we really have to take action and do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429164916	It is perhaps a little early to say here, a week before they are obliged to submit plans for action. That is perhaps just offensive enough, despite the fact that I share the concerns of the questioner. I have to say that it is true that agriculture, or indeed other industries in Denmark, has not always lived up to all voluntary agreements they have made. I also recall a single or two that I myself have entered into as Minister for Food, which could probably have been implemented more in time. Having said that, I also sense that, frankly, there is now a different approach to matters, not least in the agricultural sector, than there was just five years ago. Sustainability has become a general agenda. The agricultural industry and the agricultural organisations in Denmark know that they also have a great obligation to ensure that the food we produce and eat is also more sustainable, not least on the climate front. So I actually expect a lot of this, also because there are more players. The retail trade is also involved, and the retail trade therefore has the possibility that they can also punish producers who do not live up to this. I think we can have a certain presumption that they will. So I'm actually pretty confident about this, just like the Minister of Food is now looking down at him. He's nodding. But, of course, we're following up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165036	In the elections, the people gave us a very clear mandate. Brake climate change, low action, do something now. And we won't if we don't look beyond our own nose tip. I think the Minister has also acknowledged this in his reply. I'm really glad. Because we can be proud of a lot in Denmark of wind turbines, heat pumps, district heating, all the good we do and export. But we also have an impression in the world, which has been too invisible and which is much bigger. That is why I would like to ask the Minister at the end: when will we get to work on the negotiations on the international track, on our footprints in the world? This is something that is really urgent because, as I have already said, these emissions are really considerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165125	First of all, I would like to say that we have negotiated a climate agreement which ensures that every year the government which is currently in office has to explain what is being done on the international front, that is. things relating to imports, things relating to bilateral cooperation and how our development aid affects it, etc. So we now have a structural approach which will enable us to see politically what is happening and whether we will be able to negotiate if we do not think that what is happening is good enough, because every year we have to have approval of a climate review here in the Folketing. In addition, however, we have already set things in motion, which are not things to be negotiated. We have increased the climate diplomacy. We've hired a climate ambassador. We're going to have more diplomats out in the world dealing with this. I myself am quite active, I dare say, both in the International Energy Agency and in the European Union right now to ensure that the recovery policy to be carried around the world also turns green and underpins the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165227	Thank you. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165238	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165241	Thank you. My question is this: does the Minister agree that it is a bad idea to give the green light to launch the eighth round of invitations to tender in the North Sea when there is a risk that, in addition to being harmful to the climate, it will also cause a loss to the Treasury, particularly in view of recent developments in both oil prices and oil market instability?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165307	As the questioner knows, we are analysing both the climate elements of this discussion and, of course, the economic ones, that is clear. As a country, we have earned hundreds of billion dollars on oil and gas from the North Sea. Of course, what this future picture looks like must be clearly explained before we can make a final decision. Conversely, it is also clear that we want to be a pioneer in climate change, and that is why we must of course think about it. The current oil price is, of course, included in the basis of calculation because it shows something about how volatile prices are, but it is also clear that it is a snapshot. After all, we are talking about an eighth round which, if necessary, will generate the bulk of its income after 2035. So that snapshot probably doesn't matter much, but it's, of course, just like all the elements that matter in our analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165407	I quite simply believe that we should say no to new oil wells. I have also repeated this several times with the Minister. We must leave most of the oil that has already been found worldwide in the ground if we are to live up to the Paris Agreement and if we are not to risk completely catastrophic climate change, which is already racing out there. That is why we have also voted against the eighth round of invitations to tender in the Enhedslisten. I think it is very, very worrying if we start to tie ourselves to a black mast as far as 2054, when we know that the world must be CO2 neutral far, far before that. I'm seriously worried about that. When the Minister has previously confirmed in an answer that we will probably only make very little money on this eighth round of invitations to tender, I am very concerned when we see a situation where oil prices fall to a much lower level than we have estimated and where there is a real risk that there will not even be an income from the eighth round of invitations to tender, but that this could be a real cost to taxpayers. Ergo, it's bad for the climate and bad for the economy. Doesn't that really concern the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165522	If we presented a case that is extremely bad for the climate, extremely bad for welfare, enormously bad for taxpayers and hugely bad for jobs, that would worry me. But what this government has done, as the first one in Denmark, is to say that we really need to get this properly clarified. So despite the fact that there was a decision, which I think most people had expected, that as one of the first things I would just sign, when I put myself in the chair as Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, I chose, on behalf of the government, to do something else, namely start an analysis. That analysis is not quite straightforward. That is also why it is not ready yet. We have also asked the Climate Council to bid. I think the questioner will agree that the Climate Council will be able to provide good arguments on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165618-2	I cannot help but wonder, in my quiet mind, why a decision was taken without feeling that it was properly clarified. So, it was all parties in the Folketing except the Enhedslisten and the Alternative who voted yes, and now the Minister says that it was not properly elucidated. I'm really glad that the minister didn't just sign and say, "Now we're going." And it can also testify that there is a new green consciousness, also in the Folketing; I really hope it is an expression of that. But I'm also deeply concerned that this is just pulling out the torment, and at some point it gets signed anyway. So I would like to hear: how far are we in these investigations? And when does the Minister really expect to make that decision, hopefully, to drop the eighth round of invitations to tender?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165702	Well, when most of the Danish Parliament's parties made that decision, they probably did so on the basis of the logic that so far it has of course been a good idea for Denmark to do this. Many, many billions, hundreds of billions, who have built up the welfare state and who, moreover, have also helped to pay for the green transformation in Denmark. It is a big decision if you were to start saying no to the source of income, and then especially if you did so in a way that it would not even have a climate effect, because there would also be a carbon leakage effect in it. What has then happened, which is new, is that oil prices are developing and markets are evolving, and that there are various studies which question, for example, what is happening here. The carbon leakage effect, and that is what we have set out to investigate. So I do not see that it is so strange that, when we get the government, we start further investigations. Perhaps I should tease the questioner a little and say that perhaps it was a little strange that one could say no so sloppyly no regardless of what and without knowing the basis, but peace be with it. Once we have the basis, we can, of course, take that discussion on a slightly more enlightened basis. Then it may also be that the questioner will perhaps be willing to look at the fact that there are arguments both for and against which she has not previously known.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165813	I look forward to seeing that basis. So I can tell the minister that we have Frank Aaen in the Enhedslisten, so we have a dedicated digger. But I am actually deeply concerned that we are currently in a situation where oil prices are so low and, at the same time, the equity of the North Sea Fund is almost disappearing. Well, that could really mean that every taxpayer gets an incredibly long nose when it turns out that this is going to cost. It will cost us all; we simply need money out of our pockets to pull more oil out of the ground, perhaps as far as 2054. I have to admit that I find it very difficult to imagine that there will be a basis for decision which does not just say that it is bad for the climate and that it is extremely risky for the economy. And I really hope that the Minister will take note of that and then make the right green decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165906	It is of course interesting what the questioner has enormously difficult to imagine will happen or will not happen. And that was said a little polemical, but it wasn't really meant that way, or so it was. But listen to me: no matter how you turn and turn it, and I understand that you are using it as an opportunity to ask this question, we can surely agree that it is a snapshot now, and we can surely agree that the questioner would probably not have come to me today, if the price had been doubled, which could also easily have been an external shock on the market which had made the case and had said: I'm sorry, we've changed our position on the North Sea, because now we can suddenly see that the business case is another because of this snapshot. This may not have happened, so let us not waste too much energy on that snapshot and then take the discussion properly when we have the basis for the decision, among other things. with the recommendations of the Climate Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429165953	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question has been put to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities, and that is what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170007	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170010	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister agree that Danish agriculture should take responsibility for the enormous greenhouse gas emissions associated with Denmark's imports of soya for pig feed from South America, and as the University of Copenhagen has just shown is 60%? higher than the overall emissions of the agricultural industry here every year, and does the Minister agree that this emissions should also be addressed when negotiating a climate action plan for agriculture, and that therefore the recommendations of the Climate Partnership for Food and Agriculture to reduce greenhouse gases are not adequate?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170049	Thank you for the question. There should be no doubt whatsoever that agriculture has a responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions associated with the soya imported into Denmark. After all, it has all the actors involved in the use or consumption of soya. Therefore, I am also pleased that we have the Danish Alliance for Responsible Soja, which brings together a wide range of among others. professional organisations, supermarket chains, NGOs and, therefore, my ministry. In the alliance there is a common vision that soya imported into Denmark must be produced responsibly, including produced legally and not contribute to the deforestation or conversion of other natural vegetation, and I also have a clear expectation, of course, that the action plans for soya, which will soon be submitted by the companies involved in the partnership, will contain measures that will ensure against deforestation and also guarantee that we can trace where the soya is produced. And I would also like to make it clear that if the industry itself does not want to introduce such standards, then I will look at all the options to ensure that this can happen. I agree that these aspects should be addressed in future climate action plans, possibly in a climate action plan for agriculture or a global sectoral action plan for climate. However, I do not think it is fair to criticise the Climate Partnership for the Food and Agriculture sector for not including it here in their recommendations, as they have been asked to look at emissions in relation to the 70% target from a national point of view, and this does not, of course, fall within this scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170259	Thank you. It is a good thing that the agricultural industry has now begun to recognise that Danish pig production is dragging a very large black trail behind it. We talk about deforestation of vast areas where forests are being cut down so that we in Denmark can maintain the huge production of bacon and hams; a trail that has extremely devastating consequences for the climate, for the local population of South America and for the nature of the Amazon. I can hear that the Minister has confidence in the profession and expects a great deal of action plans and declarations of intent from the Danish soy alliance, which will probably be published tomorrow, if they meet the deadline, where the industry will work along the path of volunteering towards less imports of soya leading to more deforestation in South America, thereby also reducing the climate impression of imported soya slightly. But the huge problem is the huge imports from an area greater than Zealand and the CO2 load from the large imports, which have now been estimated at around 6 million. t CO2 and that, when you look at it with global glasses, the burden that agriculture now has of 10-11 million should be added to that of CO2. t, which is the official number. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister again about climate action plans for agriculture, which we look forward to negotiating: does the Minister agree that the recommendations of the climate partnership for food and agriculture with the Director of Danish Crown at the forefront do not take into account the enormous greenhouse gas emissions associated with the import of soya and are therefore not sufficient at all? I would like a clear answer: yes or no to the question of whether the Minister agrees that, in the forthcoming climate action plans for the agricultural sector, account must be taken of the climate impact caused by soya imports. Does the Minister agree that we should take a critical view of the imports and deal with the global impact that Denmark thereby has?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170512	There should be no doubt that I believe that the soya we import into Denmark should be guaranteed a hundred percent and not contribute to deforestation or other displacement of vegetation. It must be sustainable, and the government is clearly working for this, and the industry has a clear responsibility here. When the climate partnership has not taken the soy problem or the emissions into their report, it is because they have been asked to deal with the national context. But, of course, I also agree that we need to see this at a global level, and that is why, of course, I would also like to press for us to ensure that it comes into the global reporting, which is also in our national climate legislation, so that we can talk about this emissions when we have to make up for the impact on the environment and the climate, also at global level.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170613	Well, it's fine that you start counting it, and then we have to look at what options we have for reducing imported soya. I note that the Climate Council is operating with a CO2 tax, including in the agricultural sector, and it would be very good if we put a CO2 tax on imported soya, and for the sake of the European Union we might have to do so on all soya, so that it could also hit a small corner of European soya production. Is the Minister prepared to impose a CO2 tax on soya so that we can reduce the soy load that exists in connection with our livestock production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170650	Well, I am primarily interested in the fact that all those who consume soya in Denmark import sustainable soya, and that is the situation we need to achieve. Now it is a pity that the question is today and not tomorrow, because there we are told what the industry itself is offering to help us get a situation where we have 100% sustainable soy imports into Denmark. But I'll do what I can to make sure it happens in the business. I will also ensure that through our public procurement we contribute to this happening. And, of course, with regard to the international level, I will also do what I can in the European Union to ensure that we have an overall EU policy that does not import soya or contribute to deforestation within the European Union. So I think the questioner and I are in complete agreement on where we are going in this matter. But I also think that the means we should use at least in the first place should provide an opportunity for those who import soy themselves to act and take responsibility for themselves. It must be a good objective to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170759	No, we do not agree, because it is not enough simply to ensure that soya is imported from areas where there is no new deforestation. We have the problem that there is an import burden of 6 million. t and the load must be reduced. I would really like to hear whether the Minister agrees that the objective is that we come to the conclusion that we have animal production in Denmark, where the animals are fed Danish feed, in other words that this is the sustainable solution that we must work towards. And on the way to that goal there may of course be bad soy and some soy that is slightly better, but 6 million. In fact, the report commissioned by the Ministry itself at the University of Copenhagen shows that there is an additional burden from Danish agriculture. Does the Minister agree that Danish livestock should be fed Danish feed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170852	To the extent that you can produce feed in Denmark, which of course is also sustainable, it is fine that Danish production animals are also fed with it. And that is what I think the questioner is also asking about a number of attempts to develop new types of protein of grass which can be used for it and which can reduce imports of foreign feed and, at least, unsustainable soya. However, in relation to soya imports, this is still the starting point for me to achieve a target where we have one hundred percent imports of soya, which is sustainable and does not contribute to deforestation. And that is the aim of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170934	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen. We can now move on to Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 12, which is also addressed to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. And the questioner is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429170949	Thank you. And the question is: how will the Minister explain that the government first announces that it will provide the help needed to get well through the Corona crisis, including for example: We all know that the market in horticulture is very badly affected at the moment, but now in practice the size of the aid packages is being reduced to very small, at least when you look at the Netherlands, which has a completely different statement, where they say that they will give four or five times more, and will the Minister indicate what initiatives the government will take to ensure the survival of horticulture here in Denmark as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171034	Thank you for the question. I believe that the questioner and I fully agree that we must do what we can in these times to keep our hands on the Danish professions affected by the corona crisis, and this of course also applies to horticulture. The government, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament and with the social partners, has launched a number of aid packages. They support the liquidity of the Danish companies with the possibility of e.g. to take interest-free loans and to postpone their corporate tax payments and VAT payments. In addition, we have also made compensation arrangements in relation to wages and also fixed costs. These compensation schemes were, of course, adapted before they were launched so that they would also be more suited to industries which work with perishable warehouses, including the horticultural industry. And it was a response to a wish that the horticultural sector had. And the system has not been changed, as is implied in the question. It's a misunderstanding. On the basis of a calculation example, however, Danish Gartneri would like to see a further adjustment of the compensation scheme. And the Ministry has made Dansk Gartneri aware that energy costs can also be included as a fixed cost, and this increases the compensation, but is not included in Danish Gartneri's calculations. The compensation scheme, which has been set up, has to be seen in the context of the other aid measures and can, for example, be seen in the context of the other aid measures. is also combined with a loan. In relation to the Dutch arrangements, we are in dialogue with the Dutch authorities about this. They have not yet put into effect the arrangements they have made, so it is too early to say exactly what it covers. When you look at the figures from the Netherlands over the total compensation, you have to remember that in the Netherlands the horticultural sector is approx. 13 times as large as the Danish measured in turnover. So that means that the amounts down there are, of course, larger. But what I think we can both welcome is that the market for flowers is now undergoing slow recovery in important markets, among others. in Germany, and I hope that it will win back some of the lost. But I am fully aware that the situation is difficult and that the aid packages that have been put in place should, of course, help, and I think they too do. They also give Danish horticulture a substantial boost in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171327-2	Thank you. You could say that so far, so good. After all, it is a good thing that we have got the horticulture clearly on the agenda and that it should be looked at, and so it is good that it can now be included in relation to energy costs. So it is all very well that these things have been put in place. But then you also have to take stock of the situation you are in and the reality you are in. Because, despite the fact that sales have increased a little, and of course we should welcome this, although it is slow and at a low level and, unfortunately, still away at much reduced prices, it only makes it possible for the horticultural sector to be turned back on the board, it can be said, in comparison with for example. Holland. If you compare it with the Netherlands, which is at a relatively comparable level, you can see that it is at least that it has been reported from the Netherlands four to five times as strongly in terms of aid and, indeed, with a tactic from the Netherlands that they will support their profession so that they can go more out on the market when it is that things, for example, are done. hopefully again will be normalized. So there is a need to do more. But I am glad to hear that the Minister will follow well what is then specifically reported from the Netherlands, and that leads me to the next question too, so that it must also mean that the Minister and the government, if they effect it in the Netherlands, what something suggests, must also be ready to quickly convene some meetings so that we can get to the same level. Is this how it should be understood, that the Minister is ready to move and improve the packages when it is that they start to effect it in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171500	Now, of course, the questioner knows very well that the arrangements we have made are made jointly between the government and all the parties of the Folketing, and of course we always listen to whose parties come up with proposals for things that need to be adjusted in the packages. Overall, we know a little about what is on the table in the Netherlands. The picture that emerges is a picture that actually resembles the Danish one, where the first 30 per cent. the loss of turnover will be the risk of each horticulture, while the State will be able to cover a percentage of the remaining lost turnover in the period from March to May compared with the average over the last three years. Then you set a ceiling on how much the individual company can receive to ensure that all beneficiaries can receive support within a single framework, and this is very similar to the Danish scheme, as I said. But it is clear that we are looking at whether there are things that we have overlooked. Then, of course, we will also look at whether this is something that should be introduced in the Danish schemes. But so far the information we have is that it is similar to the arrangements we have made in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171615	It may well be that there are some principles that are somewhat similar. But when you look at what's being stuffed into those principles and stuffed into the calculations, I think there's enough, and I'm pretty sure there's good reason to get the calculations updated. For it is the announcements from the Netherlands that the government, the state, takes 30% and that you are then ready to go into a large coverage of the rest. And it ends precisely in the calculation, which I think the Minister is also aware of, that in the individual horticulture of the same size and comparable to a Danish one there will be aid four to five times greater. That is also why there is good reason to start preparing for it now. So the question is this: Will the minister, in addition to keeping well up to date and I think that is good already now, can we say, follow it and prepare for us to move just as quickly here in Denmark in relation to helping our gardeners? As far as getting an inquiry is concerned, we can say that I am now standing here as a Leftman, and I am quite sure that it has been suggested that help should also be given to these hard-hit horticultures. Then the Minister must also be fully aware that there are Danish horticultures out there, which otherwise up to the corona crisis ran well and healthy and with positive equity capital, and which falls completely out of the aid packages, and that is not good. These are some of the growth gardens that we must bring into the future. So will the Minister keep a very sharp eye on it and be ready to move?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171741	I am, of course, following the sector for which I myself am a minister, and have also held several meetings with the horticultural industry in order to find out what their situation is on an ongoing basis. But I must also say that the aid packages that we have already introduced give a hand to horticulture, just as they do to other industries. Unfortunately, I do not think there are any professions that will come out of this without any loss, but they must of course be limited as much as possible. As I said, what we can see from the Dutch scheme so far is that it is very similar to the Danish one. But of course we go down in it as we get more detail. But you just have to remember that, when you see the figures in the Netherlands, that is because the Dutch sector is 13 times as large as in Denmark, and of course it will also be some other figures that come on the table in that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171836	I help: The Dutch horticultural sector is about 13 times as large as the Danish one, but when you divide by 13 and translate it into Danish conditions, it is of course that the aid is relatively reported out to be four to five times as large in the Netherlands, and therefore there is really good reason to keep a close eye on it. There is also a receipt that the Minister has held meetings with the professions. That is what we asked for earlier, so what we are actually calling for here and now is that, if I may say so, you are right in the tail of that development. Because it is driving fast, and I also assume that the Minister is very interested in ensuring the future of the Danish horticultural sector, not only for the sake of horticulture, but also for a very large number of jobs there and the large exports that are there, and not least for the large derived effect that is there, and when we see that some of the very large horticultures, which otherwise run well, fall completely out of the packages, then there is something in the packages that has not been settled. I have to make that clear, and I would also ask the Minister to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429171938	I can only say that we are interested in keeping our hands as much under the professions as possible. Of course, this must be done on equal terms between the various sectors. But that is our intention, and that is why we also have a close dialogue with the industry. As I have also mentioned, the questioner's own party has been involved in making these arrangements, and if there are things you want to change, we are of course very happy to listen to it, and you have the opportunity to play into the government. But the starting point is, of course, in this situation also to hold hands during the horticultural industry. This is important for Denmark and for Danish jobs. That is also the clear position and view of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172021	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Liselott Blixt, who has the opportunity to tell us what she wants to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172039	Thank you very much. In short, how will the Minister ensure that the psychiatry receives the plan of action as promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172052	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the question. Well, the short answer is that the situation of covid-19 does not alter the government's ambitions in terms of a 10-year plan for psychiatry. There is still a huge need for psychiatry to be given a boost, and the idea of the 10-year plan is to ensure the long-term development of psychiatry and coherence across the sectors that today stand too far apart and where people fall between the different chairs. When we can exactly start this work on the 10-year plan, it is difficult to say anything about today, because it depends entirely on the development of the epidemic and our ability to control the epidemic. And it has to be said that the government, the Health Authority, our regions and our municipalities are currently focusing almost every effort on solving the task of getting our country as well and safely through the epidemic as possible. However, this does not mean that we should remove focus from psychiatry until then, on the contrary. People with mental disorders are some of the weakest in society and perhaps especially right now. Therefore, the focus must also be on psychiatry, including now, while the epidemic is on. So that means that while the 10-year plan is moving in the long-term direction, then the actual funding of the 2020 budget can ensure a boost even this year. And, as you know, with the agreement on the Financial Act for 2020, 600 million were set aside. kr. annual, to help solve some of the most pressing challenges in the field of psychiatry: mainly more hands, more beds, strengthened capacity, better standards in the stationary and outpatient psychiatry and the emergency area, plus funds for the psychiatry and more places on the fuse. This is all incredibly important. We are close to establishing the detailed implementation of these funds in dialogue with Danske Regions, and I look forward to the large amount of money coming out to roll and make good where the need is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172300	Thank you very much for your answer. I am very pleased that the plan has not been shelved, because I think it means something to a lot of people at the moment, especially during the crisis, where you think it is being pushed because there is so much focus on the corona virus at the moment. After all, I have asked the Minister the question before, because it is an important matter for the Danish People's Party that we are doing something for those people who have a mental illness, and therefore it also hurts when we now see the challenges we have at the moment, that there are very many people who do not get hospitalised and do not get the help they need. Many discharge themselves because they cannot have visitors, and we can see that antipsychotic medicines are increasing. I think that we could have a good basis here for ensuring and communicating that there is a plan, but also say that we have to face the reality that everything costs money. We could draw up a 10-year plan, which we would very much like to contribute to, but it could also be said that in order to get it all together we will have to draw up a 12- or 13-year plan in relation to which economy there is. The most important thing for us is that a plan is being made, and that is what I would like to ask the Minister: is this something we can see ourselves in, that is to say that we will have a plan here this year at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172417	Well, actually, I see with great seriousness and concern that the activity in psychiatry has fallen here during the covid-19. This cannot be explained by anything other than a lack of inquiries and a lack of references, and it must mean that there will already be a larger number of dark ones out there that can turn into a hump • problems that are allowed to grow too large and too hard to deal with. We know exactly in psychiatry and also in large parts of the somatic area that early action is crucial, so it is very, very good that we are focusing on this, also during the epidemic, and I very much welcome it if you want to take part in that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172509	But it might be very nice to also say: Well, we're building something up here. We can see children and young people becoming more fearful because they now have to behave in a different way at school. Some cannot go to school, many are home in families that may have problems. Already here we can ensure that we secure the years to which funds are put, so we have psychological counselling in the municipalities for all of them. Isn't that something we could start by saying, so we're gonna secure this and we're gonna take that upfront? Because we're pushing a hump in front of us at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172544	Well, there's no doubt that this new everyday life that we're living under now, is restricting association. There is plenty of information about disease, and the fear it can give and gives widely in society makes it particularly difficult for children, young people, adults and families who are mentally vulnerable and who are already struggling with anxiety, stress, trauma, sadness, anxiety or depression. The government, together with all the parties in the Danish parliament last week, has made agreements on a number of initiatives, including: to allocate funds to patient organisations such as SIND, TUBA, LMS and Psychiatry Foundation in order to provide even more help in the difficult times. I think that is a good step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172625	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172626	I am very pleased with some of the telephone counselling that is available, but we must also face the fact that we are facing a huge amount of work when we can start working in the normal way. So the optimism about the money that has been put off, I'm gonna take a little off, because I think a lot of it is being used for the hump we've worked up. And then there must be new initiatives and a new plan such as the 10-year plan that has been promised, and that is for the one I am asking: is this the one that we can get started with this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172657	There I have to go back to my first answer, namely that we need to look more at how the epidemic develops. Right now, the infection rate is under control and hospitalizations are under control, but there are no guarantees given during this time, so we must do everything we can to keep it, and that is our main priority. In the first place, we need to focus on psychiatry now and here during the epidemic, then, and indeed now and here too, we need to put into effect the money that is in the Finance Act, and then start the 10-year plan. I look forward to that very, very much, but I cannot say right now and here when it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172738	Thank you. There is a new round with the same table: Question 14, where Mrs Liselott Blixt also asks the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172751	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure more equality in the treatment of children and young people with asthma and eczema?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429172757	Combating inequality in health is a top priority for many in the Folketing and also for me as Minister for Health and the Elderly. This also applies, of course, when it comes to children and young people with asthma and eczema. Asthma is the most common chronic disease in children and adolescents. It is the cause of the most hospital admissions in the children's wards of hospitals. Chronic diseases such as asthma and eczema can be limiting in the everyday life of children and their families, but with the right treatment, these limitations can be so reduced. Therefore, it is crucial that all children and young people have the opportunity to receive high-quality treatment, regardless of where they live in the country. In order to support targeted detection, investigation and follow-up in children and adolescents with asthma, a study programme for asthma in children and adolescents was developed by the Danish Health Authority some years ago in 2016. This includes, among other things: recommendations for enhanced cooperation between general practice, municipalities and hospitals to ensure that each child receives a coherent course of treatment. In addition, the study programme must ensure that the competences of the health professionals involved are better exploited and supported by each other. And with the latest agreement between general practitioners, funds were set aside for the implementation and application of the study programme in general practice. A status in the allergy field from 2017 made clear recommendations to especially the regions in terms of strengthening the treatment of allergy across the country. The Ministry has provided support to organisations working in the prevention and treatment of asthma and allergies. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia: annual aid of 6 million; kr. to the Danish Children's Asthma Center, which works preventively with the treatment of children with asthma and allergies. But, of course, national recommendations and appropriations cannot do so alone. Asthma and allergy are often linked, and the specialised treatment therefore requires close cooperation across hospital departments and medical specialties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173002	That is precisely why I am asking, because there are doctors who have been out saying that in some regions you work very closely with pediatricians, dermatologists and lung doctors, but you do not do so in all regions, because there are some hospitals where not all the specialties are associated. This means that there will be long waiting times and that the context of the disease will not be discovered. And that's why many of these doctors, specialists, go out and say we have to do something. So that's what my question is about. What we have done is fine, and we in the Danish People's Party have also focused on it a great many times and have been given money for both research in children's astma and for many other things. But now we are shouting and saying: if we are to do this better, there must be cooperation, and that is the formalised cooperation that I want to hear about the minister, as it is in relation to the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173100	Yes, and this has been addressed to our regions. And in relation to the status, I have been informed from Danske Regioner, and I quote: Danske Regioner has set up a task force in the allergy field which works with recommendations for the allergy area, including strengthening the competences in the allergy area. The recommendations of the Task Force are currently in consultation with the regions, and Danske Regionser expects to receive the recommendations in May. There is one reservation here: due to the work of the regions with the covid-19, the work has been delayed, quote the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173137	As the doctors say, it is ultimately expensive for society that there is not yet close cooperation in many places, because it is about very many children and young people, but also adults who do not receive the best treatment available. I hope then that the task force and the consultation that will be carried out will focus on how to formalise the exchange of knowledge, so as to ensure that the dermatologists have a focus on the lungs and that the lung doctors have attention to the dermatological, i.e. which eczema is involved, because the two things are often linked. Is this part of this task force?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173221	We know that almost 50,000 Danes have an allergy diagnosis and that approx. 10% of all children have allergies, and the five recommendations from the Danish Health Authority are: increased focus on competences in postgraduate medical education; strengthening of general practice; increased focus on field courses in allergology; establishment of allergy centres; and full implementation of agreement for practitioners. The part of what the regions stand for is what the task force is looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173300	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173301	I think I will probably ask a written question so that the Minister can ask the regions whether they are focusing on this exchange of knowledge, because I do not think it is quite the same as what the task force is dealing with. Then we'll get a clearer answer that can make both of us smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173322	I very much look forward to moving on with that. It is Danske Regionser who has the task force, and therefore I can only relate to what I have been informed from them. They have informed me that when they get the recommendations of the task force, they will set an internal process in motion and look at it. But I know how the questioner normally thinks politically, as concrete as possible (Liselott Blixt Yes!). I appreciate that, too, so let's both follow it closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173353	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. The Minister for Health and the Elderly will have another round, and this time the questioner is Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173406	Thank you, President. The question is: How does the Minister think the process has been around the opening of the white coronatest tents, which have been shot up around the Danish landscape?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173416	Thank you. First, some background for it. Test centre Denmark is a crucial element in the monitoring of the disease in society that is necessary for us to continue the gradual and controlled opening of Denmark safely. I am deeply impressed by the efforts of all those involved, both private and public, to get Testcenter Denmark up and running. The work has been hard to get both the white tents up, but not least to get the necessary logistics, crew and hardware to be present, so you can analyze the tests here in this start-up phase, which we are in. The starting point has been that we know that we will need to test many in the future. That's what you've been pushing, among other things. by making sure that the physical setup is built up by these new tents. When all 16 test tents in the coming weeks will start to be in full operation, the daily test capacity in the tents could be 10,000 tests. The capacity can be even higher, up to 20,000 daily tests in the tents alone, as always when it comes to testing, depending on whether we have the necessary equipment resources etc. These are quite earthy and maybe a little banal challenges, but we are nevertheless facing them in Denmark, just as they are in the rest of the world. The process of establishing the Testcenter Denmark and setting up the tents is clearly a different process from the one we normally have when we establish new offers in the health care system. We are in an extraordinary situation, and that is why we need to act. You have to be able to act quickly. This is particularly true in relation to test capacity. That is why I am very pleased that the choice has been made to set up the tents and try it out in the pilot phase and is now so satisfied that we can move on to the next steps. It has been and will be my ambition to keep as high a level of information as possible to the follow-up group. I also note that the follow-up group has been regularly informed in both March and April about the construction of the national test centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173630	Thank you for your answer. I do not know whether it was because it was easier when Denmark was shut down or what was the reason, but in any case it was so during the closure of Denmark, when we thought that Denmark would be really, really hard hit by the corona virus, that in our view the government was very welcoming and interested in an ongoing dialogue with the opposition, including my own party, the Left, with a view to having its decommissioning strategy implemented. And it was even the easy part, as I said, that of shutting down. This is precisely why it is surprising that when things are starting to get a little difficult here, that is to say when it comes to opening up Denmark again, which is clearly very difficult for the government to deal with, yes, you choose to keep the cards closer to the body, to change strategy without really informing anyone, and not least constantly to oversell, in my best opinion, what you are going to do. That is also the case with the test strategy in general and these white test tents, which have now been shot up around the country, in particular. The government reports that 42,000 people will be tested a day, but nothing about when they will be able to do so. Currently, some 12,000-14,000 people are being tested at national level, and by far, the vast majority of these tests are being carried out at present. in hospital, i.e. under the auspices of the regions and not in the state test tents, where the number at present. Well, I guess it's a couple of thousand tests a day if you're supposed to be really optimistic. In any case, my question is specific to the Minister now: who is it quite concrete, so what kind of minister has asked for the establishment of these test tents that we now see shooting up around the country? And my second question here is: why were the health rapporteurs in the Folketing first informed 20 minutes • 20 minutes!
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173836	Unfortunately, however, there are some things I have to address to the rapporteur. Nothing has been oversold. On the other hand, it is true that the white test tents are currently not at all up in the gear as they are planned to be, because they have chosen to start with pilot projects, which has also been fully public. And I have no problem with that. I think it is only wise to start by getting the infrastructure to work, first in 5 tents and then in 11 extra tents to get it built up as we are sure that the quality is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173915	Yes, but now the Minister mentions in his introductory remarks that it is now 10,000 people are going after, and a week ago it was 20,000 people who went after had to be tested out in these tents. Well, when is what going to happen? Then the Minister says that we were all fully informed. Let me quote the radical health rapporteur, Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, who says about the establishment of these test tents: I was called by a journalist who asked what the tents were for, and I was just one big question mark. What is the Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429173953	There have been regular meetings of the political follow-up group for Covid-19. There have been regular briefings, both in March and in April, to several successive meetings on the work to establish a social track in collaboration with Novo Nordisk, Novo Nordisk Fonden, the Serum Institute and others. That social trail is what the white test tents are. And there's really no hokuspocus in it. The social track that has been heard about is the social track that is the white test tents, which must be an important part of our test strategy, which we also present to the party leaders this week.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174043	I quote from an email sent over from the minister's office, which says: This gives you an advance information about the government, the Danish Regions and the Novo Nordisk Foundation about approx. 20 minutes issue attached press release on the establishment of Testcenter Denmark. I just have to repeat the question from before: when Mr. Stinus Lindgreen to Berlingske on 22 April 2020 is quoted as saying: "It was not a nice situation to stand in as rapporteur. I should have been informed of that.... what is the Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174118	I always try to inform all rapporteurs as thoroughly as possible. This has also happened here. The test centre has been informed of both the month of March and the month of April. I have read well in the media that you do not feel you have been, but you have been informed of this both in March and April at several meetings. Some of this has had to be confidential because we are dealing with cooperation with both Danish and foreign private companies. But you have And it is an important foundation of our test strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174157	Thank you for the question. And thank you to the Minister. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 16, and it is also a question for the Minister for Health and the elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174214	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the situation of families with resident dementes who, during the corona crisis, cannot go to day homes, day centres or relief, and what initiatives will the Minister take so that the relatives can be relieved of their daily lives again?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174233	To begin with, I would like to say that I am very aware that people with dementia and their relatives are particularly vulnerable and are hit extra hard in this difficult time. For people with dementia, common structures and normal activities are very important, but that cannot be done at the moment, and this can lead to insecurity and concern. Some relatives also experience that the usual relief has lapsed, so you suddenly stand alone with a weakened spouse or parent. This is something that is very close to my heart. As the rapporteur knows, we are engaged in negotiations on the area of the elderly, where, among other things, we are engaged. also discusses the need to return to normal conditions so that the elderly and their relatives can re-establish their necessary assistance and support. Unfortunately, as the honourable Member has said, the extraordinary situation we are in has made it necessary to give municipalities a temporary opportunity to derogate from rights and obligations, including relief and relief. There is therefore a possibility to derogate from obligations relating to the handling of covid-19 if it is considered necessary in the municipality on the basis of an overall assessment of the overall care and staff capacity. It is therefore important for me to stress that the municipality must always make a concrete and individual assessment of the specific needs of the individual citizen before deciding to reduce aid or offers to, for example. a citizen with dementia or a next of kin. So in other words, it is not the case that it is possible for a municipality to make a general decision that all recipients of a given aid will have total or partial reductions in aid. This is not what is described in the rules, either in the Service Act or in the new Order. If an aid or offer is reduced for a period of time, it is still the municipality's responsibility to ensure the proper follow-up of the citizens who have reduced their help. This is also true in relation to citizens living at home with dementia and their relatives, for example. can't go to day center and get relief from the charge exactly as the author refers to here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174443	How, then, will the Minister ensure that this happens, i.e. that the municipalities follow up on it? I talked to a very affected spouse the other day, and she was very sad and said that she didn't think it was fair that the Prime Minister always said that it was the vulnerable and weak who should be the strong all the time, because she had worn down to the sock holders and had had her spouse at home for many weeks now 24-7. That is why I am calling for a very specific reply from the Minister in relation to that. It's a huge challenge. When can we ensure that the relatives receive help and when can we ensure that they receive relief help? There's no time perspective in this. The minister says that the municipalities must make an individual assessment, but we know that 84 per cent. of the municipalities have cut down under the covid-19 and that 16 per cent. has kept the help. You could look at how and how they are 16 per cent. of the municipalities have done so. But I would like an answer from the Minister on how we can resolve this. Can it be that you can open a day home, for example? with less than 10 people, with what has to be in relation to security measures and other things? I don't have an answer to that kind of thing. Could it be that someone can come and relieve himself of the burden of going for a walk or going for a ride? Can you have driving buses where you collect a few dementias and take them out into the wild, where you meet a safe and secure place with the health measures that also need to be there? I'm just missing a positive list of what we can do. If you can't give the help of the municipality and if you can't give it relief, then there must be other initiatives, because otherwise we'll only risk the spouse going really down, and it's really, really, really sad for both the married couple and also for their surroundings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174652	I fully share the view that comes here, and I think it is right to focus on it. If there are any groups in our society that so much carry out a major task before corona hit us, it is precisely the spouses of people with dementia. This applies both to the everyday task, to the promises, but also to the enormous mental pressure and the challenge that it is. So I fully share that. When we are asked when we can get this on the agenda, I would like to say that that is exactly the purpose of the negotiations that we had last night and will have again tomorrow evening in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly via video link with the older rapporteurs. It is precisely to see what we can take of other initiatives, of new initiatives to ensure that we can have better conditions for our elderly people and their relatives in this difficult time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174749	Well, the reason why I raise this in Question Time is that it is so important for the Danish People's Party to give the support and help to those who need it most, namely our elderly. That is why I am also asking for solutions from the Minister. Is it possible for health centres and day homes to be opened with very few citizens, under ten? Is it safe in terms of safety, is it safe in terms of health? And we can't get those answers. We lack guidelines from the Danish Health Authority, we lack recommendations from the Danish Health Authority, we lack the whole test strategy from the Danish Health Authority, and that is also why I am calling for the answers from the Minister here in the Parliament Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174830	After all, I am not the health authorities, so the health assessment must come from the relevant authorities. However, with regard to the specific proposal which has been put forward here, whether or not something additional can be done in, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. a day centre, where there is usually relief and activity; if you can do something for smaller groups that are scattered, if you use the protective equipment and provide for the cleaning, despriting and other things that need to be done, it is precisely the sort of thing that will be obvious to finance and organize as part of a political agreement that helps in the area of the elderly that we are debating these days.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174910	At least then, I look forward to the political agreement really taking into account demented spouses and demented people in their own homes and, indeed, lonely elderly people in their own homes and in the whole area of the elderly, because this is really needed. I am, of course, pleased with the Minister's recognition that I have received for the first time in view of the fact that it may be possible to open day homes for smaller teams or special groups. So I am looking forward to the negotiations we are going to have, and I hope that there will be a response in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429174948	I will make a great effort and we will go as far as possible, but we have to make the reservation that we have some of the most weakened citizens, and that is why we have to do what needs to be done in the health sector in order to protect against the introduction of infection chains, and I know that all the rapporteurs also share this. We can see that the places where there have been chains of infection in our care for the elderly have disastrous consequences, and this is happening very, very quickly. That is why, unfortunately, this is the premise under which we are working at this time, and that is what we have of challenges, and that is the framework we must then fill in the maximum, and it requires both an economy and some good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175031	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl and thank you to the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of It is for the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mrs Gitte Willumsen from Silkeborg, who represents the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175051	She now has the opportunity to read the question to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175055	Thank you so much. Will the Minister guarantee that no post-schools are in danger of closing down as a result of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175107	Such guarantees are a little difficult to set out, because it is the case that, in normal circumstances, there are unfortunately times when afterschools close. And that means that if I stood here and offered a guarantee that nothing closes in connection with the corona, then there could be some other conditions, and I would not even be able to do that under normal circumstances. But I would say that I am very pleased with the question. Because this gives us an opportunity to tell you a little about some of what we have actually done for the post-schools, in fact also in common with each other, because we have made a very good package of help where we have stretched very far. What has been our aim in this has been to say that when we get on the other side of the corona, we should, like, have frozen the period when there is corona, so that when we get out on the other side, the same as today, and that means that there should not be a lot of schools that are closed. Some of it, among other things. has been the risk, was that a lot of parents would refrain from it it was our fear to register their children next year, with the result that the schools would be able to look into a year they couldn't get to hang together. Fortunately, it is a very, very small drop • actually less than 1%. We are, of course, very happy about this, because that was the whole purpose of the aid package. So it is also an opportunity to say that there is no reason not to report your children to the post-schools next year. We have found a way to get a help package for this year and have also looked into making a help package for next year so that there are no afterschools that needlessly break the neck financially. So the whole point is simply to say that we cannot make guarantees, because that is not normal either, and there are sometimes afterschools that have to turn the key around, but it should not be the corona that is the reason why a lot of afterschools close. They have an important role to play in our educational landscape, and they must also be forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175302	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I am aware of the aid packages made for the post-schools, which the government has made together with the parties of the Danish Parliament. I welcome them. I think those relief packages are really good. But I still think that there are some parents who wonder a little. I don't think any money has come out for them yet. But what I'm concerned about here is that safety around the schools, in terms of what form they can start up with and what opportunities they have next year. I am afraid that there are families who choose not to send their young people to post-school after the summer break because they may be worried about what kind of school they offer after-school after-summer break. Afterschools provide student communities in a unique school year, where you are together 24-7, where you are allowed to cultivate your interests and where you get friendships for life. Afterschools give a school year based on broad-based education, where you get to become a whole person and create your own identity in these communities. But the uncertainty about when the post-schools can start up again, and the uncertainty about what next school year will be like, may prevent some families from choosing after-schools to be offered to their young people until the next school year. So I would like to ask once again, Minister: can you guarantee that you can quietly sign up for next school year at the post-schools, that is, that there is also a proper offer next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175441	The word guarantee makes everything jam with me, because that's not the way the world is. If you had asked me in February if I could guarantee that there would be no pandemic, and I would have said that no, I cannot, then everyone would have said: Uh, the minister says there will be pandemic. And if you'd said the other way around, you'd have stood there and looked crazy. So the word guarantee is just a strange size, because as everything shows in this pandemic, we cannot as people control things to a level where you can give that type of warranty. But what I can say is that the figures we have, that is, the most recent figures I have received as a minister, show that there is a fall of less than 1%. in the registrations for next year. This means that the aid packages made for the post-schools, which we, the Danish Parliament's parties, have made together, have been safety nets enough for parents to continue to have their children written up and have registered their children for the next school year. And that means that the apostasy that we looked into and were worried about would simply be able to pull the curtain away under the schools has not arrived. I think so, among other things. It is about the fact that together we put out a safety net that made it possible to see that there is in fact a desire among all the parties of the Folketing that we have the same post-school landscape after corona as before corona. Then I just want to say that I actually think that the post-school students are some of those who have the most difficulty right now, simply because living in the place where you go to school and then shut down is, of course, extremely intrusive in an everyday life, and going there may be something that you have been looking forward to for several years and something that the family might have been saving up for. Well, so I'm just sending a thought here to the young people who sit out there for whom this is really more intrusive than it is for most other young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175633	That is also a bit of my concern. Well, right now we have 30,000 post-school students who have been sent home. And Liva Beyer, who is a post-school student at Baunehøj Afterschool has told DR News on 15 April: We only have 1 year at elementary school. We just can't wait until next year as the primary school students can. We're scattered all over the country, and for us, this year is just really precious. It's crumbling in our hands. We need to come back soon. We only have this one year. Can't we come back? I should like to ask the Minister: will she be satisfied with her request?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175711	It is too early to say now, because no decision has been taken on what will happen on the other side of 10 May. However, I would like to say that, prior to entering the Parliamentary Chamber, I have just been sitting and approving the note which goes to the political follow-up group which has asked about this health risk precisely linked to the post-schools. And now, of course, the rapporteur must have the opportunity to read it too, but I would say that when I read through what the health authorities are now writing in relation to the risk of infection, then I will have confirmed that it was the right decision to make. However, the rapporteur will have the opportunity to read this later. Of course, when you live with each other, it will have home-like relationships. This means that because you share an address with each other in relation to keeping the distance that is needed so that the infection chains do not become too many, all kinds of dilemmas arise on the back of getting the graduate students back. So it has been an incredibly difficult decision to say that they did not have to go back into the first reopening, but nevertheless I think it is a perfectly correct decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175813	If you do not work with decimals, half a minute can easily turn into a whole minute, and that happens regularly at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175821	Thank you. Before the corona crisis, we talked a lot about the mental health of young people, and my knowledge of the graduate students is that they suffer great deprivation and feel great sadness at having lost their communities. What will the Minister do to ensure the mental health of these young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175842	I think it's important that we sort of split it up. There are some who experience a manageable lack I think everyone misses their friends now and then there are some who are seriously disillusioned, and both of the two categories will be found among the graduate students. To the first group there is simply nothing more to say than: It was terrible that it was just you who had to hold that it was at this time, in the coronatide, that you took your post-school stay. As far as the second group is concerned, where it is more serious, I would say that we have not actually shut the school system down for that group, which means that we have some opportunities to take them in and give them a normal everyday life, of course in conditions other than those which would have been in the post-school, but in a way that allows you to get a breathtaking breath from any difficult conditions that might be on the home front. It may be that your parents have just divorced, it may be that there is cancer in the family, it may be all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175931	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Gitte Willumsen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 18, which is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and this is by Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429175944	Thank you. Does the Minister not agree that it will provide more places in day-care institutions which are particularly needed in a pressured coronatid if the home-care scheme for young children is made compulsory for all the municipalities of the country instead of maintaining it as a voluntary scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180004	It is in some way a counter-productive question and a slightly hypothetical question. It can therefore be said that it can be nothing more than a slightly counter-productive and also hypothetical response that is given to it. However, I would like to say that right now the municipalities are working hard to expand capacity, both in terms of staff and premises, so that a good deal can be achieved than different everyday life for children within the framework of the health guidelines. In fact, I think it is quite impressive how this has been achieved despite the difficult framework. In relation to the specific question, it is true that if the system of obtaining money to care for the children at home was compulsory, several parents would have chosen it before the corona crisis, and then the municipalities would have planned it differently and therefore together had a smaller municipal capacity. This means that there had been fewer seats and that there had been less room in the daily offers in general. That means that at best it would not have made any difference, because then those children would have been home already. In the worst case scenario, it might even have meant, and it is such a hypothesis that it would have been harder to deal with the current situation simply because one would then have had less capacity in crèches and kindergartens and thus had fewer cards on hand compared to getting the whole puzzle going up. Whatever the case, however, the question is hypothetical and poses a situation that does not exist. That is why, in reality, the answer is just as fluttering as the question. We have no desire on the part of the government for parents to turn their children out of day care, day nurseries or kindergarten. Perhaps, especially in the current situation, we want all children and parents to enjoy a day-to-day service where there is a well-educated educational staff and where the individual child comes into a community with other children. Today, as you know, the scheme of grants for the care of own children is voluntary for the municipalities to offer. It is about half of the municipalities that have introduced this scheme and there are grants for around 1,000 children, so compared to the total number of children in the day-care sector it is a relatively limited group that we are talking about. In fact, I leave it to the individual municipality to assess whether they think it is a good idea in relation to their overall challenges of reopening, or whether it is other solutions that need to be applied in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180223	Thank you for your answer. Now the question was not actually hypothetical. It was meant in this way whether it would not be a solution if we put in place now and gave more opportunity for parents to take care of their children themselves. In fact, I think it is very, very concrete right now. Because right now, when the day institutions open, there are parents who are being told that it is not possible to have room for as many children as they would like because of the corona health papers. If the parents were to be better able to look after their children at home, several problems would have been solved at the same time, for some of them would like to use that opportunity, but they may live in a municipality where that possibility does not exist. That is why I think it would be wise to take steps right now to make it easier for parents to take care of their children themselves. Some time ago we had a very, very ideological debate here in Parliament on the formulation of a new family policy. There was the minister on the very ideological team who thought it was quite wrong to give the families more opportunity to look after the children at home. But now we are in a different situation where we really do not have to discuss ideology. We can just say: right now we simply have some specific problems of space; it is simply difficult for the institutions to live up to giving room to all the children who are going to the institution. In practical terms, therefore, it will be possible to ease pressure on the institutions by finding other ways of giving parents the opportunity to look after the children themselves. And one of them could be the option that already exists, but which is voluntary, in the various municipalities, where you let the children be cared for at home and let the money follow the child. Other methods might also be found, but right now there is a golden moment in order to develop family policy towards allowing children to stay longer at home with their parents. Shouldn't we use that option?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180435	I certainly do not think that we should decide here at Christiansborg, I would like to say. It is, of course, a tool that can be used as a municipality if you think it is an appropriate way of getting the reopening process going. It's voluntary. In fact, I think that some of what this crisis has shown in the area of school and day-to-day provision is that it may be an extremely good idea for us in here to interfere a little bit with what concrete solutions are chosen locally. So this is an option if you want to. This is something the municipalities decide for themselves. It's not something we dictate in here from Christiansborg. I think that is actually most appropriate. Then it is quite right that if I were a council member I would not vote for the possibility being used. It is simply a question that I do not want us as a society to pay people to go home and look after their own children. People can choose to go home and take care of their own children. Of course, they themselves have to decide for this; by their very nature, I do not think that we as a society should interfere in that. But if I were a council member of such a city council, I would certainly not vote to use that option. But as things are now, it is a tool. Now I'm not a council member, but a minister, so the answer to the question of whether I could make it compulsory for the municipalities to use this tool is: No, I couldn't. I think that is up to the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180550	But it's not up to the municipalities to come up with this scheme. It's made up central, if I may say so. It has been and is currently up to the municipalities themselves whether or not to join the scheme. So I would say that the fact that it is not Christiansborg who is making the decisions is simply wrong. It is Christiansborg who decides whether that arrangement should exist. It could therefore be said that it could also be Christiansborg who decided that it now had to be made compulsory to solve a practical problem. So it is in times of crisis that society is developing fastest, or fastest, and now we have a crisis that allows us to develop in this direction. I think we should use that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180631	I am completely confident that the municipalities, paragraph 1, know very well that there is a crisis and, paragraph 2, know very well that there are capacity challenges and, paragraph 3, know very well the tools available. And that means that if they want to use this tool, I am absolutely convinced that they will decide it. It's not something I want to shove down their throats. So yes, the rapporteur is absolutely right that we can take exactly the decisions we want from in here. And the decision that I and we, as a government, want to make is that we should not decide over the municipalities in relation to this. We are convinced that they are best placed to assess how to resolve the capacity problems that are out there and which tools should be used. So I do not think we Christiansborg should decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180712	But they could be encouraged to do so, and it might be pointed out that this system exists. Because I have been approached by parents who think they are in a very, very difficult situation. And there this could be a solution, that is, that you had the opportunity to take care of your children yourself. Another thing is that I agree with the Minister that it is a strange thing that the state has to pay parents for their own caring for their children. It would be better if we could make some arrangements so that people could do so without receiving money directly from the state. But there we have set up a welfare model which makes it very difficult. But so it can be said that it would be now that you should come up with other ideas for parents to have the opportunity to take care of their children themselves, but where it is not necessarily a payment directly from the state, but by other means. Would the Minister not be willing to look at this in order to resolve the capacity problems that we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180807	I just haven't heard of anyone in this coronatid yet, and it may be, of course, because there's so much going on in these days and weeks that there may be something I'm wrong about who has gotten no to take care of their own children at home; so, if you're going to have all sorts of schemes over, then it's clear. But in relation to a family where you decide that one of them does not work and goes home with the children, I have simply not heard that the state will then come and say no. Unless you cannot take care of the best interests of your child, you will be subject to a mandatory daily offer. However, in addition to those who are subject to a mandatory daily offer, a family is free to decide to stay at home around the children. Then it is true that if you want to get all kinds of state schemes across, it is another issue we are talking about. But the rapporteur simply makes it sound as if you as parents cannot make that decision. You can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180852	I would like to thank Mrs Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180908	Thank you for that, President. What will the Minister do to help pupils who, under normal circumstances, live in school homes because their parents are geographically distant from their school and who are currently facing challenges, because school homes are still closed as a result of covid-19, when they can complete their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429180939	Thank you for that question. I think it is important again, even though we say it many times, to repeat that we are in a completely special situation as a society, and that is why students in school homes have been sent home, as is the case, for example. the post-school students, which we have also mentioned earlier today. It is also important for me to make it clear that the same applies to vocational training pupils in school homes as to other diets, that if conditions in the home are deemed to require that the pupil is not returned or if the person concerned does not have a real alternative, then you can actually stay at the school, and that is a point that has gone by a lot of people. And there are groups of students on diets of different kinds where you are, because it is very bumpy on the home front and that is the solution that has been chosen. For that group, therefore, the schools are not actually closed and have not had to be closed at any time, because they are exempt from Article 2 of the emergency closure notice. The question is then asked specifically about the students who are completing their education, and the group of pupils has since 20 April been able to return to their education and hence their diet if the management considers that the school meets the health guidelines. In concrete terms, the latest opening-up includes emergency physical education at the school for all main students who are in the last year of their vocational training, i.e.: pupils during the school period and pupils in school practice, and also the completion of the final examination are included. Students living in school homes in normal circumstances will thus be able to live in school homes again in relation to completing their education if they are covered by the opening. In my best opinion, the problem is solved for vocational training students who are completing their education, but I am of course happy to hear if there are examples that we do not know about. We have also seen this in other areas, i.e. that some people have not actually discovered that they really should be back and therefore still have the students at home. This is particularly true of those who face social challenges. There are still a great many schools and upper secondary educations which believe that if you go from 6th grade up to 2nd grade, no one can be left, and that is not the case. If you have social challenges, it may be that your parents have just divorced; it may be that someone is cancerous; it may be alcohol; it may be other things; then you may want to be in school, even at school homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181156	Well, the reason I'm asking is that around the kingdom we have these student hotels. In short, it is an opportunity for pupils who live far away from their institution, their youth education offer, so that they also have an opportunity to go to a high school or to go to a vocational school. And they've been shut down. So I just need to make it clear: is it so that if you meet the requirements to be able to live in a school home, i.e. typically those 5 quarters during transport time, then you can now move back to your school home and resume your education when you are in a final vintage?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181238	Yes, and sometimes it needs to be said so squarely: yes, it is precisely the case that if you are in the final year, and if you lived in school homes prior to corona, then you can return to your school home and finish, which means both live there and receive the teaching there. So it's just such a very clear and square yes: you can do that. And there are given places out there that haven't heard. We are doing everything we can to inform you about the situation. And so it is just important for me to say so clearly: yes, you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181309	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181310	I think that is quite clear and quite a good report to all the school homes that are now out there. Could I perhaps ask the Minister to pay some attention to this and perhaps send a shepherd's letter to the school homes that are so that they can get up and running? Because I think there are several school homes out there that have not received that information and still do not know exactly what rules they should lean on. Then the Minister could not do the school homes and students the great service of sending out such a shepherd's letter, because there are not so many school homes, so that all the pupils who are graduates can now move into their school homes and resume their education in the same way as their comrades?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181351	They should all have received a letter. I would, of course, like to go back and check that they have, and I would also like to consider whether we should send another letter. I would also like to say that we are in the process of drawing up letters which will be sent to all educational institutions, including school homes, in relation to the group which is not in their final years. The students of departure must per. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. Because it is our experience that it is not being used to a large extent. So yes, we'd like to go back and see if the information about it is good enough and strong enough. I think it's kind of hard to communicate too much in these times, because first we shut down, then we open, and then what about rules and so on. Out there? It can be very difficult to keep up with the individual schools, so of course we would like to look into that. Thank you for inviting me to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181449	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20, which is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and there we will have a South Jutland team on the track, namely Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, supplemented by Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181507	Thank you. The 16 centres of knowledge and dissemination in Denmark, all of which have an important communication role, e.g.: Experimentarium, AQUA, Universe, GeoCenter Møns Klint and Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke, are currently not included in the government's cultural emergency package, and the Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke stands alone to lose up to 1.8 million. kr. in revenue during the spring season due to covid-19, but cannot get help. In view of this, does the Minister consider that the knowledge-edagogical centres of activity such as Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke should be able to cover their fixed costs during the corona crisis as a result of a decline in activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181543	Indeed, I think they should be able to do so to some extent, and that is why I am also prepared to have a talk with each other about it, that is to say, in the sense that I think we should take it up at our next meeting, where all the parties of the Folketing meet, and discuss it. So thank you for calling for that. What we have done in relation to these centres of knowledge is, in the first place, to speed up some of the payments of their grants, which should only have fallen at a later stage, but it is also our impression, after having delved further into it, it was also something that we did at the outset • that now that this period has gone further than just until Easter, may well be a good reason for us to look at it again. So I would really just like to give a commitment that we fully agree with the Left that there is a great challenge. They carry out a huge social task in different ways, and therefore there is good reason to look into also having a help package made in this area. How we do this in concrete and detailed terms, I would actually like to invite you to take a look around a negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181651	Well, thank you for the Minister's commitment. Of course, I am very pleased about that. This is a matter we have raised from the Left, because we find it extremely problematic in relation to the 16 knowledge-edagogic centres of activity that we have around the country and which both carry out a huge communication task in relation to our children and young people, but of course it is also part of the cultural experience economy, and which last year had some 32 million visits, many of them children and young people, who also get natural science or history or our nature under their fingers together with their school visits. If we take a centre as Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke, it is the case that 225 school visits groups and other camp school groups have already been called off because of the covid-19 closure, and the loss mentioned in the question relates only to the fact that you will be able to open before the peak season. If you take the Experimentarium, which is at the great end, and is located here in the capital, too, to say that these are institutions that have a width across the country from AQUA in Silkeborg over our natural centres at Bornholm to the GEUS centres, it is all over the country that there are huge dissemination institutions that play a key role for the information. The experiment, which is one of the majors, had last year a total economy summing up to over 80 million. kr., so you can say that the small part is what is in the Finance Act; the large part is the very large activity-generated economy that is around these cultural and experience centers. Then it is also just to say that we on the Left have a focus that goes beyond those 17 million. We are looking together at how to ensure that these institutions are also here in the autumn and next year, so that they do not shut down as a result of the crisis. So thank you for the undertaking, but also for a follow-up question in relation to whether or not we also agree that this is not just a matter of budget authorisation, but of guaranteeing the entire economy of the centres with the aid packages that will then have to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429181858	As Minister, I would like to avoid becoming very specific about how I think it should be put together. I have asked the Ministry to try to start looking at what kind of models you can make for what will be meaningful and where you somehow put yourself in the same tension field as several of the other aid packages, so there is some kind of parallelism to what you have done in other areas. But, you know, the whole intention is simply to make sure that everything does not shut down, because these are extremely important things for our society and for our children and for their learning, and that is when they visit it as part of their school work, but also when it is as a cultural offer, i.e. as something that you as parents can choose for in the amount of strange things that you as parents are exposed to and bombarded with. It has to be said that these centres provide some incredibly gifted and good alternatives to incredibly many other things. So in every possible way, we're interested in having these offers on the other side of the crisis too, of course. But I will not stand as a minister and be very specific about what kind of model we are going to make here. There is simply an open door, and thank you for taking it up. I think it's really important that we get a look at these 16 cultural institutions. And you can say: what are 16 cultural institutions? Yes, I think you should look down on the list if you do not know them in advance, because I actually think that most of us in Denmark have a relationship with them either because we ourselves have been there or because our children have been there and have got something out of participating in the different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182022	Well, thank you for the undertaking and also for the extended hand in relation to the case we are raising on the Left side. Nor is it because we need to go into specific details in this way, but I understand that we are going to take it up at our next meeting on Friday, where we can have a real debate on it, and we look forward to it. But it is also just to stress that these are extremely important institutions. So with regard to Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke, which we have then mentioned as one of the examples, we are in the 100th anniversary of the reunification of South Jutland. We were expecting it to be a party breaker now it's cancellation. And right now there's no opening date. So it is also a question of whether, in relation to the further opening, the Minister can give a perspective to the 16 institutions. When is it that they can again start communicating to children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182107	I won't be able to answer that. Well, the same is true when we discuss the oldest students. I wish you could just say to the young people: this is what you have to deal with. Because I really think we all have the easiest thing to do about that. And so do the cultural institutions themselves and the people who work with it on a daily basis. We are currently being negotiated in relation to the next phase of a possible reopening, and I do not want to anticipate that. So I really do not want to go into that further. I agree with the importance of these institutions so thank you very much for taking it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182137	Then I would like to welcome the co-questioner, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182145	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Minister for the answers that the Minister has given so far and the hand that has been stretched out. Nor do I want us to enter into a specific discussion here. However, following on from what Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby asked, I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Minister recognize that the 17 million? kr., which appears on the Finance Act, is a very small amount in relation to the overall accounts, the total budgets that are, for these 16 centres of knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182216	I guess anything else would be going against the rules of science. Isn't that where we are? It almost goes without saying that this amount is small, since the amounts that are their actual accounting figures are some others. But it does not promise what figures we are talking about. I think I go very far as a minister when I say that I am prepared to discuss this at the request of the Left. But I will not go further in the Chamber today. I think that would be unreasonable. We're gonna have to look at it all together. But I am extremely pleased that it is being taken up, and I am also glad that we can work together in the way we can on these things, because I think that is absolutely crucial. These are 16 centers, and for those who are listening, it may seem that it is very little and a small thing to take up. In fact, I think most Danes have a relation to one or more of these centres, so they have huge cultural value. And it is clear that when very large aid packages are made in very large areas, such a thing can easily be lost. Therefore, just recognising that it is very good that the Left takes it up. We did something first by advancing some payouts, and I think that helped them at first. But it is also clear that now that we are looking into a longer period of time, something else is needed and this has given us reason to talk about it with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182330	I do not wish in any way to overrule the Minister's mathematics and mathematics skills. I don't. All I want to say is that I think there may be some who are following the debate, who will be a little surprised at the amount and who say: 17 million. kr., how much is it? And that is very, very little in relation to the loss that the 16 institutions are currently experiencing. But I understand that the Minister is fully aware of this, and I will therefore allow myself to take it as an income, so that you will also know that you have to come in and at least discuss that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182402-2	If I know the Left right, I will not avoid, once I have said that something is on the agenda, discussing exactly what the Left is asking for to be discussed. Whether or not I agree with the Left is a completely different matter. These are two different things. But I am convinced that we will have good discussions on this. However, we have the same aim, because these cultural institutions are important for Danish society, and we must ensure that we keep our hands on them with the model we find together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182427	Then there is the final question from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182432	Thank you. I will follow up on where my good colleague Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt concluded. As the Minister himself said, these are not 16 smaller institutions. These are 16 very important institutions, and if you don't have a relation to the legendary land of Lejre or to NatureBornholm or to Tycho Brahe Planetarium, Experimentarum, Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke, Ribe VikingeCenter, just to mention some of them, I think that if you look down on the list, at least you will see that you have that I would also just say from the left that for us it is important that it is not just a small handshake, but that it will also be a handshake, which means that whether you open just a little or first on the other side of the high season, these 16 centres are also behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182517	I fully share the concern, and that is also why the Ministry brought forward payments to the centres, so simply to say that we know that there is a challenge with these centres. And we completely share the perspective that it doesn't work out that things that are so, what can one say, central • so for me every single one of these centers is simply core material in understanding what it is that the Danish society is done by • with different perspectives both on history and on culture and on what we are as a country and as a society. That is why by its very nature it is also an important contribution to our educational institutions when students come there as part of their schooling, but also when you as a family choose to go to these places and have those experiences with your children. So I share the perspective and am really happy that the Left takes it up. So I look forward to some very good negotiations. Thank you so much for the kick-in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182609	Thank you to the two authors. One goes on to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 21, namely Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, who has a question for the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182618	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: Is the Minister willing to ensure that municipalities are flexible and local reopening solutions, so that municipalities which, according to health recommendations, have the place to allow the large primary school pupils to return to school can allow the large pupils to return to school? And what will the Minister do separately to ensure that all schools and upper secondary educations also provide large children and young people who, due to social conditions/special circumstances, need to receive a general education offer? such an offer, not distance learning, which socially and professionally does not meet the needs of young people during the decommissioning process?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182700	It has been the Government's wish from day to day to avoid what all the theory books on crises have always written about, namely that it is they who have the hardest already, who get the hardest when there are crises and that it goes from evil to worse for a lot of people. As a government, we have had a desire to mitigate it, including in the case of children and young people, which is why we took the initiative in the first week of decommissioning to make a letter about it together with the National Association of Municipalities. We did this to guide the municipalities in terms of what the rules were for decommissioning. I do not think that we came to the end of that letter, and there have also been other initiatives than that, but it is just to say how early we actually started doing this. I just have to say that, despite the fact that we were so early in the day, there are far too few young people who are in school for everyday life now. From the sixth to the final years of youth education, a much larger proportion of young people should be in school simply because they are allowed to do so. They are not closed because children who have particular educational or social challenges are not closed. This means that in homes where parents have just divorced, where there is cancer, or where there is someone drinking too much, or where father is somewhat violent towards mother, which, by the way, has gotten worse by the crisis, children can be back in school and have always been able to attend school. But far too many people have not caught that, and this has led to the result that many, many children are sitting at home while we are standing here in the Parliamentary Chamber in a day-to-day life that is quite unacceptable and where parents are just drinking or having a divorce and where things cannot actually be made to hang together. That is why I am glad that this issue is being raised in the Left, so that we have a discussion on it here today, and I am pleased with the agreement that has been made that the school should be open to them across all these things. We need this call so much, and that is why I have also taken the initiative on a number of points. I have met with all the stakeholders this week and had a meeting with them on how to proceed with it, across disability organisations, child organisations, municipalities, teachers' associations, and what we have there. I have also taken the initiative to invite the mayors back in to discuss how we can move forward along this path. However, I am open to every conceivable initiative and initiative to knock this thing even further beyond the ramp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429182936	Thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Minister that there are too many children and young people out there who should have an offer which actually has the right to an offer and is entitled to an educational offer but is isolated at home. And that is not okay, and that is why I have asked one part of the question. The second part of the question goes so wider, one might say, on a long-term plan for reopening our schools and educational institutions for the big children, where we on the Left miss the idea that a long-term plan is being drawn up which also offers these local, flexible opportunities. For what is not necessarily possible in Copenhagen in an urban school where you do not have large areas around, can be done in a school that is located right in the forest brow, where you can hold biology lessons in the forest 2 hours in the afternoon, and thus also take initiatives that make the older children not necessarily get a full school offer from the start, but that they get some offers. Unfortunately, it has to be said that for the group that was already vulnerable and which is of great concern to us, it is true that, for many, they have become even more vulnerable during the covid-19 closure. Some of those who were not necessarily vulnerable in the past have become really vulnerable during this decommissioning, and some of them have ended up in both social and psychological distrust of the isolation that is, and some of them have professionally fallen far behind what they were before. We have just had a study which showed, fortunately, that four out of five can handle distance learning. We also have skilled teachers who have worked hard to do good, but we also have 20%, who have simply basically got nothing out of the training they have met for the last month and a half. That is why I have a specific question: who is it that assesses how many of the large pupils need a special offer? Is it the case that if at a school it was 12 per cent earlier, but now it is barely 30 per cent, then one has the right, the requirements and the duty to offer education to that group as well? Is it an assessment that the municipality and school have to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183138	Yeah. And it's the headmaster who decides on it. I do not want to dwell on whether that is one percentage or another, because it will be very different depending on where in the country we are. However, in some places it will be a very high percentage, because it is schools that are located in very strained areas, while elsewhere it will be very few. However, studies have also been carried out in the past which show that the majority of teachers believe that there are one or more pupils in their classes who have some challenges that make it very problematic for them to be at home, and that is exactly the group we need to get in and get hold of that is exactly the group that is at stake. The headmaster must orchestrate that all teachers have just looked through the class picture so that they can say that it is he, him and her in the class of the teacher concerned, who must enter and have a school offer so that they can come back in a normal everyday life where there are frames and where there are some other adults. We should not forget that it is the school that is our eyes and ears. They are the ones who make notifications, and if we do not have those eyes and ears, some children simply fall between the chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183242	We fully agree with that. In fact, if I am to interpret what the Minister says positively, I am also glad that the Minister says so clearly that it is a local assessment to define this group in relation to who needs it. I think it is important that there are such clear reports. Because I find that there are a lot of people out there who are worried about who it really is that they have to make an offer, also because unfortunately there have been some rather fluttering announcements about what applies to the big students. The more we need to make it clear that those who socially, psychologically or educationally need an offer must, of course, also have an offer. I also hope that the Minister will make this clear to the players in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183325	I think it is important that we also have a massive and continuing effort made throughout this process to communicate and communicate. For there are several who have so asked what the words in section 2 actually cover. They're just covering up the possibility. The teachers know the children they have in a class, the teachers have followed, and they have a duty to have contact with the vulnerable pupils in particular once a day. And that means that they have a really good sense of both who was already vulnerable and who has become it along the way, and thus also the possibility of stopping and saying that it is this group of students that you need to get back. So without all sorts of bureaucracy and all sorts of troublesome things: it just has to be possible to take in those students who are in trouble and that is
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183410	Yes, and it is very good that we have now clarified it. After all, the Folketing has not been in full operation, but it could have been that we should have had this intermezzo here in Parliament a few weeks ago. Because I'm just really, really both worried and sad that there have been children out there who haven't seen them get the offer that they're actually entitled to and to which they're entitled. Then there is the broad group of children, which Danske Skolelever has also pointed out: Why is it that the government and the minister are hindering them, for example. could get an offer 2 hours a week if otherwise it happens medically safe? I really think that the Minister should be allowed to elaborate in this Chamber, which is why it is that they cannot have a return perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183452	That is because we have an interest in preventing the health system from collapsed under an excessive burden of infection, and that is what this is all about. I simply do not think I have ever come across a politician who has had a wish that children should not go to school, and certainly not politicians who were parents at the same time. It would be very strange if there were any politicians who argued for it. And that means that what all this is about is simply to avoid the spread of the infection. I think we all feel that the faster and the better we can get the students back in just someday, the happier we are. I guess we're all about that in the Folketing. However, this must be seen in the overall consideration which is social in relation to the pressure of infection, and that is something that is being negotiated right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183540	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. The Minister for Children and Education has another opportunity to answer questions, Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183554	Thank you. My question is as follows: when the Minister said to A4 Working Life on 20 April 2020 that we are now following the situation with the AMU centres closely, so that we can help the courses that need it, can the Minister clarify when the Minister believes that the amu centres have a need for help?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183614	About now I think that's the closest I'll come to a concrete answer. I believe that there is a challenge and have also heard the calls for help coming from the amu sector. When there was that introduction, in fact the reason why I said it in the first place, it is because there are already some options for providing liquidity loans for the Amu centres. That means, first of all, that, if that were enough, it would be fine. I do not think it is, and that is why I think we have a job to do to find out what we are doing with the amu sector in this situation. I don't want to be more specific about it now, but it's enough about now that we're about to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183656	I'm glad to hear that. This is something we have been discussing on a regular basis, and I will follow up by saying that I agree. I know, then, that there are a lot of amu centres and other forms of school with revenue-covered business that are simply facing having to fire some employees. So I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree with me and with the Left that it would be a great challenge if the amu centres started to dismiss their skilled staff at this stage. Because we look into a situation where these teachers are needed because we're going to see a lot of unemployed people. So I think it would be a shame to lose all the good teaching powers because they are setting the flag economically. So will the Minister guarantee that within a few days it will have to be because we are facing a month's shift or at least a short time will be able to find a solution that will ensure that the amu centres do not have to sack employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183801	The thing about promising how fast things can be done at a time when everything is being done on full speed, I just don't want to. I would like to promise that I will do things as quickly as possible, I can get away with it at all, and I think it is right to go in and start looking at what we can do in relation to the amu sector. I would like to say that I believe that there are some challenges involved in this. One of the challenges, and also the reason why I was a little hesitant at first and at first, is that I, as a minister, have the hope that, with regard to the crisis we are unfortunately looking into, we will come out of it more wisely than we did last time there was a crisis, which is to say, with much greater pressure and opportunity for continuing training. I therefore have the hope that the amu sector will flourish. Because some of them have to deliver some of the training that needs to be done. This means that we are talking here about something where it is best that we should dry-shoe through for a short period of time, but that we should then actually see that the amu sector really flowers and therefore also gets revenue. Unfortunately, it is on the back of a crisis, but it is actually some of those who have to help us through in a way that we also come out wiser on the other side. So that has been the reason for the initial hesitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183912	That is precisely the reason for helping this sector, so we have that sector when we need it. However, following on from that, I would like to hear from the Minister whether she has also looked at other types of schools that have a revenue-covering business and whether she has also come to the conclusion that they need help or whether it is only the amu sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429183931	In fact, I think that is more awkward than that, because, to put it a little bit banal, how much should the situation be compared with the rest of the private sector for the things that are actually private? I really believe that there should be a rather high degree of parallelism there. That's why you have to find some ways. I do not think we have found the right way on the part that is about revenue-covered business. That is why I actually want to say that I would like to discuss amu, but when it comes to the second, I have simply not found the stone shown, so that we can avoid that there are no unreasonable conditions in relation to other parts of the business world. So it's in my world two different things. I have been very pleased that the questioner has taken it up so hard. I think that drives us towards perhaps finding a solution at some point. It's just to be honest about what I think the dilemma is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184023	I think we have really got around it, but I look forward to having the solution, as I understand it, in a very short time. I hope that will be in a week's time or something, because this is really urgent. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184053	We'll be back incredibly fast. Of course, I am happy to receive more ideas. The questioner has already come up with a few. I have checked the part about the revenue-covered business, and it is clear that if there are other models, we are responsive to it. There just needs to be some kind of parallelism, so you don't feel in parts of the business world that some people are being gilded while you yourself are facing perhaps going bankrupt. There must be some reasonable balance. And then I hope that, in relation to the Amu centres, we also have common ground on the long track, that is, a desire that continuing training should have a few exclamation marks after it in the crisis we are unfortunately facing. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184128	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Christoffer Aagaard Melson. There you can see that even a thank-you to a minister can bring an answer. Thank you so much. We move on to Question 23 to the Minister for Industry, and the questioner is Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184143	Thank you. How will the government help those growth companies that do not have a relevant reference period to document the turnover loss because revenue and costs have been scaled up significantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184204	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that we also need strong growth companies on the other side of the corona crisis. They are the ones who must help to create growth, jobs and welfare in Denmark. That is why it is important that growth companies can also receive help under the government's aid packages. On 18 April, the Government and the Danish Parliament concluded a political agreement to extend and extend the relief packages to Danish business, so that more companies can now benefit from them for a longer period of time. That means, among other things, that... also that growth companies may apply for compensation for their fixed costs for a period of up to 4 months. In order to enter the fixed cost compensation scheme, an entity must be able to demonstrate a loss of turnover of at least 35%. The greater the reduction in turnover, the greater the share of fixed costs, compensation may be claimed. Therefore, an entity shall use a relevant reference period in order to calculate the decrease in turnover. For many companies it will be a comparable period in 2019, but this does not apply to e.g. growth companies that can demonstrate high growth in the last year. Therefore, as a starting point, they can use a more accurate reference period running from December 2019 until and including February 2020. In this way, I can reassure the questioner that the scheme also takes into account those growth companies which have good reasons for applying a different reference period for the reduction of turnover. Each company must justify in its application the circumstances which led to the application of a different comparison period, and therefore the possibility in practice will also be based on a concrete assessment. It can, for example, be done. be if an entity can demonstrate exceptional high growth over the last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184406	First of all, thank you for your answer, and thank you for accepting that growth companies are also extremely important for Denmark, also in the future. The Corona crisis has unfortunately left its mark on our business community and, in particular, on our growth companies. And many of these aid packages that the government has made, among other things. With the good support of my own party, the Left, the companies are helping. Unfortunately, however, there are some gaps in the aid packages. We discussed one of the gaps last week and now we have the opportunity to discuss one of the other gaps. I still believe that there is a problem with growth companies, and I would just like to give an example from one of those companies, and that is from my own constituency. It is not a start-up company, but it is actually a company that has a number of years behind it and they have a clear growth strategy. They have scaled up physically on leases, hired more employees and invested in machinery and equipment. They are severely affected by the corona crisis and have some major losses. If they measure their turnover compared to last year, there is actually an increase of 10%, but if they measure their turnover just 3 months back, there is a fall of 65%. It is a serious situation for them when costs do not measure up to it. As I understand it, there is just nothing to retrieve for them in the aid packages because they have to be measured on the basis of the reference period last year. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is understood correctly that there is no aid whatsoever to such a type of company.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184541	First of all, a great recognition for bringing a close example of reality into the Assembly Hall; it is always good to get the reality brought close. In relation to growth companies, which we really need here, too, on the other side of the crisis, a number of different measures have been taken. I mentioned the possibility of using a different reference period than would normally have to be done if there is a good reason for this, and there must then be an individual, concrete assessment. However, an opportunity has also been created for growth companies through the Growth Fund to have the matching facility made available and thereby gear the investment that can be made for private companies. So I think we share the intention to help the growth companies, and I actually see that we have come very well around getting them into the packages, not least with • I would also like to say the middle hand of the Left and help in the negotiations that have been going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184637	I am incredibly pleased that we share the intention to help growth companies. Unfortunately, even though the government has tried to help these growth companies, the experience is just out of real life and in this right example, which I am now bringing into the Parliament hall, that there is no help to get: For this company that I referred to before, there is no help to seek in the aid packages. So I would also like to raise the following question: can we not consider giving a little more flexibility to the aid packages in relation to these growth companies, so that we can include some more growth companies? It's not enough that they can just borrow money. Well, they need to make up for the losses they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184720	Yeah, well, I think it's a good idea if our arrangements are flexible and can be used and actually are something that can help, for example. our growth companies. That is why we have also tried, with each other's help, to make this more useful to growth companies. In relation to the specific example, I think I would recommend to the company concerned to seek out the hotline within the Danish Business Administration and try to examine the matter with them and find out if they can choose a different reference period and whether it is a good reason to do so. And in this way, it may be that our common intention to help growth companies is, in fact, also the basis created by our joint intervention in the agreements that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184805-2	Thank you once again for the good answer and the gratitude. It is precisely this kind of dialogue that can help create good rules for Denmark and help the business community. My final follow-up question must be: can the Minister see that there may be a need for further help for growth companies and that there may be a need to provide more flexibility so that more companies are included?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184828	In other words, as we stand today, I think we have had some very good aid packages, good political agreements, where there are matching loans in the Growth Fund, there are interest-free loans to get back VAT, which is possible for a different reference period, so that we can better fit into some of the arrangements that exist. And there is an even higher level of compensation if you are self-employed than there has been in the past. So it is my assessment that with the aid packages we have made what is needed. And now it is so important that every company also finds out how to use it, and the Danish Business Authority is ready to answer questions via the hotline we have created and via the company guide.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184910	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. The Minister of Business will have another round in a minute. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 24, and the questioner is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184921	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is appropriate for Danish economy, Danish companies and Danish employees that some companies may be forced to send employees home with wage compensation in order to avoid redundancies or bankruptcy, when the employees could instead work, but at a reduced time, to develop the company and ensure that it could quickly get back on its feet after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429184953	Thank you for the question. Although we are in a deep, deeply serious situation, I have no doubt for a second that the compensation scheme and the other aid packages will benefit the Danish economy. The Danish Business Authority has received more than 34,000 applications for the wage compensation scheme, and this will help Danish economy, both in the short and in the long term, and precisely to enable companies to get back on their feet quickly after the crisis because they have been able to keep their employees. It creates security, also for the Danes who can then be allowed to keep their jobs and the salary they have been used to having. As the scheme is now in place, and this is after all on the basis of joint negotiations between the tripartite parties, it is already possible for employees to work partly during the wage compensation period, as long as the company meets the requirement to return at least 30%. by employees or 50 employees. Firstly, when applying for wage compensation, the company can indicate for each employee a number of days when the employee is still at work. Secondly, special circumstances may arise which require the company to re-call returned employees, for example: If the company is given an order that was not expected, and in such situations the company can of course be allowed to re-call the employees, and those days will not be included in the subsequent assessment of whether the company meets the 30 per cent return requirement. or 50 employees. It is therefore already possible for the employees involved to be called back to work for a period of time. However, the company will of course not receive compensation for those periods. The wage compensation scheme does not include any further requirement that, for example, the company: must comply with a revenue or loss of income. The return requirement therefore also helps to ensure that the wage compensation scheme is given to those companies that have effectively terminated employees as a result of covid-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185203	Thank you for your answer. I think I understand what I understand, but frankly I do not understand why, especially when we have seen that company after company has presented itself both in the public debate and with direct representations to the Danish Parliament and certainly also to the Minister for Business and Industry and called for some more flexibility in this wage compensation scheme. Just to address one of the problems that is often mentioned: there are companies right now, and unfortunately there are quite a lot of those who have no or almost no earnings, and therefore they have used the compensation scheme to send their employees home. But these companies have some tasks that can be solved right now. It could be a task to get the company ready to reopen. These could be development tasks to ensure that the company is ready on the other side of the corona crisis to be able to hire even more Danes and get even more export crowns home to Denmark, pull orders home to Denmark to support growth, development and welfare. But they can't afford to pay the employees, because there's almost no money or zero dollars in the box. Can the Minister not see that, if we still have the cost of compensation for wages, we might as well give companies and employees the opportunity to contribute, at least in part, to getting companies ready to get started as soon as they have to? And then I almost want to say, and as soon as the minister thinks it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185344	I have to say that some very fine balances have been found in a tripartite agreement in a tripartite system, which I believe the author's party recognises on an equal footing with the government as a very important institution, and those balances, of course, we respect as a government. I am, of course, pleased that we have also managed to find some additional opportunities to create flexibility for employees to be called to work if an order enters the order book, or that you can report in advance some days when the employee is at work. But to go in and intervene unilaterally in a tripartite agreement, I think I would advise both the author's party and the government to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185431	No one has asked the Minister to tamper with the tripartite agreement. We could discuss this with the social partners. To take a concrete example, it may be that the Minister will then give himself: we know that if a hearing aid is sold somewhere in the world, there is over 50% probability that it is Danish because we have a technological advantage in the field of hearing aids. Now that some of the companies are out to say that they cannot maintain the technological advantage and that if they are not allowed to send their researchers to work on wage compensation, at least in part, some others will take over them, perhaps the Chinese. And then we don't have the technological advantage when we get across to the other side of the corona crisis. Doesn't that worry the Minister? And could not such an announcement in such an important area, which brings so many orders home to Denmark, get the Minister to go to the social partners and see if we could not find a little more flexibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185520	I can assure you that I am very concerned about the Danish hearing aid industry, and I only think the figures indicate that as a responsible politician in our society one should be. And I know they're fighting a brave fight to make things stick together. We need to look at how we can solve this. However, in relation to the question of the tripartite agreement and the wage compensation scheme, I can say that between us we are constantly discussing adjustments, flexibility, if it is for pupils and for apprentices etc., and on this basis, a number of options have already been introduced for flexibility in the system that applies, and it is based on very precise balances which I respect, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185603	The questioner, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185604	Thank you for that answer, which, unfortunately, is not so positive in terms of creating even more flexibility. It's not just the hearing aids business. We have also had a company like Tonsser who has been there and say that they also need to send some of the people who develop their product - that is, what does not create value right now and here, but can create value on the a little longer track - at least partly at work to ensure that the company is ready after the corona crisis. Will the Minister at least acknowledge that if the wage compensation scheme could be changed, it would make Danish industry and thus Danish employees and thus the Danish welfare better if the Minister could negotiate some other forms of flexibility into the tripartite agreement? Will the Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185654	I fully recognise that the aid packages we make are good for Danish business and can help ensure that there is still work for employees and that there is a possibility for a continued high level of welfare afterwards. I just think we need to remember that what the wage compensation agreement was made for was primarily to help the many employees and the companies that had good employees to avoid these huge mass redundancies that the Corona crisis could have pushed over our society. Today there are more than 150,000 Danes who, because of this scheme, continue to have jobs and the wages they have been used to getting. These are the cases on which the scheme has been targeted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185740	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185756	How will the Minister ensure that growth companies, for example? gardeners who were growing before the corona crisis, and who have so far been unable to benefit from the government's aid packages, can now really be helped and then get part of the government's aid packages in terms of survival?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429185818	I would like to start by recognising the persistent commitment of the author of the question to Danish horticulture. We had the opportunity to discuss them one week ago, and now we have it again so just thank you very much for the question. And I would also like to start by stating, as I have also had the opportunity to do in the past, that Denmark must also have growth companies on the other side of the corona crisis, including in the horticultural industry. That is why, of course, I share the honourable Member's wish that our growth companies should be well taken care of. By 18 April at the latest, the Government and all parties of the Danish Parliament have extended and extended the aid packages to the business sector so that more companies can benefit from them for longer periods, including growth companies. Here it is, among other things. agreed to establish a new matching facility in the Growth Fund that matches equity or loans from private investors to entrepreneurs and growth companies. To this end, government guarantee schemes have been introduced in the Export Credit Fund and the Growth Fund, which make it easier for growth companies to obtain new liquidity while the crisis is going on. In addition, compensation has been introduced for loss of turnover, allowing self-employed workers to recover their cost losses as a result of covid-19. Growth companies may also apply for compensation for their fixed costs for a period of up to 4 months. At the same time, fixed-cost and self-employed schemes allow growth enterprises to apply for a different reference period to calculate their loss of turnover, so that they can be taken into account because of special circumstances, for example: high growth or high investment, needs a different and more relevant reference period. The Danish Business Administration will then be able to make a concrete assessment for the individual company, and with the adjustments to the compensation schemes and the new measures, I believe that our growth companies, including in the horticultural industry, will be kept under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190022	Thank you. And there is good reason to start by saying thank you, because it is true that we were standing here one week ago. And now the Minister says that there are solutions in place. Well, it must have been thanks to the fact that exactly the two of us were standing here a week ago so far, so good. And, of course, we will check whether those we had in our head as quite specific examples can be helped now. Otherwise, of course, we will come back again, but I have a clear expectation that then we will have them ashore, one might say. When you look into the question I have asked, there are also those who are at a high, stable level of growth in relation to growth gardening. And if you look into the horticultural sector, there are both here in Denmark and in Holland gardeners who are large and who were on a high, stable level until the corona crisis came. And even though the Dutch horticultural sector is somewhat larger than the Danish one and scaled up in the calculations, it is true that it is relative, that is, that the Dutch Government's statement says that they will make a package in the Netherlands that is four to five times as strong as it is in Denmark converted to Danish conditions, precisely because they want to ensure that their horticulture gets out of the starting blocks quickly after the crisis here in order to take over the market. So that's why we have to be very, very vaxy here. And if we could hear from the start of the Corona crisis here, I am glad that the government is saying that we are going to bring what is needed, then my question is whether we can now say that we have solved the first corner for those who have then grown within a few months. Then we have to solve it for those who were on a high, stable level until it went the other way. In other words, whether we can get a commitment from the Minister simply to be very vigilant about it. 'Cause it looks like it's coming. And, of course, we do not want to look at the fact that the Danish horticulture is going down in such an account. But thank you for one thing. And then we must have done something about the second half.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190222	Well, thank you. And it is true that we were standing here one week ago, and I also think that the questioner had my colleague the Minister for Food down here in the Chamber and answered some questions about Danish horticulture. And just to perhaps follow up last week's questions in this Chamber, I have been informed that last week the Minister for Food held a meeting with Danish horticulture, where we also attended and discussed some of the proposals that the horticultural industry itself has brought up. For I share the experience that, in an international competitive situation, it is of course important that Danish industry is well aware of the day when the global market opens again. That is why it is not certain that all the proposals can be accepted. But the dialogue has been established, not least since last week, when we both had the opportunity to discuss it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190314-2	The Gartneri sector, as we both know, is a large and usually strong sector in Denmark, and it should continue to be so. We should like to bring them into the future. We share that vision and ambition. There are a great many jobs at stake, and there are also huge exports at stake. That is why I just want to ask: can I regard this as a commitment that the Ministry of Industry, together with the Ministry of the Environment and Food, is also keeping a very close eye on this? So it's not a question of if, but when they report out from the Netherlands, they're coming. And what they have withdrawn, at least in the first place, is that they themselves have to cover 30% in their horticulture, and then the Dutch Government will cover up to approx. 70% of the rest, or at least a very large proportion of it. Now I understand that the Minister has certain reservations about going into more compensation for wages, but then it has to be about going in and looking at the loss accounts of the warehouse that you either have to throw out or have had a huge loss on because prices have gone down as hard as they are. Is this some of what the Minister is already going to start preparing for and which we could then discuss shortly later when it is likely to be relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190425	I can at least easily sign that we are in dialogue as a government, both the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of the Environment and Food, with the Danish Gartneri and listen to their proposals, because we actually share the ambition, as I hear the questioner has, that Danish horticulture is strong when the corona crisis leaves its roof again, and competitive on the international markets. I have heard about the Dutch model; I am not sure that they have had it unfolded in every detail yet, but of course we in Denmark look into how we can help our horticulture sector and other Danish business sectors. And one of the proposals about perishable stocks, flowers, for example, we have actually chosen to meet so that they can count as a fixed cost, and so that a partial compensation can be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190515	That is exactly a partial compensation, and it is 25%. There might be a need to knock it up on, for example. 75%, right? So we can close some of the gap there is. Because, as we mentioned earlier in the debate here, the packages that the government has now got screwed up cover, among other things. also with our help, 10-15 per cent. Then energy has come along, and then we may be up to 17 per cent, but there is a very long way up to the 70% that it looks like they might be covering in the Netherlands. So that is what I am asking the Minister to prepare himself to look into, we can say. I see it as such, and it may be my question here, as if it is an undertaking that if that situation arises, what anything suggests, then the Minister and the government are ready to sit down at the table, and then we look at it. Because, of course, we cannot just watch our large, strong horticultural sector go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190603	In any case, I can give the undertaking that, as a government, we will, of course, be following closely developments in the Danish economy, as well as in the horticultural sector. We have a good dialogue with the sector in advance. I just think I feel the need to clarify that when you can get a perishable warehouse written as a fixed cost, you can get up to 80% compensation for exactly the fixed costs. This depends on the reduction in turnover that has taken place and of which both of us are painfully aware, there is a risk that you might be hit hard in the Danish business community, and this is unfortunately also the case for the horticultural industry. But we share the ambition to help Danish business and horticulture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190639	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 27 (S 957) but before that I can inform you that Question No 27 (S 957) 44 at the request of the author, who is, moreover, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, will be given a written reply. For the sake of others, this will mean that the Minister for Culture has a less question today. Paragraph 27 is a question to the Minister for Industry and the questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190705	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190710	Does the Minister believe that LEGOLAND and the confusion of other amusement parks over divergent reports from the authorities as to whether tourist attractions may again open are due to the government's lack of a clear plan for reopening?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190729	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I have an enormous understanding that amusement parks would like to open for guests again, and I would also like to say this in that way that I think we are many who are also looking forward to being guests again, both in LEGOLAND and in many other amusement parks and zoos, etc. The government's approach to reopening is that an opening of Denmark must be done gradually and controlled, and this means that we have to take one step at a time and then see the effect of the step taken. That approach will, of course, be challenged if there is an uncoordinated opening up of activities involving many people being gathered and of activities that have been closed for one reason or another. At present it is the medical assessment that, in order to avoid uncontrolled spread of infection, it would be inappropriate to open amusement parks and zoos which have so far been closed. This was the reason for the announcement and recommendations of 22 April 2020 on zoos and amusement parks. The next phase of reopening will be discussed politically in the near future and a position will be taken on the priority of opening up in the next phase, among other things. in the light of what is sound in terms of health. When it is justifiable to open the amusement parks will depend on what else we politically agree to open, including what the health authorities consider is justifiable to open. I can assure you that the government is in dialogue with the tourism industry to prepare how they can be part of a responsible reopening of Denmark when that day comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429190918	It was only a few days ago, a few days ago, that the police said one thing, and then the minister came out afterwards and said something different in relation to when one really had to open, among other things. zoos. And that day, speaking of zoos, I came to think back at one time when I was at a management meeting, actually on a course where we got the little film about Peter Pooh. Peter Pooh tells Piglet that if you don't know where you're going, it doesn't really matter which way you go. And with that I would like to say that if you had made a reopening plan, it is not conceivable that you could have avoided different reports, that is, if you had had more control over what to make sure of when you had to report to, among others. amusement parks, so that there was a handle on what, for example, was going to happen. Was on the police website?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191026	I will certainly go as far as to say: you do not need the Piglet, but perhaps more the wise owl, in order to lay down a clear plan for how to get through the forest of challenges that it is, of course, to make a sound reopening of Denmark. I know that our parties between each other and the questioner and I share the experience that this must be done properly and controlled, because otherwise we will be turned back on, and then it will all close again. The good thing is that, with a recommendation, we managed to deal with the situation of zoos and amusement parks, and that now means that we are in a good dialogue with precisely the organisations responsible, for example. the zoos, how they can then be included in the reopening when the time comes for them. It is just so important that it all takes place coordinated and controlled. Otherwise, we risk losing our grip on the reopening that we have put in front of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191121	But again, I would like to ask a question precisely in order to ensure that you have a plan, and in relation to what we have seen in recent days, when IKEA suddenly opens up and then makes the Minister have to go out and say that it is not so clever. If we had had a more detailed plan, even in relation to giving some information to companies, does the Minister not think that such a situation could have been avoided?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191153	I would actually say that there is, in fact, a rather precise and quite strict plan, because the reopening of Denmark must take place very controlled, gradually and securely. And when then there are things that stand to open and that have been closed and actually whether they have been voluntarily closed or they have been closed per. The ban then, of course, affects the overall plan that has been put in place. And that is why we have been out to say with some specific recommendations: let us now coordinate this with each other, so we have a handle on the fact that we do not have an uncontrolled development of infection pressure in Denmark. And that is why the recommendation to those who have kept closed for one reason or another is to wait for it to be coordinated according to exactly the overall plan to which the questioner also refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191240	But it's funny when we talk about this, because then I'm thinking, why can't Ijem & fix stay open, and why can't IKEA? Is it then because jem & fix has simply not chosen to close voluntarily that they are allowed to get customers into the store? Or what's the difference? And that is actually where I can follow the frustration of the business owners, in other words, in relation to what they really must. Is IKEA being punished because they didn't just choose to keep open, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191317	In fact, I would like to say that I also understand the frustration. And it is clear that we are in a situation right now, where the most important objective is that this reopening is controlled and sound, because if it is not, we risk losing it all again. And that is why we have said that in relation to those who have not kept open and for some it has been voluntary that they have not done so, and for others it has been because there has been an injunction we have had a great, great desire that we could coordinate closely with them how they could be included in the reopening plan. And there, speaking of IKEA, we are, fortunately, in a good dialogue with IKEA and also the sector-based partnership that is in the sector in which IKEA is involved, and are in the process of finding a way for it to be coordinated and controlled, just as I think we both want it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191402	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry, and that is what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191415	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister think that the seasonal Danish professions, such as: Summer lands, holiday home owners, tent owners, sub-contractors for canceled festivals and events etc., which in a few months' high season must have a turnover that can cover a whole year of fixed costs and living for the owners, are well covered by the current aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191444	Thank you for the question from my good colleague from the Left. I understand very well that seasonal occupations, like many other professions in Denmark, are having a hard time because of the corona crisis, and that is one of the reasons why. also because the government and all parties in the Folketing have adopted this series of aid packages, which both ensure compensation for corporate labour costs and for fixed costs and also create better access to liquidity, to loans to help hold hands under Danish companies in this difficult time. On 18 April, the government and all parties of the Folketing entered into an agreement to extend and improve the safety net. This also applies to seasonal occupations, which include: may be particularly pleased that the flat-rate compensation scheme and the compensation scheme for self-employed persons and freelancers have been extended by one month up to and including 8 July. As you know, a gradual and controlled reopening of Danish society has been initiated. Denmark has good opportunities to support activity and jobs in a way that supports private demand. I believe that we all want reconstruction as quickly as is justified in terms of health, as well as summer countries and holiday homes, which of course look forward to welcoming children and adults again. But there is a risk that customers and guests will stay away because of insecurity about the risk of infection, even when the summer countries open, and families can reunite in the holiday homes. That is why I am pleased that we in the Danish Parliament have decided to extend the compensation arrangements together, at the same time as we have started discussions on the next phase of reopening. It is not least for the sake of the seasonal professions that it is important that we reopen gradually and checked, and therefore we have a dialogue with the seasonal professions on how the reopening can be done in a sound and responsible way, so that customers, guests and employees can be safe about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191643	Thank you for your answer. It is true that there have been some improvements, some adjustments in relation to the aid packages. But at the heart of the question, the Minister does not really fully address it. Now let's assume that there is a company and it's not very difficult, because there are plenty of the type of companies out there that in the course of 4 maybe 5 months will earn a full year's turnover; it has to be earned in a short season because it's something going on in the summer country, as a subcontractor or through one's own company, which is very, very seasonal in relation to customers' visits. Then it may well be that we have extended the compensation scheme for fixed costs from 3 to 4 months, but there is still a very, very high risk that the income base will be 100%. Get out of the way. And then you might ask: how much do we help then by saying that okay, then we cover the fixed costs not for 3 months, but for 4 months? The 8 months when it was the company's own earnings that were supposed to ensure that the costs could be paid, perhaps even with little business and return to the holder, have not been taken care of. I hear from more and more in the seasonal industry, which may be a little bigger than I was expecting, who says: Well, that's fine; we can make it through the summer, but what about autumn and winter when the relief packages are closed? How does the Minister feel they should be able to cope? How are the existing aid packages a good enough response to them when they have to cope with the current situation, where, hopefully, when it becomes possible, they will be able to open up again, even if it is perhaps only for someone next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191838	I fully recognise that it is a very, very difficult situation to face, not least if you are seasonal in a profession where, as it were, earnings are taken home over the summer season. There it is in our schemes, which we have made together, that the fall in turnover is measured on the basis of the same season last year. And that means that if last year's summer season is the one you reflect up against, you will very quickly have a very sharp fall in your turnover this year, which qualifies you to enter the high tariffs in relation to fixed costs, i.e. how much a percentage you can get compensated there. If you are a less self-employed person, you are also above the thresholds that make you come in and get compensation for the lost turnover, which is quite high, because it is mirrored up against the same season last year. It doesn't change the fact that this is super, super difficult, and the best thing we can do is of course to ensure that the relief packages work and that the reopening of Denmark is sound and controlled, so that the seasonal industries hopefully also get some of the season with this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429191949	I am pleased that the Minister recognises the problem. What the Minister describes is just not good enough. In other words, it may well be true that, when turnover is completely gone, one lands at 80% compensation for fixed costs, but that is only for the current four out of twelve months. So you get a helping hand in your high season, but the earnings you should have had to cover the costs for the rest of the year are not there. I am pleased that the Minister recognises this and I hope that we can then see action in relation to the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192026	I recognise this because, like the questioner, I think I have a dialogue with the industry here, and the industry is indeed quite wide. But let us now assume that it is a self-employed business with a seasonal company that has a significant fall in its turnover from last year to this year. There, with the adjustments we have made together, we will be able to get 90% coverage for exactly the season that will carry it throughout the rest of the year, i.e. if you are a self-employed person who falls within this definition and category. I am not saying that everything has been done and that everything is just fine, but it is a long way along the way something to be able to get up to 90% compensation for the turnover loss you have suffered, not least into a high season.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192116	The minister just forgot to say it's 90%, but max. 23,000 kroner. If it had been an employee, the ceiling would have been 30,000. And then it's still only gone for the 4 months, that is, and there I think it's pretty obvious that if you're gonna make 1 year's income in 4 or 5 months, you're probably a little over 23,000 kroner, because that's the money you're gonna have to live on when the cash register stands still, because the season is over. So I welcome the Minister's recognition of the problem. I hope that the Minister will be involved in some more robust solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192150	The government has only one interest in this process, and it's of course that Danish companies, especially those who are seasonal, get through this corona crisis. We have a very good cooperation with all the parties of the Folketing, not least with the questioner himself personally, but also with the author's party, and I am sure that we have the basis for many good discussions ahead of us, not least about the seasonal professions too, for which we share an interest in finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192217	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry, and that is what Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192226	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192229	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister guarantee that, in the event of an extension of the ban on large-scale events, even after 31 August, organisers will receive compensation so that the companies already planning and charging for events to be held after 31 August will not end up hanging on the bill and risk bankruptcy if the government chooses to extend the ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192257	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Based on health assessments, the government has issued a ban on events with more than 500 people up to and including 31 August 2020. In this context, the Government and all parties of the Folketing have concluded an agreement to extend the compensation scheme to organisers until 31 August 2020. Of course, I am satisfied with that. For it is a patch on the wound for the organisers of the summer festivals, sports events, markets and all the others who have worked hard to give the Danes some good experiences, but which unfortunately now have to cancel. At the same time, it provides the organisers with security until the end of the summer and an opportunity to cancel their engagements in good order. Whether it will be possible to run major events in the autumn depends entirely on how the reopening of Denmark is progressing, how the corona epidemic develops and on the health professional assessments in this regard. The compensation scheme for organisers has been agreed between the government and all parties of the Folketing, and therefore any extension of the compensation scheme will have to be discussed with the parties. But it is still too early to say whether there is a need for an extension. We have to go further into the reopening of Denmark before we can see whether it can be justified to carry out major events from September onwards in the autumn, based on health assessments. The next phase of the reopening of Denmark will be discussed politically in the coming period, as the questioner knows, and a position will be taken on the priority of opening up in the next phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192442	Thank you for the reply from the Minister. I would like to address one of the points raised by the Minister, namely that it is a little premature to say anything about it. That is why I would like to ask: does the Minister recognise that there are companies, for example? companies that organise large World Cup races, which cannot just say that they are just waiting to see whether they should basically start putting their entire equity on the line, that they should just look a little at how it develops? Does the Minister recognize that there are some companies which today simply have to decide, despite the fact that they may not yet know what the Folketing intends to do, that they have to put all their own capital into play because otherwise they would be in breach of the Treaty? That is a violation of the agreement that they may have with, for example. Speedway, where it is the international World Cup organisation that stands for whether something should be cancelled or not, and that is why we are in a situation where, unfortunately, we cannot just wait. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister recognises that this problem exists for those companies. Then, of course, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about what the prospect of being told is. But in the first place the question is whether the Minister recognizes that there are companies in the situation that they are simply not able to shoot the decision, but have to make it without really knowing right now whether they have been bought or sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192613	Fortunately, I now know the questioner about a factual and insightful person, and that is why I find no reason at all to deny that this should be the case, and I myself recognise and know about some of the examples and have read about them. It is generally the case for Danish industry that it is a very difficult situation to face, because it is so big and so difficult decisions that have to be made on a basis where one of the business leaders said to me that it feels like running up over a hilltop, and you really don't know what comes on the other side. Is it a steep canyon, or can you slide into the hill valley? That is what is so difficult, and it also means that we have together made the aid packages and the compensation schemes that we are talking about here that can help as well as they can now. I hope that we agree on this is a good help for our companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192705	I certainly think so, and I also think that the Minister for Industry deserves praise for having gone in and looked at the challenges that have been facing business. I would like to say that, after all, there is little difference between whether you are a master of your own house, that is to say that you can make some decisions yourself, or whether you are simply completely left to the point that it is perhaps an international organisation that can decide one or the other. However, I would like to ask the Minister anyway: can it be predicted that we will perhaps be discussing this in May or June about when clarification can be obtained? Or when does the Minister see the possibility of clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192740-2	That is what I tried to say in my reply at the outset. It is so hard to say, at least at this stage, whether we are wiser in May and June. I guess we are. Because there we can see how our re-opening of Danish society is progressing and whether it has been a success. If we succeed with a controlled, sound and health-wise tight reopening of Denmark, then I think there is good and bright prospects that autumn does not have to be so sad and so depressing. But on the other hand, I must also be honest and say that if we, as Danes, now lose or let go of the grip and the reopening runs from us and becomes uncontrolled, then we are in a completely different situation. That is why it is so difficult to give a precise answer to the questioner on that very question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192829-2	In addition to saying thank you for those nice words, I would like to say that I fully acknowledge that the Minister is doing what the Minister can right now. What I would like to ask the Minister was whether the Minister could imagine that we could sit together and then just try to list a piece of paper, what is basically of examples of someone who is completely unable to decide for himself on one or the other, and that we might try to see whether one can imagine some discussion or a debate, so that we can at least start to say when we are negotiating something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192902	I would always like to sit with the questioner. It has been a pleasant experience in many contexts. It might not be nice in the same spirit this time, but if nothing else, it could be important to get that overview. And if the questioner or relevant organizations in this field can be helpful at a glance, then we certainly have a qualified basis to speak on. It just doesn't change the fact that it's so incredibly difficult to predict what our autumn will look like in Denmark. We do well in Denmark, and the Danes really deliver in this corona crisis. Whether it can carry right into the fall is just too early to say yet. But a cup of coffee and an overview we can at least help each other with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192943	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Industry, and this has been asked by Mrs Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192953	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429192956	Thank you. Then we have the opportunity again: is the Minister satisfied with the speed with which payments are made, given the number of companies and self-employed people who are claiming to wait several weeks to get an answer to their application for compensation from the aid packages?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193015-2	Thank you very much for the question. Although we see that society slowly and controlled opens up more, I also know that it is really difficult and that it is a really uncertain time for many traders in our country. That is why the government, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament and the social partners, has made historically large aid packages, that is to say to hold hands under Danish jobs and companies, and we have worked hard to get the funds out to the companies as quickly as possible. For example, we agreed the wage compensation scheme with the social partners on 14 March, and already on 25 March, the Danish Business Authority was able to open applications, and this is a system which is very much in demand among companies. On Monday, the Danish Business Authority had received some 34,000 applications for compensation. Originally, in the political agreements, we had taken the view that 15 000 would apply for the scheme. So more than twice as many applications have been received than we originally expected. The Danish Business Administration has completed approx. 20,000 of the applications, that is to say, some 5,000 more applications have been dealt with at this stage than the initial expectation of the extent of the applications. Approx. 14 000 of these applications, which require special processing because of various errors in the applications. However, companies urgently need to be paid compensation before 1 May, and I have therefore applied to the Committee on Finance earlier today for our agreement that we should be able to pay immediately to the firms that have applied for but have not yet received an answer. These will be applications in which they have the character of sound advance payments. It is our expectation that it will be up to 10,000 applications, and it is therefore our expectation that more than 90% of them will be made available. the applications received on Monday morning have been sent before 1 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193220	Thank you for your answer. It is, of course, gratifying to hear that it looks as if there is a solution on the way with regard to the compensation scheme. But it's basically only a small part of it. And it is indeed time for some more money to come out to work, because there is a need for business to get the help from the aid packages that have come. Frankly, I find it somewhat frustrating that no more money has come out to work. The fact is that most of the companies that have applied for help have still not received the aid. There has been massive criticism in the press and also from the professional organisations, which I am sure the Minister is aware of. According to SMEs Denmark has only 2%. compensation for fixed costs has been paid. For some companies, it is quite a few days before they have to turn the key if they do not get some of their expenses covered, and this is a very, very serious situation, and it is absolutely necessary that the money gets out to work and that it gets out to work now. Unfortunately, many companies look into bankruptcy if the money is not paid out, and we simply have to take this very seriously, also for the sake of our economy, and that is why I would like to follow up on something. After all, the Minister is a little ahead of me because I am told that a solution has been found to the system of compensation for wages, but what about the fixed costs system? It is in fact here that the vast majority of companies have the challenges, and this is where there are very high costs for many companies. Then I also have another follow-up question. The Minister says that what has been sought to support the wage compensation schemes will be paid immediately, and I would like to know when it will be paid. I mean, what does a contract mean? Now the Minister knows that I have a background as a lawyer, and I can tell you that the word immediately is something that is often the subject of many legal proceedings. In the legal literature immediately means without undue delay, and a concrete assessment then determines what is a reason for a stay. I would like to hear what this means: what does it mean? Can companies expect to receive the money on Friday, 1 May?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193432	It has been paid out more than 100 million. kr. in writing. - (PT) Since the pay compensation scheme began to be paid, it is going very fast, but it does not remove the fact that the questioner also addresses the fact that many companies still need the money because there are so many who have sought it. That is why we have agreed to it today. I would like to thank the author's party for also supporting the fact that we can now make an immediate payment, which means that out of the remaining 14 000 applications, approx. 10,000 of them could have been paid out by Friday 1 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193513	I am extremely pleased to hear that, and I am sure there are a lot of companies there too, because on 1 May there will be a great many costs to be paid for rents, wages and so on. May, is joyful. To be honest, however, I am somewhat incomprehensible that the Minister thinks that the payment of compensation is going very fast. That's not how the companies out there see it. Here earlier today, on my facebook profile, I announced that I wanted to have some questions for the Minister of Business, and there were more who gave examples that things are not going very fast, among other things. a company which, on 2 April, applied for compensation for lost turnover and has still not received anything. So, when can these companies expect to be paid out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193604	I fully understand the desire to have the money paid out more quickly, and believe me: if we could have put the money in the company's account the day after they had applied, then I would have liked to have done so. Of course, we need some systems to process applications, it needs to be done quickly and it needs to be effective. But we must also remember to take out those who will try to swindle with this so that they do not get paid out. That is also why I am not saying that it is 100 per cent who have received compensation for salaries paid to 1 May, because there are some who are being taken out for a very special and thorough check in this respect. I would just like to say that, in addition to the immediate payment of compensation for wages, we have today also jointly made it possible to implement this in the context of the system for self-employed people, which is also a system of many thousands of applications. So we are extending the possibility of immediate payment, and frankly I think a lot of companies will be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193657	The questioner for an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193658	Thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that the Minister would like this to take place quickly, but is the Minister satisfied with the speed there is? Is it good enough to wait weeks? It is okay that part of the compensation is now paid immediately, but what about the compensation for fixed costs? Is the Minister satisfied with the speed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193721	I am very pleased that we are getting the pace set as high as we are doing now. Well, it's 10,000 extra payouts in a few days now... today, tomorrow and Friday... and that's a lot of money in a very, very short time. And then we're going to expand to make sure that this method can also be used against the many thousands who have sought help in the system that is for self-employed people. And then, of course, we are considering how, in the scheme that I recognise to be much more complex, we can do so in a way about the fixed costs. This is one of the things we will, of course, be discussing with the parties of the Folketing and, above all, the questioner's own party. But I cannot say today that the immediate payment can be made under precisely that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193807	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner. The next question, Question No 1, by Mr Vandemeulebroucke: 31 has been deleted, so we are going to Question No 31. 32 (S 973), and it is also addressed to the Minister for Business and Industry, and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193820	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193825	Thank you. Given that the economic wise men estimate that Denmark can face an export loss of between 134 and 193 billion. kr. This year alone, does the Minister think that enough is being done to support the Danish export industries getting through the crisis well?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429193839	Thank you for that question. As a small and open economy, Denmark is very dependent on trade and exports to other countries. But it is clear that when the whole world is hit by a corona virus, it will, of course, also be something that will put its mark on exports and also lead to export losses....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The government is working hard to hold hands under Danish economy, and already early the government focused on mitigating the consequences for exactly the export-oriented professions by maintaining free transit across borders. In addition, important export industries are such as: production undertakings were exempted from the temporary closure requirement so that they could continue to operate. General initiatives have also been taken to help exporting companies. On the one hand, temporary cancellations of turnover and income are supported by compensation schemes for wages, fixed costs and turnover losses, and on the other hand, liquidity and lending possibilities with state guarantee schemes are strengthened, payment deadlines for VAT and A tax are deferred and the possibility of paid-up VAT as interest-free loans is strengthened. Several of the initiatives are targeted specifically at the Danish export companies, such as the guarantee schemes in the Export Credit Fund, which give exporters better opportunities to borrow new loans from the bank. Specifically, the guarantees enable loans totalling more than 8 billion. kr. Most recently, a State guarantee coverage of 30 billion has been introduced. kr. for the credit insurance market. We have done this in order to support the liquidity of the almost 3,000 Danish companies that today make use of credit insurance when trading with other companies both at home and abroad. We have among other things. agreed that the price of export and market consulting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be significantly reduced. Finally, the government is also working to strengthen the internal market in the EU's future recovery plan, so that Danish companies will have the best conditions to act in the EU. Thus, the framework is created for a three-digit billion amount to be able to work in the Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194051	Thank you for your answer. It was, after all, a long list of various initiatives, which are, after all, relatively general. The challenge for many of our export companies is, of course, that if you are order-producing, you have relatively well met order books at the moment, but you have not been able to have sellers around the world in the last month and a half. The order books are thinning out and therefore the effect on our export companies is at risk of making a certain delay in relation to what we see on domestic industries. When I look at what is practically in terms of helping to ensure that export companies can continue to pull orders home, we can continue to be competitive, how they can make more efficient export promotions, that is, how we ensure that sales return to Denmark, we have made an agreement that gives 100 million. kr. this year and 125 million. kr. Next year for export promotion. It is a small step; it is something we have asked for in the Left. But when you look at the figures produced by the economic wise men, that is to say, an export loss of between 134 billion. kr. and 193 billion. kr., the minister then thinks that we can be familiar with the Danish Parliament to say to Danish export companies: Then we drop 100 million. kr. extra in the pot this year. Does the Minister not think that much more is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194225-2	In general, I think we can be familiar with what we have done. And I also hear that together we are not only the government, it is also Parliament's parties that receive recognition and praise from the professional organisations for the efforts we have made, not least because we have controlled this infection in the way we have done in Denmark. One of the directors of one of the major export-oriented companies said to me: One of the most important things that the Danish Parliament and the government have done for the export-oriented industries was to keep them open as opposed to other countries where production has been shut down. Being on the same footing with your production means that everything else is equal in a better competitive position compared with the competitors in other countries that have been shut down. But, of course, further things can be done, and we are discussing this on a regular basis between the parties. In the first place, I am delighted that we have done a great deal together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194322-2	I fully recognise that many general things have been done and that we have kept companies open. It has been extremely positive, and I fully agree with that view. I also agree that general aid packages will benefit. I don't mean to belittle it. But I'm just saying that when we look at what has been explicitly put in by the government and the parliament... my own party has been with us... we're talking about 100 million. kr. to guarantee more export earnings during the current year. And there I would just like a message from the Minister whether he is ready to increase that amount and take further initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194404	I think we should be careful not to belittle or make things less that are actually bigger. Take e.g. the whole area of credit insurance, where we now join the Export Credit Fund and secure the credit insurance area by 30 billion. kr., so that the export-oriented industries have much better opportunity to do so at a time when this insurance market is almost frozen to continue to obtain the coverage necessary to market products. That's not 100 million. kr. kr. to the bet. I think you can see that on the bottom line in a great many exporting industries, that is to say you still have the opportunity to act in a super uncertain global environment, not a commercial insurance cover, but one where the state goes in and helps for a volume of 30 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194505	I also believe that this is a desire that we have been very much in common, namely to ensure proper guarantees. And that is important, I fully acknowledge it, and that is why we have advocated it ourselves, and we have agreed on it together. But what I am talking about is that, in the light of the wise men's figures, when we look forward to such a large reduction in turnover on exports, I want more to get the agreements carried out, so there is something that can be insured by the Export Credit Fund, i.e. something that can be guaranteed. And there I would just like to express one last time the hope that the Minister is willing to see whether we can do more together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194547	But the light of hope must remain on, also for our exporting industry in Denmark • we have a common task with and a common interest in that. I'm just arresting the fact that it's going to sound like there's only bets on the bet, and I'm even saying only in the goose-eyes of 100 million. kr. It is much bigger when you count the total volume for our exporting industry, not least the fact that production in Denmark has been kept open. To value it I think will end up being a very, very large number. Having said all that, however, the rapporteur and myself have a very good dialogue on what we can do, and I am sure that we will continue to discuss the export-oriented industries. I am only responsive because the government has one interest, and that is to help our business community in the best way possible through this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194633	Thank you. That concludes the question. Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194647	Thank you, President. What specific initiatives has the Minister taken or intends to take to ensure that the Muslim Ramadan, who is now in full swing, complies with the guidelines laid down by the government for corona, among other things. in relation to distance and number of persons assembled?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194711	Of course, we all need to be helped to reduce the spread of infection and to look after each other. It is absolutely crucial that all parts of Danish society are united in complying with the guidelines of the health authorities. And this also applies during religious festivals. So just as Christians could not go to church at Easter, the Ramadan cannot be celebrated either, as the Muslims usually do. Families cannot be gathered to break the fast at night, and one must only celebrate the festival with those with whom one lives, and with the help of video and telephone and other digital aids. So far, both churches and mosques and synagogues have been helpful and have supported the efforts against covid-19, and I am pleased about that. In order to ensure that the message reaches the point, last week I launched a campaign aimed at ensuring that the health authorities' guidelines are followed during Ramadan. I would also like to say that I normally believe that the authorities should communicate in Danish, but in this particular situation health considerations must come first and therefore we also communicate in other languages. The Board of International Recruitment and Integration, in cooperation with the Danish Health Authority and with the involvement of a number of civil society actors, has prepared some good advice on how to keep ramadan and at the same time take some account of the health authorities' guidelines. In addition, in cooperation with the Minister of Housing a while ago, I launched an awareness-raising campaign aimed at foreigners in Denmark, including especially residents in vulnerable residential areas, so we reach out to those whose Danish knowledge is not so good. It's all to limit the infection. In fact, it is crucial that everyone understands the recommendations of both the Danish Health Authority and the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429194854	Thank you. I have also noticed that the minister here on Facebook a little week ago made a call to all Danish Muslims, etc. and here we are expressing some of the same things that the Minister mentions today. And it is a capitulation in relation to the very principle that Danish authorities have to communicate in Danish, that in this way they have to translate into other languages, but I understand the Minister's considerations in this regard. Perhaps we can discuss this in the next question. But it's only the language that is like a barrier that the minister here has dealt with. We know, of course, that unfortunately there are quite a lot of other barriers to integration out there. Well, there's the whole normal behavior. We know that many of the people who live in the ghettos live more in smaller apartments than most Danes may do, and have a different way of hanging out with them in kiosks, in barbershops, in water pipes, and what do I know? And we know at the same time that in these groups there is very often a contradiction with the Danish authorities, which may make you feel that, even if you really understand what is being said, you do not feel that it is something that concerns you because you do not feel as part of Danish society and feel that the authorities are some people you have to fight with, challenge, provoke, rather than listen to them and do what is being said. So one thing is the language barrier that I understand the Minister has taken care of. But what about all the other obvious barriers that are in relation to the many who want to celebrate Ramadan, and so here on 23 May, I understand what is called eidfest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195055	I can see that our neighbouring countries have quite a marked over-representation of infected people with foreign backgrounds, and I have also heard from some doctors in Denmark that there may be a little the same trend in Denmark. And I can also see from the municipality map that where I live in the West, there are significantly more infected than there are in many other municipalities. So there is certainly a discussion here, and I look forward to the Serum Institute publishing figures on how the ethnic background of the infected people is in Denmark within a short period of time. In view of this, I would not at all deny that further initiatives need to be taken. After all, we have launched an information campaign and so far allocated DKK 700,000. to come out with the message. And it may be that more is needed, because the more targeted and precise we can be, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195146	I am glad that we are getting figures from the Serum Institute, as the Minister says, on ethnicity. I believe that this is needed, as we know it from other areas, so that both here and now we can specifically identify the extent of the problem, but also in the future we can see it as evidence of how the behaviour has been different, and therefore perhaps we can also identify why it has been so. However, the Minister does not really discuss what other measures he intends to take. I mean, you could, for example. Imagine that the police should have extra resources to enforce these restrictions in the ghetto areas? I drove through Nørrebro during April and could see quite a lot of shops and so on, where there were too many people in relation to the restrictions. And it is clear that the authorities need to be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195233	First of all, I think that we need to be precise on the diagnosis before we prescribe the medicine. If we get figures that show that there is a significant over-representation, which would certainly not surprise me, it could be that many people live in a few square meters, and it could be that there are more cronys in this population than there are in the rest of the population. It can also be about many having jobs that can't be done from an iPad at home on the couch, but where you have to get into home care or as a bus driver or something else. It can also be about behavior. I think this is a very relevant and fair discussion, but I would just like us to give priority to the resources of the authorities where the challenges are greatest and that is all the resources of the authorities and that we do so in a way and with an effort that solves the real problems. I believe, as I said, that it may be a combination of several different reasons which may cause us to see an over-representation. But let us start by getting the figures on the table and then I think we have an obvious political discussion for the benefit of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195335	Yeah, but I'm not sure we have that much time. So, we have just heard a longer round of questions where colleagues in the opposition have asked the Minister for Industry, the Minister for the Interior, when we can reopen. And this is quite closely linked to the fact that the Danes and also those who live in Denmark and don't feel like Danes know how to live by the authorities that come. That is why we do not have time to sit here and wait for too long into the future. We need the Minister to have a plan for how the Ramadan and the Eidfestival and everything that follows do not suddenly turn into one big circus, where very large sections of the population feel superior to the deserters who come from the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195409	I would like to start by saying that the mosques have been shut down for a long time in Denmark, and so far my impression is that they are not based on scientific studies, but from fairly close contact with many people that there is also great responsibility during Ramadan. However, this does not change the fact that I see that it is municipalities with a high proportion of immigrants and descendants of immigrants where infection rates are increasing and increasing. I just want us to be precise, both on the analysis of how many it is, how large the over-representation is and what the causes are. It is quite clear that the information effort is an essential part of it, and I do not refuse to turn that up. It may also be that other regulatory measures are needed. But we just have to wait for us to have an accurate diagnosis before we discharge the medication.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195456	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is also raised by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195511	Thank you, President. What does the Minister think it says about the integration of Muslims in Denmark when among others. a medical doctor in Hvidovre can tell about more ethnic than otherwise in both the ordinary and intensive department, and does the Minister agree with the president of the Mjølner Park, Mohammed Aslam, who says that the residents of the Mjølner Park have missed the health authorities doing a little more to get that part of the population who cannot speak Danish? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195540	The starting point should of course be that you speak Danish when you live in Denmark. And participation in Danish education and the will to learn the Danish language and to participate in society in Danish is an entirely natural element of integration, which I would place great emphasis on under normal circumstances. The reality here and now, however, is that the crisis that Denmark, like the rest of the world, finds itself in, overshadows most other challenges. Covid-19 is a major health and economic challenge for Denmark. That is why it is particularly important that all areas of the country and all sections of the population have access to the relevant information from the authorities, including, among other things, the local authorities. information on how to protect yourself and others from coronasmite. For this reason, the Housing Minister and myself, in cooperation with the Danish Health Authority in early April, launched information campaigns in quite a number of foreign languages targeted foreigners with inadequate Danish knowledge, especially in vulnerable residential areas. And last week a special information campaign with good advice on how to behave during Ramadan was also launched. The Ministry of Health and the Elderly has stated that under the auspices of the Statens Serum Institut, analyses of the covid-19-infected are being carried out, which is expected to be ready in early May, i.e. in a few days' time. Then we will have to see whether further targeted action may be needed. And I would like to stress that the current situation with the covid-19 does not mean that the government's efforts to promote integration and demand Danish knowledge have been shelved, of course not on the contrary. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195705-2	That is also a fine answer if you had been Minister for Health and if you had not had to deal with integration. But now the Minister is the Minister for Integration and is being asked to deal with integration. So, the question is: what does the Minister for Integration think about the integration of Muslims in Denmark when so many openly refuse to speak Danish? That is the point. And that is what I think the Minister should do. When a chairman of a resident in Mjølnerparken can even say that it is a problem that the Danish state does not make such information available in whatever language it may now please people out there to speak it is hardly a European thing to say that the integration of these people has failed completely? So, when we can see how young groups of Arabs around the country throw stones at the police and generally refuse to follow the instructions of the authorities, does it not say something fundamental about the fact that the integration of these people has just failed? And when you can see that the same pattern exists in Sweden, Belgium, France and so on, does it not say anything in general about the difficulties of integrating these Muslim groups into not just the Danish but the entire Western community? That is what I would have liked the Minister of Integration to have dealt with. Because that is what, you might say, is the backdrop to the whole unhappy situation we find ourselves in, not just in these coronatides, but in general, where it can be said that the corona situation makes this today an extra dangerous challenge. Because if these people refuse to speak Danish, refuse to follow the instructions of the authorities, yes, it is no longer just a matter between them and the authorities, between them and the Danish society; suddenly it has become something that concerns us all, because it may then be they who make the containment of the infection that you want to succeed with, by following the same instructions, fail. If you have a very large group of these people who have not become part of the Danish society and who are totally indifferent to following the guidelines that the Minister and I and the Danes outside this house can find out how to follow, then it is fatal for the whole fight against disease control here. That is what I would like the Minister to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429195912	We have not finished discussing the challenges of integration in this society in full or in part. They are far greater and far more serious than was imagined, I think, when the world's most liberal alien law was adopted in 1983. I think the questioner and I can agree on that quickly. I also agree that if you are a resident in a large non-profit residential area, it is a little poor to point out that the authorities have not done enough instead of taking on the task themselves. In fact, the information campaign launched by the Housing Minister and myself has just been launched in cooperation with the housing companies, precisely so that local elected residents' representatives can help deliver the message. And a guy like him, the questioner refers to, could take the responsibility of spreading the materials we have actually translated into ten different languages, getting it hung up in the hallways, making sure that it is divided into the local section's facebook group, and making sure that the message gets into the extreme apartment of the Mjølner Park instead of sitting back and saying: Where is Danish society? Because rights come with being a citizen of this community... we agree on that... but there are also obligations. And one of those duties is quite obvious in this time, that you follow the recommendations of the authorities... that's clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200020	Yes, but the duties are not worth much if the authorities do not also have the will to link a consequence to failure to comply with the obligations. For example, it would. be enormously liberating, if you had an integration minister or a foreign minister in Denmark, or whatever they might be called, who said: If you do not want to speak Danish, then you should not be in Denmark. If for a generation you have lived on public support in Denmark and have not contributed anything, then you should not be in Denmark. You are not welcome if you are not able to also understand and comply with the duty part, but only as our friend out in Mjølnerparken is occupied by the rights part. It would be nice if we had a government that would not only be floristry, but would also put consistency behind words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200059	Yeah, well, the day after tomorrow, May 1st, it's International Labour Day, yes, congratulations.), which is about doing one's duty and demanding one's right. And I'd like to stand by that. And part of the duty is also that you learn the language that is the supporting language of the society in which you live. I think that is quite clear on the road; it cannot be discussed. Another part of doing its duty is also to actively contribute by having a job and by being a constructive citizen of society, and that is also what the government's integration policy is based on. But from there, to say that we are throwing out all people, if they cannot speak Danish, we are not in favour, partly because some of them may need protection, partly because some of them may have only been here for a short time. But that does not change the fact that that is what is required.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200140	I think it would be quite refreshing if we had an integration minister who demanded that if you do not intend to learn Danish, you have nothing to do in Denmark. Yes, it is clear that if we are talking about this still-awaited, I think, highly specialised brain surgeon who should come from Syria or whatever good people have put us in view, then perhaps one could make an exception. If they were people who were still in the labour market, fit themselves and fit into Danish society, then perhaps an exception could be made. But here we are talking about a huge group of people who, overall, just did not want to become part of Danish society. And that is where I wish we could have a minister I would almost say, no matter which party he may come from, who would consistently say: Stay Danish in the heart or go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200228	The questioner has a party colleague, Mrs Krarup, who at one point said to me: it takes ten minutes to integrate it is a matter of will. I've chewed on it a lot. And of course it takes more than ten minutes to learn the language, find a job, feel comfortable and take root in Danish society. But I actually understand what she's saying, that if you make a decision that you want to, then that decision only takes 10 minutes. Then you can become a part of Danish society. So I've embraced that sentence. Having said that, I also think it is important to say that the majority of people who come here are thousands of people every year from all corners of the world, so they fall into the Danish community, they abide by the law, they learn Danish, they get a job. That is the rule, and so it is true that too many are part of the exception and that huge integration challenges have been built up. We just need to be precise when we talk about it, and I very much do not want an integration debate about the fact that everything has gone wrong and that everyone is some nasty people who have to be thrown out, because that is not the truth. Most people have actually fallen into society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200331	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There is one more question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and it is from Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200352	The question is: will the Minister ensure that applicants for a permanent residence permit will not have negative consequences if they have been affected by unemployment as a result of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200407	Thank you for the question and good evening. As the questioner also knows, a tripartite agreement has been reached and a number of financial aid packages have been adopted. These are measures to mitigate the consequences of the corona crisis for both companies and employees. Businesses must be kept liquid so that employees do not get a loot note, which is why we in the government have also strongly called for the use of the aid packages and not fire employees, and of course the aid also applies to foreigners who are employees or who operate in Denmark. Foreigners applying for a permanent residence permit must comply with the requirements adopted by the Folketing, whether there is a crisis or not. However, as I have said, a number of aid packages have been adopted which, I hope, will mitigate the worst consequences of the crisis and are, for example, one of them. In this period, you will be self-supporting as well as in employment. And for companies, including the small self-employed, there are aid packages that can be used. I am aware that the question concerns those who would then have to become unemployed as a result of the Corona crisis, and it is my hope that, in the first place, they will have secured against unemployment by joining an unemployment fund. Benefits are considered to be self-employed in cases of permanent residence permit. I therefore welcome the joint abolition of the previous residence requirement. I also recognise that you cannot obtain a permanent residence permit if you are not in employment at the time when the authorities decide. And is that fair? And would it be reasonable if something were to apply to these people other than to people in normal circumstances who, for their own sake, are losing their link with the labour market? I myself believe that it is reasonable to reserve permanent residence permits for those who have a long-term and current link with the labour market. Of course, you may think otherwise, but I do not see the corona crisis as a lever for facilitating access to permanent residence permits. And then it is also important to bear in mind that a refusal to grant a permanent residence permit does not lead to leaving the country. You can just stay, you can find a job, and you can search again. You are very welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200606	I also believe that the Corona crisis is not a lever to change the rules, even if that is what we want in the Enhedslisten. I believe, as the Minister also points out, that we have made all sorts of aid packages, we have made aid packages for companies, for the benefit recipients, for the self-employed. I'm actually really happy about that. And that's why I'm surprised you don't make a package of help for these people too. Because even if we have urged companies not to fire, there are a lot of people who are now either losing their jobs or being asked to go down in time. And it will of course affect if you apply for a permanent residence permit because there are such tough employment requirements, as the Minister is aware of. And therefore I and Enhedslisten believe that we should make a dead period, just as we have done for benefit recipients, in order to apply for permanent residence. And then I can't understand why the government doesn't see it as necessary to help this group of people when we've helped so many others that have been affected by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200711	But I would like to start by saying that they are being helped by the fact that they are employees or self-employed. They will benefit from the aid packages that have been made. The political discussion is: should there also be easier access to a change of residence basis, i.e. for example. to obtain a permanent residence permit because we are in a situation where unemployment is rising and where we are probably entering an economic crisis or recession, which it is difficult to see how long is going to last? And to that my answer is: I see no reason why there should be easier access to a new residence. I see a lot of reasons why you have to keep your hands on employment and on business. But I think that is two very different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200753-2	But am I to understand that the Minister and the government do not even recognise that they are in a particularly vulnerable position in the labour market when applying for permanent residence permits, particularly in a corona crisis? You can imagine some employers who are now under economic pressure from this corona crisis and therefore also have to push their employees further. And I am afraid that you then compromise on pay and working conditions when you apply for your permanent residence permit because you are so afraid of being fired because it has such a big impact on your residence in Denmark if you are fired. I think we're putting these people in a very, very difficult situation. They're in a difficult situation already, and it's getting even harder because of this corona crisis. So it's incomprehensible to me that the government doesn't want to help these people too, since you've helped so many others.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429200847	Well, I'd like to start by saying that these people are getting exactly the same help as everyone else. Whether they are Danes or foreigners, they have exactly the same access to the help packages that are made. But we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths here, because if the argument that there should be easy access to permanent residence permits is that the economy is going downhill, then one could reasonably ask: Well, what if it was not a health crisis, but that we were in a new financial crisis or a new oil crisis or a new crisis triggered by a third cause? Should we then also make it easier to obtain a new basis for residence and obtain a permanent residence permit with that argument? And when, then, should we remove the soft access to permanent residence permits? Is there a particular fixed point where unemployment must be particularly low so that we then again introduce strict requirements for permanent residence permits? That's what I've been trying to think through, and I just don't think it makes sense that we turn up and down the alien law, depending on whether we're in a boom or a recession. I think the reasonable political position is that we have an open discussion with each other about what it takes to obtain a permanent residence permit, and then these are the requirements that must be met, whether you are in a municipality where there has just been a mass lay-off in the slaughterhouse or whether you are at a time when employment is in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201005	After all, we are in a very, very special situation, so it seems to me that this is not about changing the rules for permanent stay in general, even if that is what I want. One argument that I think is quite valid when we are entering a crisis is to say that education must count again in permanent residence so that we get the best skilled workforce to cope with such a crisis. What I am talking about is that we are making a break in the rules right now and here, where this health crisis is so big. And it is still incomprehensible to me that the government would rather make aid packages for the big companies than it would do for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201047	Well, we would like to make help packages for the big companies, among others. Because these people are employed in the big companies, so it's also for the benefit of these people. We are just not of the opinion that a health crisis, which turns into an economic crisis, must make it easier to obtain a permanent residence permit. Because our position is that if you are to have the right to be here permanently, that is to say the right to live in Denmark for the rest of your life and to have access to everything in Danish society, whatever happens, unless you commit serious crime, it has to be because you have actively contributed to it as an employed person and that you have a link with the labour market and you have not been on the support. And it is clear that the political argument does not disappear because unemployment is rising. After all, unemployment is not huge in a historical context, so if we do not even have an employment requirement with current unemployment, we will very rarely have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201139	Thank you to Mrs Lund and to the Minister. The minister is lucky enough to have another question for him, and that is from Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201203	Is the Minister's selfish cancellation of the handshake ceremony in connection with the granting of citizenship an indication that the Minister does not attach importance to this part of the rule book on the granting of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201212	Thank you. We were also standing last week, and the government has not changed its position on the issue of handshakes, so let me be clear right away that we do not want to roll back the demand for handshakes at constitutional ceremonies. What we are proposing, and which we are going to deal with in the Parliamentary Chamber in a short time, is that the ceremonies should continue to be carried out in order to obtain citizenship, but that the demand for handshakes should be suspended for a period of time in view of the exceptional situation. I do not think we can demand that new citizens shake hands with the mayor when the health authorities recommend that you do not shake hands at all and that you keep your distance. Nor is it reasonable for people to have to wait a very long time to become Danish citizens because of the current exceptional situation. I understand that the question put by the questioner is based on an article on a ceremony in Vordingborg which was held last week. So let me briefly outline the process in relation to that. Following our decision to propose a suspension of the handshake, on 16 April the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration sent a letter to the National Association of Municipalities and all of the municipalities of the country on the proposal. The letter states that the suspension of the handshake requirement requires the adoption of the legislative proposal which was presented and presented to Parliament last week. If the bill is adopted, the suspension of the handshake will also apply to applicants who were covered by the most recent law on the granting of the right of entry. This is what we adopted in December last year and therefore to the people who were on that bill but who have not yet participated in a constitutional ceremony. So when the Municipality of Vordingborg held a constitutional ceremony last week, where the participants did not shake hands with a representative from the municipal council, the participants did not therefore become Danish citizens. And therefore we also called Vordingborg Municipality from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and explained that the municipality informed the participants in the ceremony that they had not become Danish citizens since they had not exchanged a handshake with a representative from the municipal council. And, of course, it couldn't be any different, because that's the law. The municipalities cannot, of course, unilaterally suspend a claim made by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201408	Thank you for your answer. I would say that my question was formulated before I had clarified how it was connected in Vordingborg. The question was formulated on the basis of the information I had from B.T., i.e. that it was the Minister who had allowed a ceremony without handshaking in Vordingborg. It was then solved that it was not. But you cannot be allowed to change the wording of your questions, because they will then be withdrawn instead. And I would like to have this discussion again, because whether it is the Minister who has been directly involved in the incident in Vordingborg or whether it is the mayor who has acted on his own hand, it says something about the Social Democratic view of this handshake. I'm worried about that. It really worries me very much that it seems to me that it is so insignificant, so that you can easily grant citizenship without having this handshake. We think that this is absolutely crucial and that is why we think it is all the more reasonable for the Danish people to suspend the granting of citizenship if they do not dare to carry out a handshake ceremony. It is quite unreasonable to allow people who have not proved that they can behave according to Danish standards to obtain Danish citizenship. It was a huge achievement that we got it into the law of citizenship, not because the law is now perfect, because there are still plenty of shortcomings. There are, among other things: Too many people get citizenship. There should clearly be a ceiling on the number of citizenships per person. years. This should be much lower than what is currently the case. But it was an achievement to get this handshake in. And when the Social Democratic Party does not take it seriously, we will be very, very concerned. I do not think I have heard very violent reactions in the Social Democratic Party on the basis of what happened in Vordingborg. So that's why my concern is that you don't care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201621	We don't care. We are in favour of shaking hands with the ceremonies. I think it's perfectly natural. You have lived up to the requirements of citizenship, you take part in a constitutional ceremony, you sign a commitment to respect the Constitution, and when the mayor reaches out a hand, you obviously take your hand and shake hands, even if the mayor has a different gender than you have. I think that's perfectly natural. But I also think it is perfectly natural that, when the health authorities recommend that we do not shake hands, we cannot, of course, maintain that requirement for the constitutional ceremonies. One can of course say, as I can also hear the questioner say, that then let us put it on hold for an indefinite period until the health authorities change their recommendation. This is an honest political disagreement. But there we have it that the thousands of people who are waiting right now for citizenship and the few thousand people who are on the coming bill, and perhaps those who are going to have citizenship in the autumn, should not have to wait. It is now piling up, and we must also look into each other's eyes and ask: is it reasonable after a very long process? They meet all other requirements, they want to take part in a constitutional ceremony, they want to do everything we ask for. But we cannot ask them to shake hands when we recommend that we do not shake hands. Is it reasonable that they should wait for an indefinite period? As I understand the health authorities, it is not just tomorrow that they change the recommendation that you should not shake hands. There we have at least made the decision to suspend it temporarily so that we can ensure that those people have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201742	But I think it's a strange explanation to make. Because if you do not live up to what is required by the law, then it is not right for you to have citizenship. It's not. We cannot say that we are now beginning to give citizenship to people, even though they have not passed the test in Danish history and Danish social conditions. We have made some demands, and then we have to live up to them, and if we want to suspend handshakes for a period of time, then we cannot have citizenship. And what can happen by waiting a little longer for citizenship if it is finally so important to get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201824	We say to people: You are to participate in a constitutional ceremony. It is a new decision that we have made and you must sign that you will abide by the constitution, and then you must show respect to Danish authorities. I have participated in three of these ceremonies: one in Hvidovre, one in Herning and one at Copenhagen City Hall. It was excellent events everywhere. Festive with flags and family. It was enjoyable, and there were mayor speeches. Everything was fine. There was no trouble and no problems, everyone was happy, so I'm a big supporter of these constitutional ceremonies. But I just don't think we can afford to say to people that the way to show respect to the Danish authorities is to shake hands when the Health Authority says not to shake hands. In fact, I think that respect for the Danish authorities is that they comply with those recommendations and that they take part in the ceremony without giving a hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201917	However, I would ask you to make it clear that the Social Democrats think this is important. That's not what I get when I'm told: Well, it's hard to wait and it's festive ceremonies, and we can't do yours, and we can't do it with handshakes. If handshaking matters, then it is clear that we must suspend the ceremonies themselves, that is. The granting of citizenship itself, unless you want to make a corona-proof handshake, and obviously you do not want to. So I would like to say that I am not convinced that this new adoption will be given weight when it is so easy for both ministers and mayors to look at it big.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429201959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202000	Well, I'm not saying it's easy. In other words, when we decided to close Denmark halfway down some time ago, we were also asked whether we should suspend the handshake immediately. And then our answer was actually no, because we did not have a picture of how long the situation would last. But it is clear that the longer it takes, and the more you can hear both abroad and abroad, that this may take quite a long time, the discussion will press on. There are these people who have applied a long time ago, have paid the fee, have lived up to not having committed serious crime, speak Danish, have employment, do everything we ask of them, and who just stand and trip and want to go to constitutional ceremonies. Can we, as a society, say: it is postponed indefinitely, we cannot say when it is, it can take half and full years? I don't think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202046	Thank you, Mrs Krarup, and thank you, Minister, for today's work. Now we move on to question 37, and it is the Minister for Housing who has the opportunity to answer questions. The first question comes from Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202114	Thank you. My question is: since the greatly increased unemployment resulting from the covid-19 hits the citizens of the vulnerable residential areas extra hard, and since we grant derogations in a large number of similar areas, does the Minister believe that it would be reasonable to dispense with the requirements of the vulnerable housing areas in the ghetto package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202138	Thank you for the question. In the government, we take the corona crisis very seriously. This applies both to the health problems we have here and now and to the socio-economic consequences. That is why I am also monitoring closely how the crisis affects the situation in the country's vulnerable residential areas. Corona will have no influence on the ghetto list published on 1 December. The figures on the basis of the upcoming list have been drawn before the Corona situation has affected employment. I therefore believe that it is too early to decide whether there is a need to temporarily correct the exceptional situation in relation to housing legislation on vulnerable residential areas and parallel communities. It will also require us to have a better knowledge of how the Corona crisis affects employment in the slightly longer term, and for good reasons we do not yet have figures for that. So, in other words, I will, of course, follow developments closely. If this proves necessary, I will have a discussion with the parties in the circle behind the parallel society package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202227	Thank you. We have just heard the Minister for Integration say that the government believes that this could take an extremely long time, and I think that is further reason why there must be reasonableness in dispensing from the ghetto requirements. I therefore very much hope that the Minister will pay attention to this. I have some doubts as to where the Minister is actually standing. But as I interpret what I hear at least, that is a no, that is to say that the Minister does not think so. So I am surprised that the Minister thinks that this very area differs from the many other areas in which we have granted derogations. Has the Minister examined the impact of the ghetto package on vulnerable residential areas now? Here, of course, I am thinking primarily of the people who live there and of maintaining the difficult demands of the vulnerable residential areas in a time of crisis. These people are going to be in a very serious situation. We know that there are some residential areas where it is the same on the verge of whether there are actually problems with employment in advance. In fact, this is true, for example. in Fredericia • have been residential areas that have come in because there was just an extra available person. It was even a year before the ghetto list was updated last time, because it was in December 2019 that it was approved and made last. In 2018, however, one extra free was available, and Fredericia joined the ghetto list. Is it really a reasonable policy to have, in other words to say that yes, it is all right for some residential areas, because they have a great deal of unemployment, and there are many residential areas now, to be at risk of getting on the ghetto list? I would very much like to know whether the Minister has actually dealt with that situation and how many are actually affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202417	Well, I have to say that I simply do not agree with the rapporteur that it should not be a serious situation if there is more than 40%. of the residents of an area which is unemployed. I mean, having a community where 40%. in working age is unemployed, I think is very serious. It goes without saying that it would be extremely problematic if, in Denmark as a whole, we were in the situation of 40%. was outside the labour market. That is why, of course, it is also a problem if you have 40% outside the labour market in the Korskærparken in Fredericia or elsewhere. The fact that your mother and father walk out the door in the morning and go to work and come home in the afternoon and have something to tell is the best form of security, in that the children also have something sensible to do in life and have the opportunity to fulfill their dreams. So I completely disagree with that 40%. or 39.9%. It is not supposed to be serious, i.e. if so many are outside the labour market. I think that is very serious. And that is among other things. what we are trying to do and with which we have so far had quite good results, in other words to ensure that more people have entered work in many of our vulnerable residential areas. This is, I believe, partly because of some of the legislation we have made, but of course mainly because of the efforts of the municipalities to secure it in each area. So I disagree that 40%. is not a high number, and also in that 39.9%. is not a high number. I do not understand what the rapporteur is referring to when the rapporteur says that there are exemptions in many other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202540	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister agrees with me that 40% of unemployment is very high. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is likely to do an extra amount to help people get into employment. But does the Minister really think that it is more appropriate to put people on a ghetto list with the result that it has? Now the Minister himself mentions the children, and I fully agree with the Minister in that view. But does the Minister really think that it might be a good idea for children who have no opportunity to see their parents go to work, even to take the risk of seeing their accommodation demolished because there is a ghetto list? I find it hard to see the logic of it getting much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202620	Well, I don't think anyone's gonna feel any better either, but I think we're gonna feel better if we get a more mixed housing mix. Basically, I believe that we should have mixed housing areas where there are people who may be driving a bus, and perhaps also some who are the director or have a high salary in a different way. I think that is extremely important. That's the whole point of this. I call on the rapporteur to go around some of the areas that are implementing their development plans. One could, for example: go to Tingbjerg and see how they expand with a lot of new beautiful homes, where some citizens move in, which makes you get a more mixed housing mix, so you get a strong cohesion across the differences. This is the whole idea of creating mixed residential areas, so that all children have the same opportunities, whether they have grown up in Vollsmose or in another part of Odense, in Tingbjerg or in another part of Copenhagen. That's what it's all about, and it's about to unfold already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202714	There is no doubt that it is a good idea to look at complex residential areas with both young and old and with different types of people in. There is no doubt about that matter at all. What we are talking about here is whether people living in a residential area who are actually experiencing the community that the Minister is pointing out should experience their homes being demolished because these people are becoming unemployed as part of the corona crisis. At least I don't think that's fair. A number of vulnerable residential areas stand to enter the list of hard ghettos due to a little too high unemployment or a little too low average income. This is among other things. Solbakken in Odense and Korskærparken in Fredericia, mentioned by the Minister, who last year had 1.5% respectively. and 0.1%. Too much unemployment. Now I have to do it very quickly: because of the crisis, you probably cannot meet the requirement they were close to meeting. What can the Minister point out they can do now to avoid being hit by the ghetto package? Sorry to bother you, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202810	But there is a general fatigue in the House this evening, I am well aware of that. That is why I am not shouting out loud either, but I appeal to you to remember that it is half minutes and not whole minutes that we have. That is for both the Minister and the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202824	But I would say, as I said in the introduction, that I am watching very closely what impact this situation we are in has on the individual residential areas. It is clear that some of what has been successful over the last few years has been that more people have entered work and that significantly more have entered work in vulnerable residential areas than in the rest of society. And there is a risk that some of those who have come last into jobs will also be the first to smoke out. But first of all, I just have to insist that the list that comes on 1 December has no impact on the situation we are in. Secondly, so far we have no solid figures on how the development has been in the vulnerable residential areas. That is why I am not going to draw any conclusions yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202904	Thank you to the Minister for Housing, and thank you to Mr. Nils Sjøberg for today's work. Then it is my pleasure to welcome the Minister of Culture. She has to answer questions from Mr. Sten Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202927	Thank you for that, President. When does the Minister intend to involve the parties and rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament in what plans the Minister has for a comprehensive plan for the reopening of Association and Culture Denmark, including gyms and dance schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429202939	Thank you very much to the questioner for keeping the focus on getting cultural life into these reopening plans. That ambition and mission is shared by me and the government in full, because the whole cultural and association life is tripping so much in order to be able to open up again. I also find that the Danes lack their culture. At the same time, however, it is our responsibility that the reopening should take place responsibly, and health assessments play a crucial role here. Since we last stood in this Chamber, the government has launched several sectoral partnerships for a responsible reopening. Here, too, traces, i.e. sectoral tracks, are now being defined in the field of culture and association. I have therefore taken an initiative and here yesterday and today I have called for a sectoral dialogue with cultural life and the associations to get their recordings for many of them have already prepared very good plans • how to re-open cultural activities and associations in a sound manner, taking into account the conditions prevailing in each area. I will, of course, keep the cultural and sports rapporteurs regularly informed about the sectoral dialogue, but the purpose of these dialogues is for me to be able to play the material into the negotiations that are taking place between the government and the party leaders, and the sectoral dialogue is thus a contribution to these centralized negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203103	Thank you. It is true that we were standing here last week, and I could understand from the Minister that there will be no big joint meeting on a large overall plan for it when the Health Authority says that it is actually OK, so you know what steps to take in connection with a reopening. On the other hand, I and the rapporteurs were promised that we would be involved and dressed on the issues that are going on out there. I understand that the Minister has had a meeting with DIF, DGI and the Division Association, and now also with different sectors. I think I still have to be involved. Tomorrow I have been invited to a meeting where I am informed, but I will not be involved and there is no cooperation about it. Actually, I think that's really, really bad. I have not, in fact, received an answer as to whether the Minister will set in motion any health studies to make us more aware of where to open up sport and at what stages. I need an answer to that. That's what I moved for today. It's probably gonna be one of those days. So I am a little sorry to continue not to be involved and to be involved in the cooperation on this, because, as I said last week, we will be faced with the same issues as the Minister does on this important issue. That is fair enough, but if the Minister does not want to involve us, or if the government does not want to involve us, then you just have to say so. However, I have to say that I do not feel very involved in the cooperation on what is going to happen, which is why I cannot answer when I am asked what is new in relation to this partnership agreement, because I do not know. But I'll be briefed tomorrow, I understand. We have talked a little bit about this with the Minister himself saying that the rapporteurs will be involved. I haven't been or the Minister will have to correct me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203312	I will always seek to involve the rapporteurs as soon as I have a track record of how and how the processes are going to run. That is why I also pointed out in my introduction that those invitations were sent out yesterday and today. Tomorrow, we have the meetings of the rapporteur, and there I had thought that we should get dressed precisely in relation to what subtleties have been identified in dialogue with these organisations. It is acting, for example. about cultural productions or what we call sitting cultural experiences, i.e. films, theatre and concerts. That's one lead. Then there is something called standing cultural experiences, for example. venues, cultural experiences in motion, e.g. Museums, and of course there are also sub-divisions for sport specifically, but also association activities, and there is, in fact, also an understep that is simply about professional football. So things are moving really fast at the moment, and I understand impatience, and I also understand the desire to be able to respond immediately. But I will dress you as quickly as I possibly can, and I look forward to the meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203419	Thank you. I also saw at Ritzau some of the things mentioned by the Minister. I would have liked to have had that information before, because then we would not have had to stand here today, and I would not have had to stand here and scold the Minister a little bit beyond this. We are also aware that DIF and DGI are engaged in a major study of what this will mean for their associations, that they have to shut down very much over the summer. Can the Minister tell you anything about that? Have you moved on? And will it soon be part of the conversation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203456	It is rather strange that the questioner feels badly dressed in relation to it, given that it was actually the questioner who drew my attention to that study. That way, we are in a time right now, when hopefully we are helping each other to dress each other in relation to what is happening. The meeting I held with DIF and DGI was certainly based on the fact that the questioner had heard of this study. It was presented to me, just as I understood that they were also on their way to other parties to present it. At that time it was difficult just to make it crystal clear how we proceed on it, but the dialogue continues. And what the question is about here today is about the reopening itself. That study is very much about the economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203541	But in the debate we had on this 60 million-dollar pool. kr. For the sport and the scouts, we gave each other hands on the fact that when we knew DIF and DGI's study, we would sit down again and see if there was a need for more. I ask the Minister again: is the Minister aware that there are some figures from the two major organizations on what this is going to mean for sport when we have to shut down all summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203607-2	At the meeting I had with DIF and DGI, some figures were presented, but there were also some questions as to how and how the aid packages that were after all revised were dealt with almost at the same time as we held the meeting. So what I am continuing with the dialogue with the organisations is an economic track. The question we are discussing here today is that of reopening. Well, that's also connected. This is certainly part of the dialogue that I have with sports organisations, because the sooner they get the opportunity to open up, the less the need for financial assistance will be and, as your question also expresses, everyone will trip and look forward to our return to sport.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203646	Thank you. 39 in the same position. That is the Minister for Culture, and the questioner is Mr. Sten Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203652	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that the event pool is now sufficient to help the events that need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203704	The event pool is formally over in the Ministry of Business, but the Ministry of Culture and Culture and Sport rapporteurs have been involved in the negotiations which, fortunately, ended on 18 April with an agreement between the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament on the extension and extension of the compensation scheme for organisers. It has been extended to cover the period from 6 March to 31 August. The scheme now includes events with more than 350 participants and has also been extended to include several types of events. The scheme, for example, is: extended to include primarily publicly funded major cultural and sporting events. I am glad that we have made this extension and extension, because I believe that together we have created a better framework and more security for those organisers of major events who have not known whether they could recover their losses. I believe that, with this extension and extension, we are now holding our hands better under those who are hit hard when major events are cancelled. It includes a wide range of players, venues, festivals and cultural and sporting events, but we have also ensured help for many organisers and organisations who cannot get help through the event pool. 50 million has been set aside. kr. in exceptional assistance to local sports associations, scout associations and other associations under DUF, DGI and DIF, so that they can continue to do activities for many Danes and maintain local communities, both during and on the other side of the crisis. But together we have also ensured that art and culture will get through the crisis with as few scratches as possible, so that on the other side of the crisis we also have a strong and vibrant cultural and association life to return to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203853	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429203854	Thank you very much and thank you for your answer, Minister. I share your enthusiasm or joy that we are getting much wider around, in that it includes both several events, the length of them and the number of participants. I very much welcome that too. After all, I am aware that this is an interface between the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Culture, and there are a lot of people in cultural life that we need to help. But there is still some uncertainty out there as regards some of the events and performances, among others. Those who last up to 4 weeks. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she can explain how the compensation scheme in the arrangement pool is to be understood with regard to this four-week limit. Does this mean that you can apply for events of up to 4 weeks and no longer, and that if you have an event or performance lasting 4 weeks and 1 or 2 days, you cannot search the event pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204002	There have been very different talk back and forth about this, so I understand the question perfectly well. Because it's so incredibly difficult in this amazing cultural life, which has all sorts of variations, to get it all wrapped up in one scheme. That is why the arrangement arrangement should not be seen in isolation either. This emergency package has also been made for culture and sport and all sorts of other things, such as: is about giving special help to what we call seasonal professional performing arts. It is precisely in order to accommodate an even larger part of the events that may run over longer periods of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204046	Some of the cultural institutions I'm talking about here, which seem to fall between some chairs or where there are some holes. The New Theatre and One and Only Musical Theatre, which has these performances that last longer than 4 weeks. They cannot search the event pool. Can they search the emergency pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204110	After all, it is difficult for me to stand here under ministerial responsibility and deal with matters at institutional level. But now we have three great musical-producing theaters... Fredericia Theatre, The New Theatre and One and Only Musical Theatre... and there was a mutual understanding among the parties that made this deal that we had to ensure that there were also companies that could do professional musicals afterwards. And we're working on a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204139	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204141	Thank you. I am aware that we cannot stand here on a case-by-case basis; I fully agree with that. But there will be some performances or some shows that are not included in any of the pools. Will the Minister be willing to call us as negotiating partners to pick it up when we are told whether there will be anyone here who simply cannot search anywhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204210	After all, the audit of the event pool and the emergency pool of the Ministry of Culture have been negotiated by the party leaders on 18 April, so I will not call the big negotiations because they were somewhere else. But it is clear that I have promised and I will keep that promise to include the rapporteurs, so that you have the assurance that I will keep the things I promised. For example: that we would make sure that there were also people who could produce professional musicals and that we should take good care of our circus world and other parts of cultural life that are really pressured and find it difficult to fit into the general aid pools. I will try to ensure that in announcements and documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204258	Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. Then we can move on to Question No. 40, which is also for the Minister of Culture. The questioner is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204318	Thank you. What does the Minister think of the Director of the Aalborg Zoo as a result of the postponement of the reopening, saying that they are now in such a serious financial situation that they must, in the extreme, consider which animals they may put to death?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204337	Well, I mean something about it and feel a great deal about it, because it would be awful if this crisis were to bring some of our zoos and aquariums into this kind of thinking for that matter. This is also the reason why zoological facilities and aquariums have been given a special scheme, in fact, as some of the first ones in the Ministry of Culture, where, in relation to the compensation scheme for fixed costs which cover the normal fixed costs, special fixed costs are also included for keeping animals, where they can cover the wage costs of staff who are critical of the animals' well-being. The zoos have always been included in the general aid packages, and a broad political consensus has been reached, among other things. among the author's party and the government, but also the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, that the general aid packages are now being extended by one month so that they run until and including 8 July. So I fully understand and agree with the questioner that the zoos are in a difficult economic situation and I hope that with these general aid packages and this special scheme we can address. In addition, however, an additional special emergency pool of this kind has also been provided in the Ministry of Culture's area, where the zoos receiving operating grants from the Ministry of Culture, including among others. Aalborg Zoo, covered. In other words, if they have exhausted all other options and still need help, then there is in fact a third extra emergency pool that has been agreed between the government and a broad majority in the Folketing. That is why it is my view that we do not have such considerations about killing animals; we also have the benefit of experiencing animals in zoos.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204538	Now it is the case that Aalborg Zoo, like the other zoos in the country, has had to bite the sour apple, if you can put it that way, and postpone the otherwise planned opening on 1 May in fact indefinitely. And in several media the director has expressed his rather great frustrations and expressed that the government's course is somewhat fluttering, and that it actually has some quite major consequences for Aalborg Zoo that they do not know when they can open. He has pointed out that the closure means a loss of revenue in millions, as their best months of earnings are June, July and August, and that they now have the prospect of losing no less than 22 million. kr. in circulation during this period, i.e. only for the three months. It is the turnover that actually makes them have money in the box for the costs in addition. Because, as the Minister probably already knows, zoos have a lot of fixed costs, because regardless of the corona crisis or not, animals have to be fed, and in this respect he has said that an unresolved situation surrounding the reopening can have quite major consequences, and at worst lead to the killing of some animals. Yes, aid packages have been made, and I would like to commend the Minister for that. But if you look at them a little, there are others. This one for $48 million. kr., which is to be distributed over a 3-month period between the country's 15 largest animal parks, aquariums and zoos, then perhaps it is just a Band-Aid on the wound. So that's one thing. The second point is that it will only apply until 8 June. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is considering extending the current compensation scheme so that it runs beyond 8 June, which is currently the point of intersection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204737-2	I would like to say that I am following the situation closely. This is very much connected with, as the questioner also says, when this reopening will come. Perhaps a few weeks ago I was really concerned that the Danes would also dare to come together, but we can see that: the Danes are expressing their desire and their longing to return with an ever greater voice. So it is all the more important that we treat this reopening really carefully, so we stick to our good health figures. This is among other things. The reason why yesterday the Minister for Industry, Employment and I had an initial meeting with a number of business organisations and employers' organisations to initiate the dialogue, the sectoral track, on a responsible reopening of, among other things, the social dialogue. the zoological facilities. It was the inter-branch organization of the zoos that took part in the meeting and it was agreed that the Ministry of Culture will continue the dialogue with DAZA on how the reopening, where appropriate, can be done in a sound manner. And that is what we are following, also in relation to the question of the time horizon for aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204847	I'm actually very happy to hear that. Because, as I heard, and the Minister has to make that clear, or whatever that is called, to me is correct, i.e. if I understand it correctly, then it may be that if it is necessary, it will be extended beyond 8 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204908	It was a very short question; it is the shortest I have tried so far, but all honour and respect for it. The very short answer is that this situation does not have such a finished time perspective, and that is why, unfortunately, the answer is always that we follow it, and we will do everything we can to keep our hands under the zoos and aquariums and the rest of Denmark's cultural life. But the opening plans and the economy must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429204943	So will the Minister call Parliament's parties for new negotiations to provide further clarity on the zoos and provide additional financial support so that they do not run the risk of bankruptcy, and so that no animals are killed because of the economic consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205003	At this stage, I believe that with the aid packages I outlined the general, the special emergency package and this pool, which really is really an emergency pool and which, of course, does not have an economic ceiling, but is simply there to ensure that the institutions are living there is a great opportunity to help the zoos and aquariums through this situation with the time perspective that we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205026	Thank you to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. We move on to Question 41, and there the Minister for Culture has the enormous pleasure of having another question, Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205044	Thank you, Mr President. What is the Minister's view of introducing library books as takeaway as a nationwide option in the same successful and health-carely sound way seen in different parts of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205107	I think it is very good to feel how libraries, like many other parts of social and cultural life, are tripping to get started in whole or in part and are therefore also developing ideas on how to do it in a health-friendly way, as I see the issue as a very good example of. As a minister, I guess I still have to say before I think it's just a great idea that we're in the process of evaluating all these ideas against each other. And that's also why libraries are invited to these sectoral dialogues on how, in relation to the exact way you physically relate to each other in a library, it makes it healthier. And there I promise that the idea expressed here by the honourable Member will also be part of the dialogue. That dialogue must then be included in the central negotiations between the party leaders and the government on precisely the overall assessment of how to reopen society. The Government's call is still gone for the status quo to be maintained as far as possible, which means that public employees have been sent home, with very few exceptions, and that is, unfortunately, also the case in the field of library activities. So I am definitely counting on • compared to the places where it seems that it is experimenting with this • that the municipalities and libraries respect the guidelines as laid down by the government and the health authorities. When, at some point, it becomes the turn of libraries to reopen in such a general way, I can imagine that this could be a way of minimising physical contact. But I cannot say at this stage whether it is possible, when it will be possible and what specific scenarios it could be included in. However, as I said at the beginning, I am very pleased to have these suggestions on how libraries can be reopened.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205303	Thank you. I would like to start by taking this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation and to say that I look forward to the further progress. Then I would like to say that everything I say here afterwards is, of course, something where it has to be sound in terms of health. Well, we keep saying that, and that is why I say it once more, and I think so in relation to everything else I say for the rest of the time. And then it would be easier if we had such an overall plan. It can then be said that then the minister did not have to answer a great many of these questions over and over again if that is to say, it was healthy. But libraries have a special role to play in society. I remember my own time when I was young and sat in a library hung in a corner and the librarian came and poked me on the shoulder and said: Now we close. It is, of course, the role that libraries have played and it helps to create a cohesion in society. So if you could just get somewhere along the way and the minister could convey the message that there are ways to do this, then you might come a little further a little faster. So how important is this really for the Social Democracy and the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205427	After all, the government's call is to maintain the status quo, so that we do not put our health-related good things at risk. But I think it is a really, very good proposal to take part in the dialogue, so that it might be a way for libraries to open up quietly. But that is precisely the overall plan that the questioner is also asking for. I also want it, it wants the government, and that is what we are debating, the government and the parties, including the party of the questioner, at party leader level. So I will work to get cultural life as best as possible into the negotiations with some concrete suggestions on how to do that. And there's this one of the examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205510	Thank you. I would actually like to congratulate the Minister on that. I know that there is also a heart at the other end, and that is why the other half of this goes on to say that the Danish Library Association has actually proposed a national reading strategy, where exactly this thing about getting the books out to the people is super important. If you look at the other side of this crisis, you could say that the focus on this has become extra important. Is it the case that the Minister would like to include the Library Association's reading strategy in future work?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205547	In fact, at a time before this, I took part in the launch of some of the reflections on the reading strategy. And one of the things that struck me most may have been that for many years we have talked a lot about remembering with the big index finger to read at least 20 minutes a day. But what made you and me sit in the libraries until we were kicked out wasn't the index finger. Well, that's the spirit of reading, isn't it? And that is one of the things that I wrote behind my ear at least and also is why I am really happy that libraries, even though they have been shut down, have been super good at being present with e-books and in other ways supporting that readability should be there, also during corona. I look forward to getting this overall plan, where cultural life can also start to plan how they become part of the Danes' lives. They're very missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205638	Thank you. Can the Minister then just explain what needs to be done in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205643	What needs to be done in concrete terms is that libraries come well prepared. I am quite convinced that libraries will come up with a suggestion as to how these guidelines can be drawn up so that we can play it into the key negotiations. Because the more precise and the more concrete all cultural institutions and not just libraries can tell how they want to ensure that when people are let in, they keep the number down, people keep the distance and provide good hand hygiene, the better I imagine they will be in the overall assessment of when they can become part of the reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205727	Thank you. We shall now move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 42, which is also for the Minister for Culture, and the questioner is also Mr. Kim Valentin from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205747	Thank you, President. Is it the Minister's intention that theatres, as in the case of Aveny-T, which are developing into a national scene of youth culture, should fall outside the government's aid to cultural institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205759	My assessment is that Aveny-T with performances such as... As a result of this, Aveny-T was awarded a four-year development grant in the years 2019-2022 as part of the voting agreement in the field of performing arts, which was concluded in March 2019. In this vote agreement, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties chose to support the work of Aveny-T separately in the field of youth. So, following on from the political logic and the broad majority behind this agreement, I think it would make sense that, because of this special status, Aveny-T will also be equal to the theatres covered by the emergency pool of the Ministry of Culture, because they receive operating grants, not development grants, but regional theater grants, because it is part of the vote agreement on performing arts. Technically and purely administratively, the Ministry of Culture is still working to formulate it, so it may well be that I cannot present it tomorrow at the rapporteur's meeting. But that is what the intention is, because Aveny-T has shown that they can do something special, a political consensus has been established on that, and we must pursue that logic now that we have to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429205924	Thank you. I am very pleased about that, and it almost seems like a commitment. Even if we do not have to deal with matters here I am well aware of that, it is nice to hear that the Minister is so far on those considerations. I am also sure that Aveny-T will be super happy to hear the Minister's goodwill, because it is precisely a theatre which has so much been the banner of culture in Denmark. However, will a change in the text from where there is today an operating grant from the Ministry of Culture, to the operating and/or development grant from the Ministry of Culture, receive a theatre such as Aveny-T under this framework for the award of grants? Is that exactly what the Minister thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210028	As I said, we are still working away on the precise wording so that we follow the logic of the vote agreement. So I cannot stand here and say yes to exactly what the questioner says. But that is the logic of saying that Aveny-T has already been given a special status in the voting agreement, which is about regional theatres, so ergo we seek to equate them, so that if, through the general aid pools, they still need some extra help, they will have the opportunity to seek the emergency pool in the area of the Ministry of Culture where, if you can prove that you have done everything possible to manage, but still need help not have to go bankrupt as an institution, you can get the necessary help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210111	Thank you. Some of the uncertainty surrounding the agreements has been that the text that has been drawn up in the agreements has not been clear enough. In other words, one simply could not understand what it was saying and therefore there have been many who have been on really, really insecure grounds, and that is still the case for a lot of people out there. If you talk to them, you will understand that it may well be that they could get under it, but that they do not actually know it, and therefore they are super uncertain. Is this an uncertainty which the Minister will attach great importance to clarifying in the near future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210148	There is an uncertainty that I have certainly encountered, and I can understand it somewhere. For we have also become wiser as politicians along the way, in the sense that the aid packages of the Ministry of Culture today extend beyond a wide range of cultural institutions, which have multiplied in relation to the cultural institutions to which we normally have contact. Normally, the Ministry of Culture has the approach that you only have contact with the institutions that help to achieve a state purpose. In this situation, of course, it has been our intention to try to stretch the safety net as much as possible under this diversity, which is the Danish cultural life. So I can understand the uncertainty. I will do everything I can to get it communicated away, and I am sure the questioner will help me to do that, and hopefully the announcements and the records will also bring this clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210244	Thank you. I am very pleased with that answer, I must say. And, of course, I am also available with regard to what we can do in relation to cultural life. It is in fact also where the Left believes that much remains to be done. For our cultural area is a very unhomogeneous size. The last question is this: are there areas where the Minister believes that there is still something that we can help the cultural area with?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210313	I believe that with the aid packages we have now set up, we have come around very, very well. In other words, regardless of the size of the organisation, regardless of its composition and economy, I think, as I said, that we have been very good at putting the safety net under many more players than we normally have. Having said that, I also very much welcome the fact that the other players who are helping to finance the Danish cultural life are increasingly joining the field, most clearly the foundations, but also the municipalities. For these are the three institutional sources of funding for Danish cultural life: the state, the municipalities and the foundations. The last thing we need is the Danes' income, and we have to wait a little longer for them. But I am sure that as soon as we get this sound reopening plan done, they will also return and ensure that Danish cultural life blooms and is here. Because we miss them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210417	Thank you for that, sir. Kim Valentin. Then we come to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 43 to the Minister for Culture, and the questioner is Mr. Jan Ejnar Jørgensen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and this is a very special situation we are in, because it is Question No. Twenty-five from the Left's hardworking group of Members who are asking today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210425	Here you go, sir. Ejnar E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210441	No, Jan E. Jørgensen, not Ejnar E. Jørgensen. Let's get these forms straight, sir. President. When he reveals my middle name, which is otherwise a well-preserved state secret, it must also be true. That fg. President Yes, that must be right. Sir. Jan Ejnar Jørgensen, go ahead, the word is yours). Thank you. I have a question for the Minister for Culture, and that is as follows: what is the Minister's view that the zoos in Denmark were first told by the National Police that they could open up as long as they complied with the restrictions in force, and then read a reply to Ritzau from the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Business saying that it would be inappropriate to open up?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210518	The National Police have not approved the opening of zoos. The National Police regularly advise on the rules, including on the government's common website about coronasmitte. As the National Police, according to my information, has also indicated, the ban on gathering more than ten people also applies in zoos, and the Danish strategy towards corona stands and falls precisely by the fact that we keep our distance and do not gather too many. And I fully agree with my colleagues in the Ministry of Justice and Industry about the strategy, in other words, that, in order to avoid this uncontrolled spread of infection, it would be inappropriate to open up the zoos which have so far been closed. Unfortunately, it is not possible at this stage either to give an answer as to when it is appropriate to open zoos. After all, the next phase of reopening will be discussed politically in the near future and a decision will be taken on what priority should be given in the next phase. But I would like to inform you that I have a lot of focus on zoos. I am aware that they are in a particularly difficult situation. They must look after their animals and it is expensive, and it is their high season that we have right now and in the future. Among other things: That is why the Minister for Industry, Employment and I had an initial meeting yesterday with a number of business organisations and workers' organisations to initiate a dialogue on how to really re-open responsiblely, among other things. the zoological facilities, i.e. what should be physically established in terms of cleaning etc. At the meeting, inter-branch organisations for the zoos took part and it was agreed that the Ministry of Culture will take over the dialogue specifically in relation to the zoos and aquariums in order to define how a reopening, where appropriate, can be done in a sound manner. The result of that dialogue will be played into the negotiations at party leader level, where the final decision on the overall assessment on the reopening of Denmark will therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210726	Then there is a shortcut to not saying the name mistakenly, and it is by asking the questioner to ask the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210732	Thank you, President. The National Police have not approved that zoos should be kept open. Well, that's untrue. That is simply untrue. The Minister for Culture is right now telling us something that is untrue, and the Minister has thus seen a commitment to truth. One would think that there were employees in the Ministry of Culture who could help the Minister to google himself to these things, because I just have to admit that it doesn't seem like the minister is getting a lot of help; in fact, I get a little pity for the Minister for Culture, because the minister is not dressed at all by his official work. Because on the police website, police.dk • Reichspolice • it is clear: Zoological gardens are allowed to stay open, and as an audience you can also visit zoos. It's clear, black and white. If it's not a permit to stay open, I don't know what it is. Knuthenborg Safaripark is open... is it illegal, or what? It is simply not right for me to ask a relatively simple question and then I am told nonsense. The National Police Department advises on its website that it is legal for zoos to keep open... it is still there to this day. Then it also says that some ministers have said that they do not think it is so clever. It is then that you stand there asking yourself whether you should comply with the legislation, where there is no ban, or whether you should comply with a minister's guts, where the minister says something to Ritzau. I have spoken to the director as late as this evening, for example, I have heard nothing from the government, but I have had to read about it here in a ritzautelegram. I do not think it is fair to be completely confused about what to do and what not to do. And if you even ask questions in this Chamber, you cannot get an answer at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429210939	In my first reply I also made it clear that the National Police had guided and had said that it was this convention ban that also applied in zoos. Of course, it follows what has just been the discussion since the last time we were in this Chamber, precisely that the outdoor zoos are allowed to stay open, but there must be no events, events and activities in zoos and safari parks, or the like, where there are more than ten people involved. And zoos must, of course, keep their indoor animal husbandry facilities closed. But the government is calling for the status quo to be maintained, and that is what the question was just about: did I agree with my fellow ministers? And I am because we have to take care of this health development that we have going on and which is good. We have to stick to it. This is partly due to the fact that many institutions have gone further, precisely in order for us to look after each other. And it is important that we stick to it so that we make a controlled reopening of the fixed plan, which I actually sense the questioner is also asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211051	As I said, I have spoken to the Director of the Zoo in Copenhagen this evening: it costs them DKK 650,000. a day to keep closed • 650,000 kr. a day! If the zoo had opened on 1 May as planned, it would have ended up with a deficit of 45 million. kr. according to the forecasts that can now be made. The equity is DKK 42 million. This ends up with, and it's including aid packages, that the zoo doesn't just have to fire personnel, but also has to kill animals. The situation we are facing is quite serious. And then you have to play gambling with the guests' lives and lives, because a minister says: No, I don't think that would be so clever. So, can we count on the information from the authorities that we have to keep open, or can we not? And what should you listen to? Are you going to listen to those instructions, or are you going to listen to what some random minister is going to think that morning?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211146	I do not recognize at all the reflections of my fellow ministers here. I think they are acting with the responsibility that I really sense that the questioner's party and the questioner are working on, namely how we will have balanced this health issue in terms of economic considerations. I admit that I'm a huge host, and it would be a lot easier if we just had that final plan from day one. But it is there, as far as I know, no one has seen it from the author or the author's party either. And that's why we have to keep helping each other to get these concerns balanced. As far as zoos are concerned, we are doing everything we can together to ensure that we do not get into the situation described by the questioner. A previous questioner has also been asked about the financial conditions, so I would just like to briefly outline that they can search through the general aid packages and that a special pool of special subsidies has been created to keep employees at work • even if the compensation scheme says they should have been sent home • so that they can take care of the animals. In addition, we have ensured that the facilities receiving state subsidies, which are many of the large ones I am just mentioning: Zoo Copenhagen, Givskud Zoo, Aalborg Zoo, Odense Zoo, North Sea Oceanarium, Randers Rainskov, Kattegat Centre and Den Blå Planet, can now also come under this extra emergency pool under the Ministry of Culture, which simply has to hold hands under these institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211315	I do not agree that the ministers take responsibility. On the contrary, I believe that this is a transfer of responsibility, because as a minister you have the possibility that if you think it is irresponsible for health to keep the zoo open, you can close it. Then there may be demands for compensation and so on, but then you have something to comply with. Well, for this, IKEA is allowed to keep open, but it isn't so smart anyway, because they didn't expect to do so: Well, they are allowed to do so, just as ILVA has kept open throughout the period and Knuthenborg Safaripark has kept open throughout the period, while zoos in Givskud, Aalborg, Odense and Copenhagen have been closed. Surely it cannot be right that those who have said that they will just look at the time and look at how to open up properly are punished and that those who have just driven on are rewarded. That is not a fair way of dealing with business and the part of culture that the zoos represent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211412	I do not agree with the questioner's premise that those who have shown a great deal of socialism are being punished. On the contrary, I have just outlined that not one but two special pools have been set up, such as: is intended for these great zoos and aquariums. So we're just trying to reward those who have the most difficulty in showing this responsibility. And I would like to take this opportunity to commend them for taking it down as intended. It really is such a discussion for me about the relationship between the spirit of the law and the letter of the law, where I see that the questioner is more to the letter of the law than the spirit of the law. But I think, as Minister for Culture and in fact also as Minister for Churches, that one of the reasons why we have made it through so far is precisely that the spirit of the Danes, including the zoos, has been far greater than the letter. I hope we can continue to hold on to that, because I think we will also be happy about that on the other side of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211511	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Question 44, which we should have had now, has been converted into a written answer at the request of the author, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. So we go to Question 45 (S 981), which is the last question of the evening. It's an extended question, and that means there's a questioner and a co-questioner. The questioner is sir. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left, and the co-questioner is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, also from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211545	Will the Minister explain why knowledge-educational centres such as Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke are not included in the cultural emergency package and what the Minister will do to ensure that the 16 centres are not allowed to close as a result of the covid-19 crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211600	They are not covered because these centres receive funds from the Ministry of Education and have special obligations in relation to communication to children and young people. There is no doubt that there are links with the cultural sector, but fortunately there are for many of the institutions in the cultural field. That is why I can hopefully reassure the questioner by saying that, although they are formally with and will be handled by the Minister for Children and Education, what she also explained here earlier in the day when she answered Question No. S 982, by recognizing the problem and stating that, on behalf of the government, she will work for a solution that equates the 16 centres with the emergency pool set up for cultural institutions that receive operating grants from the Ministry of Culture, then the cooperation within the government to get people picked up in relation to the institutions, the staff and the many people who look forward to returning to these institutions will continue, just as I see it doing among the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211705	Thank you for that, Minister. Thank you for your answer. What it is obvious to ask the Minister is that it is true that there are some funds left over in the Ministry of Education, which it is also important for us to deal with. However, the Minister acknowledges that the part in the Finance Act is 17 million. kr., is a very small part compared to what budgets and costs and accounts are available at these 16 centres? Does the Minister also believe that the Minister has a responsibility as Minister for Culture to go in and look at whether in some way we can help these institutions, as for example. Too many people are museums? It can also be said that it is experiences centres, but whatever it is, it is a combination, and that is why I want to hear whether the Minister for Culture is as positive as the Minister for Education was earlier in the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211804	I would like to say that I am extremely pleased, and I would therefore also like to ask the Minister for Culture whether the Minister for Culture intends to go into these negotiations and put some pressure on them. Because it's important that we solve this case. And, of course, in the case that the Minister for Culture wishes to do so, I would also like to know how the Minister for Culture will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211826	I can, of course, reassure you with what I also tried in my first answer to say that I am working very well with the Minister for Children and Education. I hope that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby will also be able to confirm this in relation to, for example, Mr President. public education, in which I think that the way we have got the legislation done, so that high schools and evening schools and folk universities have been included in the work that was actually anchored over in the Ministry of Children and Education, is good. This is exactly the kind of cooperation we need in this time of crisis in order to find solutions quickly for those institutions that have something in common but which are, of course, in different areas. So I have every confidence that the Minister for Children and Education will conduct these negotiations in an excellent manner. And when she needs help or input to what it's like to equate these 16 centres with what's been going on in the Ministry of Culture's area, we work together very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211920	Then we'll go over to the co-questioner. Mrs. Ellen Trane Nørby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429211925	Thank you. I would like to follow up where my good colleague Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt escaped, namely in relation to the cooperation that has to be. There is no doubt that we in the Left think it would have been natural for the 16 centres of knowledge-edagogic activity to have been included in the cultural packages as well. I believe that there were many not only the centres themselves, but also among us who, like us, have followed the area of last week, which was deeply surprised when it was seen from the centres that they had fallen outside all the aid packages. All right, these centres get their funding legally anchored on the basis of a communication initiative aimed at children and young people, which is why it is anchored in section 20 and not section 21, which is the Minister of Culture. But it doesn't change the fact that it's cultural and experience institutions, it's museums, it's the legendary land of Lejre, GeoCenter Møns Klint, NaturBornholm, Historiecenter Dybbøl Banke, Ribe VikingeCenter, and therefore there's also a need for both the Minister of Culture and the government to recognise that these centres are not only made up of their finance bill, but are part of the cultural and experience economy that is currently completely shut down due to the covid-19. That is why there is also a need for the Minister to recognise that this task is, after all, far greater than that of the financial bill and that it is basically about bringing it under the overall cultural aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212049	As a resident in the area very close to Lejre, I would also like to admit that the first time I found out that they do not actually belong to the Ministry of Culture's offer, it was also a surprise to me. However, in this time of crisis, when we are talking about cooperation across ministries, I think we still have to stick to the fact that you are, like, helped where you are usually helped. This is, after all, where, hopefully, the institution is best known. So cooperation is really good, but if there is a desire for such even more cross-management, it may be a talk after the crisis. Right now I am fully convinced that the Ministry of Children and Education will be a very good place to deal with these institutions, so that we are also sure that they are there on the other side of the crisis. I am sure that there are many children of all ages who are looking forward to the cultural but also educational offer they offer so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212143	I think it is only necessary to say that what one might call ape-throwing or what the 16 centres of scientific education have ended up in, that is to say, falling between the chairs just doesn't help in a time of crisis. So you kind of sit and say, "Oh, that's somebody else's resort." And I really think that the Minister for Culture himself set a good example before that, when we dealt with L 140 as a matter of urgency, we managed to get both the high schools, the public education and the public universities into the legislation there, even though it was legislation anchored elsewhere. That is why it is just a clear call for the Minister of Culture and the government not to cash in the situation we are in, because it will not help the 16 centres of activity that we are talking about and which are part of the cultural experience economy. So it is a clear call from this to the Minister for Culture in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212233	Despite all the prejudices that exist about politicians, I think that sometimes we also have to praise ourselves when we just fail to think in boxes and think in monkey caste. And I do not think that has been the case at all in this time of crisis, and that is not what I think is happening here at all. It is simply a way of ensuring that we deal with people and institutions where they are best known, but of course with inspiration from the interface that exists to other areas. The high schools and public education are still away in the Ministry of Culture, although there has been cooperation over in the Ministry of Children and Education. And so, I'm sure, will be the case with these institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212317	Well, then, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt from Vojens allowed to ask the last question tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212321	Thank you. I would like to make the words of Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby mine, and I would also like to put myself on the list of appreciative personalities to the Minister for Culture and say that he is doing a good job. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for Culture whether the Minister for Culture will say here today that she will follow this case herself, so that we can be sure that the Minister for Culture will at least keep an eye on whether this matter will be resolved and that, in the event that it does not happen, we will return to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212355	One of the things I'm most happy about being a minister is actually feeling that we're part of a team. And I think that has been expressed in particular during this time of crisis, when I think I can safely say that I will be watching. I have the feeling that the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Children's and Education will also be watching. The only way we can draw up a map and a GPS to move forward from this time is in fact that we keep helping each other to get the gaps that are, as we have done by putting a safety net out throughout society and by watching that we get everyone with us. And we have to do that here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212437	That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200429212438	I thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 30 April 2020, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
