ParlaMint-DK_20200218130024	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Samira Nawa (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the rules on target numbers and policies for the proportion of the underrepresented sex in senior management bodies of private enterprises). Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Søren Søndergaard (EL): Enquiry no. F 44 (What can the Minister say that the CIA has secretly owned Crypto AG, which has provided encryption equipment for the Danish defence, and how does the government feel about a foreign state gaining access to our confidential communications?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130055	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130136	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130158	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 23 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130227	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130248	Does the Minister for Economic Affairs wish to speak? No. It's just quiet from over there. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130315	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning, the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions and the law on maritime spatial planning] After publication of proposals for sea plans, etc.]: Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 29 votes (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 79 votes (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 29 votes (RV, SF, EL and ALT), 80 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 28 (RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 81 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning and the law on nature protection (Boligos on land subject to smell and implementation of experimental projects]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 7 and 8 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130506	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130521	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF and EL), joined by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Thus, the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in A [Proposal for a law amending the Social Services Act (Ro and stability for vulnerable children and young people and the enforcement of forced decisions on changed location without consent]]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 2-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services (Enhancement of the legal certainty of parents in matters of placement, consideration of the child's schooling in the choice of location and abolition of the right to lay down rules on self-payment by children and young people, etc.]PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we will allow those who do not want to be in the Chamber on the next item to leave the Chamber. Yeah, well, then I expect quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130638	The debate is open. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130657	Thank you. In the municipalities, the decision of the Ankestyrelsen is of great importance. It is therefore a good thing that this bill brings the law into being. When there is disagreement or uncertainty between municipalities as to who has a duty to act, it is important that a quick and flexible procedure can take place. This bill, which must be said to be rather technical, makes the rules clear and clarified so that there is no doubt about the role of the Ankestyrelsen and the nature of the proceedings. The changes in the law will make it clear that the Ankestyrelsen makes binding decisions between municipal cases, and the amendment of the law means that the municipalities must now use a special form when submitting the case. Finally, this amendment will mean that cases which are not of a fundamental nature can be dealt with administratively and without appointed members. We also look forward to the law being amended so that in future it will be stated that it is FH that appoints the 36 members of the board of directors. With L 106 some technical details will be corrected, and the Social Democratic Party, of course, fully supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130815	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130824	Thank you for the floor. The draft law that we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber right now is very technical in nature, but it is also to make some clarifications about the role and composition of the Ankestyrelsen, and for that reason I will actually try to make the speech here quite brief. For basically it can be said that the draft law here aims to ensure that in future there can be no doubt about the role of the Ankestyrelsen in relation to disputes. More specifically, it can also be said that the bill goes in and adjusts, compared to the fact that there was a merger of LO and FTF back in 2018, which became the Fag movement's Main Organisation, FH, and it is now also specified in the law and written in to suit reality. All in all, it is a bill that we in the Left can well support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130931	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218130939	Thank you. The bill provides for a clarification in the law, so that it will be expressly stated that the Ankestyrelsen takes binding decisions in cases of disagreement between municipalities. The explanation is due, among other things, to: a Vestre Landsret ruling, which stated that in cases of disagreement between municipalities, the Ankestyrelsen acts as a dispute settlement body. That is not clear from the law today. As you know, the LO and the FTF have merged, and on this basis the LO and the FTF have to be replaced by the FH in various paragraphs, which is the main organisation of the trade union movement and this applies to section 52 on appointed members and section 59 a on the Employment Committee of the Ankestyrelsen and section 81 on the Advisory Committee on Practice. In addition, it is also proposed that a specific authorisation be introduced for the Minister of Social Affairs and the Interior to lay down rules for municipalities to use a special form for submitting cases to the Ankestyrelsen about disagreements between municipalities about their obligation. On the basis of this, the legal certainty notice will provide for the municipalities to use a special form when submitting disputes between municipalities, as well as the municipalities already have an obligation to use an appeal form when submitting re-assessments in cases where a citizen has complained about a municipal decision. It is always the case, then, with the authority of a minister that we should be careful about that. So if the Minister can confirm from the platform that this is the only authorisation given to the Minister, then the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131121	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131130	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I have to say that this is a predominantly technical legislative proposal and we will have, among other things, a proposal for a directive. clarified the role of the Ankestyrelsen in a dispute between municipalities. We are radically in agreement with the draft law and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131150	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131156	Thank you for that, President. I shall be very brief. My good fellow rapporteurs have explained what this bill is all about, and of course we also support this in clarifying the role of the Ankestyrelsen. So we back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131211	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131216	As has been said a few times from up here, this is probably a bill that can be categorized as one that ensures that the law is in line with reality, and that is often very good; it is technical clarification. The Enhedslisten, of course, supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131231	The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber must be Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131242	Thank you, President-in-Office, and a rapporteur who, through his five years in Parliament, has probably never experienced such a rapid legal process. It is good to clarify that the Ankestyrelsen deals with disputes between municipalities in relation to their obligations, so the alternative is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131302	5 years I've been here for 30, and so have I. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131312	The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, and New Citizens have asked me to say that so do New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131318	Thank you. And then it's the Social Affairs and the Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131325	You can set records in many ways, and it is good if we can take the record here as the most effective legislators at all. You have been sitting up here on the audience so experienced: the most effective legal procedure for quite many years, says the President. I am not going to stand here and delay because then we will lose that record, but just sign for the positive reception of the bill, which is of a technical nature. And it's a good thing we're doing this. Let me just get ahead of the Danish People's Party by saying that the only authority that lies with the Minister here in the bill is that I have the opportunity to ask the municipalities to report in a particular form, which will make it easier for the Ankestyrelsen to make its decisions. So that is also clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131406	There are also no brief comments to be made to the Minister, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131418	The debate is open, but we are in the situation that we lack the minister responsible for the bill here, namely the Minister for Industry. The explanation is probably that the previous thing went as fast as it did. So I will not interrupt the meeting, but just breathe deep for a few minutes and see if the Minister for Industry does not show up. Welcome to the Minister of Business. Normally you'd get some reprimands, but because it went so fast before, we're gonna take it a little gelin' way. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131553	Thank you for that, President. I could hear that the explanation for the speed with the first legislative proposal was that it was of a technical nature; so is this, so I do not have to do it very far. This is a legislative proposal which contains a number of changes to financial legislation and aims to ensure that we remain within the EU legislation that applies in this area. First of all, the draft law ensures compliance with the PEPP regulation. PEPP stands for pan-European personal pension product when translated into Danish and it covers the fact that European pension providers will be able to choose to offer a new pension scheme to EU citizens in all EU countries. This is a voluntary and individual scheme which could be adopted in addition to public pensions and occupational pensions. The draft law provides for the appointment of the FSA as the supervisory authority responsible for monitoring compliance with the regulation. The bill ensures that Danish law is adapted to the regulation. In addition, the rules governing the outsourcing of activities by financial undertakings are amended to make the rules clearer and to ensure that the rules in this area are consistent with EU guidelines. The amendment of the rules was recommended by the working group, which states something like the Working Party for the supervision of the financial regulation, and it was a working group in which the industry itself was included and has helped to make the recommendations which are now proposed to be transposed into law. Then there is also a proposal to clarify the rules on the independence of insurance intermediaries. It must clarify the principle of independence for insurance intermediaries who consider themselves independent. All in all, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the draft law contains good tactics and is sensible compliance with the rules that apply within the European Union. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131814	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218131819	It is true, as the previous rapporteur said, a legislative proposal implementing the so-called PEPP regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on pan-European personal and voluntary pension products. It is not certain that so many of us are aware of this yet, but we ensure that there is a legislative competence in relation to new pension products, and it makes sense to ensure that the Danes have access to different products. The draft law provides for the appointment of the FSA as the competent authority to monitor compliance with the rules and also provides for penalties for infringements of certain provisions of the Regulation. In other words, it makes sense that we should ensure that Danish legislation does, of course, comply with our European obligations and that, if we do not comply with the rules, there is also, of course, a penalty clause. The bill also implements the political agreement of September last year to strengthen the scope for intervention against fees, etc. on payment service solutions. It's gonna be handled with this bill, too. Funds have also been increased for both the Competition and Consumer Authority and also for the Consumer Ombudsman. The bill also amends the rules governing the outsourcing of various activities by financial companies and, as the Social Democratic rapporteur mentioned, as a follow-up to the report, is the review of the financial regulation from 2018. The amendments should also ensure that the Danish rules on outsourcing are more uniform and aligned with the latest guidelines of the European banking supervisory authorities. I have to say, however, that when you read the answers to the hearings, there is a little room for interpretation as to whether that exercise has succeeded quite appropriately. I think we would do well to devote some time to this in committee, because the question is whether there are some who are covered by the rules that are already subject to other regulations and whether we are really laying down where we really could or whether there may still be both overimplementation and ambiguity. At any rate, I think that the answers to the hearings raise a number of questions which I know we in the Left will at least be asking about during the committee's work, so we are sure that we will have the simplification and clarification that is the whole purpose of the exercise. It would be natural for us to make sure that we are on very safe ground there. Of course, we think it is important that there is a wide range of financial products for the Danes, and this also means that when rules are now being drawn up for pan-European pension products, there must also be sensible rules for this at home, and we must live up to the agreements we have made in the past, and that is why we are quite in favour of the draft law as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132112	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132120	Thank you, sir. President. Both the rapporteurs of the Left and the Social Democrats have, of course, explained fairly Slavically what this bill contains, it is a little different initiatives, and the Danish People's Party can support all the initiatives included in the proposal. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is good that the FSA is appointed to be the controlling authority in this area too, and we also think that it is good that it is also possible to sanction, in other words to punish violations of this regulation from the European Union. We also think in the Danish People's Party that it is good that we ensure better conditions in the outsourcing area, in other words in relation to the rules that must be applied for outsourcing activities in financial companies. The last thing I want to mention is the part which clarifies the rules on the independence of insurance intermediaries. This is in fact one of the places where I think this law will also be used for something quite positive, because there have actually been some gross examples that some so-called insurance intermediaries in the sale of various pension or insurance products had forgotten to say that they were not as independent as they might have been, since they were actually owned by the companies for which they sold products. This is not good practice and, in particular, cannot be practiced without conflicting with legislation. When we adopt the L 109, it will be in conflict with the law to do so, and then it will be punishable. It is precisely important, in the view of the Danish People's Party, to ensure that there is this independence in relation to the provision of insurance services. So the Danish People's Party can together support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132328	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132336	Thank you. Oh, my God, it went a little fast coming down here in the hall! The former rapporteurs have, of course, examined what the draft law, which is rather technical in nature, contains. I would also like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that in the work of the committee we naturally want to look at how we interpret these things, so I shall look forward to that. We are very pleased and can also support the fact that the FSA will be a competent authority to ensure compliance with the regulation, and we are particularly pleased with the strengthening of the arm's length principle, as the DF's rapporteur has also just explained. With these few comments, I would like to say that Radicals support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132434	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Theresa Berg Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132442	SF would also like to sign that the government has taken up this important issue. I think there is a good reason why the government is proposing the FSA appointed as the authority to comply with the PEPP Regulation in the context of the procurement and distribution of PEPP products. It is particularly important for SF that Denmark meets current EU regulation so that we can remain a competitive small country. In addition, the government also addresses the issue of outsourcing. The balance between the relief of administrative burdens on the Danish economy and socio-economic security, which ensures in relation to future crises, is not easy to hit. There is good reason in the government's arguments, and SF looks positively at the considerations that the government has made. The same applies to the rules governing the independence of insurance intermediaries. Overall, this is a legislative proposal that we would like to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132544	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132551	Thank you. The Enhedslisten does not look at the pan-European pension products with great enthusiasm or great excitement. Yes, the European Union wants to create a capital market that takes account of the profitability of the large financial institutions. We fully understand that, but we find it difficult to see what the real need is for there to be cross-border work on this point and to see the need for foreign pension products. Several people have pension savings as it stands today, and the Commission has not documented or made any assumptions and there is no indication that this regulation will make it possible for more people to have pension savings. As far as the regulation is concerned, we also have a number of questions which follow up on our reading of it in the Committee on European Affairs in the first place and which I will put to you during the committee procedure, so that we can assess it on an enlightened basis and then look at what we are going to vote on. After all, a regulation has been drawn up, and we must, of course, try to do it as well as possible. There is also a corner of the legislative proposal which we welcome and which we, among others, welcome. also in interaction with the Consumer Council Think fully backs up. It is about clarifying rules and about the independence of insurance intermediaries. There is every reason to ensure clarity on the principle of independence in this area. We need to ensure that insurance intermediaries are independent when they also call themselves independent. And there we have already seen, not least recently, how Danish financial institutions have looked at this very much in spite of existing regulations on the part of the European Union, for example. dissemination commission. In addition, we also welcome the fact that the consumer Ombudsman's criticism, which has been included in the consultation reply, has been included in the drafting of the bill and that the part relating to the extension of the confidentiality of the FSA has been written out. This is an area in which we believe there is a need for greater openness and not the opposite. But so far I have no further comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132808	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218132816	Thank you. There is no doubt that financial regulation is necessary, it is important, and it is also extremely complicated and so is reading the legal text of this. As legislators, we must keep our tongues straight and we must ensure both clear rules and as few rules as possible and, at the same time, avoid over-implementation. Afterwards, some companies have to manage the rules in everyday life and there are companies of different sizes and with different resources to understand and interpret the rules. Fortunately, L 109 is about clarification and clarity, ensuring compliance with the rules on these pan-European personal pension products, and there are four elements. One is about the appointment of the FSA as an authority. The second is about offences that can be punished. It's also hard to resist. The third is the clarification of rules for independent insurance intermediaries, which was also mentioned in the previous rapporteur's speech. In fact, it is important that they also appear independent and thus cannot place customer savings in companies with which one might have a close relationship or close connection, as it is called. Finally, it is a question of regulating outsourcing more clearly, as has also been mentioned several times. As far as outsourcing is concerned, there are two points we need to bear in mind: firstly, the definition of when it is critical or important outsourcing and, secondly, whether we can avoid over-implementing the outsourcing of their own affairs by investment management companies, which are also regulated elsewhere. In the text here, the Ministry estimates that it is only used to a limited extent, which sounds like a fair assessment, but let us follow it up. Today, here at 2:00 a.m. Ten further responses have also been received, and we shall have to look into that as well. However, financial regulation has come to stay and, according to Conservatives' assessment, the bill is in direct continuation of the good tactics of recent years in this area. That is why, of course, we agree with the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133020	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. There were no brief comments, and so we can move on to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133026	I shall see if I can break the record briefly; things are moving fast at the moment. The alternative also supports this bill, and I am also very pleased that the FSA has been given the role they have been given in ensuring supervision of it. Personally, I am also very, very pleased that the criticism, as the Enhedslisten also pointed out in his rapporteur's speech, as has been the case with the Consumer Ombudsman, of the restriction of public access has been heard and that that part has been removed from the table, if I have understood correctly, and I look down at the Minister and hope that I have read the text correctly. So we can support this in every way, and I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133118	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133126	Some pressure is being put on now, I must say. I may in fact feel most sorry for all the listeners who have chosen today to come in here in the Danish Parliament and listen to what is going on and then get a case like this one, which is of a highly technical nature, and where I can admit myself that I set up three or four jumping actions when I had to go through it and read it. But that's the way it is. Basically, we in New Citizens are a little critical of what comes from the European Union. On the other hand, we are in favour of a free market and of foreign capital and pension companies also having the opportunity to act, and there must of course be supervision of it. So basically, we're also positive about this. Let us look at it in committee if there are some things about over-implementation and so on. But I have faith that you'll get a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133205	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133212	After all, it has long been a thorn in the eye of the Liberal Alliance that the FSA was not competent to ensure compliance with the PEPP regulation. We are pleased that these matters are now being sorted out, and that is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133234	Normally speaking from the Chamber is not allowed, but I can tell that you are unleashing, because things have gone a little fast. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133247	Thank you. Now it is tempting simply to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and refer the draft law to committee, because then we would be near to setting the record in time. However, I think I will add a few words to that, even though it has already been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. It is quite true that this is of a technical nature, but we will get to something in a few minutes, which may be a little bit more juice and power, namely L 110. I am comforted that I know that Lars Boje Mathiesen as one of his jumping actions is sometimes at the gym here at Christiansborg, so if it is one of the jumping actions, he is legally excused. However, thank you for the broad support for the legislative proposal, which I can hear from you, both the purpose of it and the content of it. It has also received mostly a positive reception in the consultation that has taken place. It is a legislative proposal that ensures that we comply with the new common European rules and that we have updated and clarified our financial regulation in a number of areas. Although this has already been done, I would nevertheless like to highlight a few of the most important elements of my speech. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The aim is to ensure compliance with this PEPP regulation, which has now been mentioned a few times. It was adopted in June 2019. PEPP is like Mr. Orla Hav is quite right to say that it is an abbreviation for pan-European personal pension product, and it is a regulation that will allow pension providers in all EU countries to choose to offer a new form of voluntary and individual pension scheme, in other words a pan-European personal pension product, in addition to public pensions and occupational pensions, as we know them. That's why it's gonna be, among other things. It is proposed here that the FSA be designated as the competent authority to ensure compliance with the PEPP Regulation and that infringements of a number of provisions of the Regulation are punished, as Mona Juul also highlighted in her rapporteur's speech. The draft law also proposes a number of changes to the rules governing the use of outsourcing by financial companies, and this is something that responds, among other things. a wish of the industry itself, which is part of the task force for the supervision of financial regulation, which recommended in 2008 an amendment to the rules on outsourcing based on the new guidelines of the European Banking Authority. I have noted that there are a number of things that we need to clarify in the committee's work, and we are always ready to help with as much as we possibly can, and on that basis I look forward to the further examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133544	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133557	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133614	Thank you for the floor. The content of the bill here is an amendment to the annual accounts law, the so-called control package, which systematically addresses corporate and accounting fraud. There are several elements which together can help to ensure that the few who do not behave properly are put to death while ensuring that the many who comply with the rules are not bothered. The bill allows the Danish Business Authority to carry out a digital advance verification of company and accounting information prior to any more detailed manual control, where deemed necessary. In other words, risk-based controls are introduced which quickly and effectively catch those who need to be looked at in the seams without everyone being run on the doors of inspectors and inspectors. Company control is also strengthened in a number of areas, so that it becomes much harder to hide those responsible for financial crime behind workers and false corporate structures. Financial control is strengthened in order to respond more effectively to companies that break the law. In the extreme, such companies will be able to be disbanded. At the same time, it will be possible to hold accountants liable for infringements of the Laundering Act and to advise clients in violation of the Laundering Act. It has not been in the past, and it is essential that the responsibility of a trusted person, as an auditor, be clarified. In addition, I think it is essential to emphasise that the draft law relieves the administrative burden on voluntary associations. They will be able to register representatives and a drawing rule in the CVR register so that representatives can act on behalf of the association using NemID. As an asset in society, I think this is quite positive. Economic fraud and money laundering are subversive to our social model, and we all suffer. The tax which a company or a person fails to pay is missing from the Community fund when nurses or roads are to be hired. And when the money is washed white and we do not know where it is, then it can be used for drug trafficking, terrorism and other criminal activity that threatens the security and trust of our society. When fraudsters put in straws and abuse people, and when companies use false addresses, then both the public, private and all the proper companies risk falling victim to the acts of criminals. It undermines the guiding principle that we have in our society: trust. The control package tightens the grip on criminals while those who comply with the rules go free. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that this is a wise way of controlling, and that is why we support the proposal, which underpins our joint social contract.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133938	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218133946	Thank you. This is an area in which we have spent a great deal of time in the Folketing for a long time now: to make it more difficult to make financial crime and to be more aware of how our business register, how accounting checks, how tax controls etc. can be made more effective because we will be an effective protection against people who want to run companies in order to cheat and exploit the rules and not pay what is now to be paid. As I have said, a large number of initiatives have been made which have allowed different registers to be run together with the Danish Business Administration and with the tax authorities and to do so-called machine learning, so that some of these companies are simply caught before they start up, that the warning lights light up so that it is not possible to start a business at all. If the warning lights are lit, action will be taken. In this context, it is, of course, here and follows some of the tracks that have been made, and we basically think it is sensible that the Danish Business Authority should be able to effectively check that the rules are complied with and that efforts should be based on a data- and risk-based control principle, so that they are targeted. There are also some sanctions in the draft law, for example. the possibility, in the end, of forcibly setting up businesses. This is, of course, a fairly far-reaching approach, which is why it is of course also important that it is linked to legal certainty assurances, and it seems that that balance has been struck, but at least that is something that we must be aware of. One of the things that really puzzles me, and in which I have previously dug a lot, is the penalty for throwing away his accounting material. One is committed to maintaining one's accounting material for five years. There have been far too many cases where responsibility for the operation of the company has simply disposed of the accounting material and the penalties that have been imposed have been extremely, very modest. I think it has been subject to punishment since the 1980s; I think two judgments have been handed down in this area. So this is an easy way to throw away the burden of proof. It is true that a company can be broken up by force in this respect, but whether or not the criminals behind it are actually punished, I may have my doubts about it, but it may well be in a different context that we should look at it. At any rate, it is something that attacks my legal awareness that it is so cheap for people who run a business, simply to dispose of the accounting material and thus make any kind of investigation of what has actually happened virtually impossible. There is also a provision in the proposal that companies which do not report the net turnover in the annual report are not obliged to do so, among other things. for competition purposes • now has to report the net turnover to the Danish Business Authority, at the same time as the annual report is submitted. It is a figure that is already submitted to the tax authorities. Thus, as can be seen from the consultation answers, there is a very short time span between when this information is submitted. I think it says in the comments and in the consultation note that it may be only 5%. of companies, but I really think we should be careful not to report it twice to companies that have to report this figure anyway, and to find a way to exchange the information between the authorities instead of having the same number reported twice. I do not think that is very appropriate. In fact, we also tend to have the principle that numbers should only be reported once, and then it is the authorities that must ensure that they are exchanged among themselves. There are a large number of other elements, but what concerns the fight against fraud is in fact our support. What the Socialist rapporteur pointed out is that the rules governing associations are also being relaxed, we also think that we are making quite good sense. This is actually a major problem today, where you have to spend time collecting documentation from the board, submitting photo ID and everything else. It's really messed up. This may not solve all the problems, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. On the other hand, there is another part of the bill that is linked to it after it was first in consultation, and that is the implementation of the Finance Act concluded by the government. I am not going to go into detail on this, but it does include an increased fee for accountants and real estate agents, and I would like to raise a flag there, in view of the fact that we are not in favour of imposing new burdens on business. I think it would perhaps make very good sense that what concerns an area that we have been in common for many years, namely the fight against fraud and fraud, can be made in one legislative proposal, and what translates the government's financial law agreement should probably be made by the government in another legislative proposal. Of course, we support effective action against cheating companies, but where the legislative proposal contains increased fees, we will be critical, and that is why we want the legislative proposal to be split up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218134500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218134508	As I said, the bill contains a number of elements, and the Danish People's Party is absolutely in favour of the elements included in the bill. After all, we think it makes sense to ensure that in companies that opt out of auditing it is done on a legal basis and that it is not done in relation to companies that are not entitled to it. We also think in the Danish People's Party, it is very good that you go in and disarm companies which do not operate on a legal basis and which have no turnover or who deliberately commit criminal offences such as those in question. to speculate in VAT carousels or anything else. These are good, healthy elements. It is certainly also positive that with this bill the Minister is going in and giving administrative burden relief for the many people who spend part of their free time being engaged in voluntary associations. As several rapporteurs have said, this does not shift the whole problem of this unnecessary registration. Some of it is still subject to some EU registration, which I cannot relate to at all, I almost said I think it is terrible. But that does not change the fact that it is the hallmark of it. But everything else equal is always worth mentioning positive news, and it is of course good that it becomes easier to be a volunteer in an organisation. But the bill also contains some parts about this, which others have talked about before, with increased control compared to strawmen in Danish companies, false identities, and also companies that operate from false addresses. The Danish People's Party welcomes the fact that we are improving control, but we just think it might be worth noting a day like today that this certainly does not do it alone. It is true that we can increase control in relation to strawmen and people who do not file their accounts, fictitious addresses, false identities and all sorts of other foreign directors who have never been to Denmark and who are suddenly listed as directors in several hundred Danish registered companies, as we saw on TV last year. Among other things, it was taken. to Ghana, I think it was, and was down to visit an unsuspecting Ghanaian who didn't know that he was the director of several hundred Danish companies, but he had got some money every time he had to put his name to it. Often they do it with fake passports, etc., and you don't have any addresses for people in many of these African countries... they don't have such a fine address system as we have in Denmark. Nor is it done electronically in the same way as it does in Denmark, and that means that it is a slaraff country if you want to go out and commit financial crime. Then it is always good to install a director who neither speaks nor understands Danish and who has never been to Denmark, and then you drive VAT carousels and money in and out of transactions, money in and out of Denmark. So the proposal's fine. But now that we are discussing these parts about stubborn men and illegal constellations, I think we should also discuss with the Minister for Industry how we can improve safety in relation to coming after those who also commit financial crime in the short term. Because it is true that with this bill we say that we can do some control, and then we can send a warning letter to the director and say: if you don't do this within a month or two, we'll come after you. But what we can see is that many of these companies do not exist as long as the patience evidently exists in the Danish authorities. They may close and turn off after 6 months or 9 months, and then there's a lot of money that's gone, and then there's a big bill over at the Danish Business Authority, where you have to straighten it out. And there is usually also a loss of revenue in relation to some money that is speculated out of Denmark. Also in relation to terrorist financing and other quite harmful elements for a free and democratic country like Denmark, you just look passively at money rushing out of Denmark and ending up in wrong pockets in wrong countries. So that part of it is missing, sir. Minister. We're missing the short lane. This is only the long term and will only be able to hit those who run their business for several years, and it's kind of a schism in itself. But, of course, we support the bill and the things that lie in it, but we do not think that the government goes far enough to come after international crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135016	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135022	Thank you. It is the case that we should rather promote responsible business in Denmark, and we should actually make it as easy as possible to be a company here. And on many points too, I think that this bill makes provision for this, while at the same time cutting down on financial fraud, because that is what we need to do. I also see, when I read the answers to the hearings, that there is general support from the professional organisations, but there are some comments, among others. In connection with that, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen pointed out in relation to reporting numbers. I think we'd like to take a look at that too, that is, how we make this as easy as possible. I do not think anyone has an interest in this being more troublesome for the responsible operators than it absolutely must be. We are, of course, very pleased that with this bill we will strengthen the Danish Business Authority's money laundering supervision, because this is an area where we need to take action, which is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Theresa Berg Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135158	The fight against financial fraud is a core area for the SF. Therefore, the SF also welcomes the possibility of being more quickly able to crack down on financial fraud and corporate tax fraud. It is a huge problem that companies that benefit from the Danish social model and the highly educated, trusting workforce avoid contributing to the community by means of false identities and fictitious addresses. SF therefore signs to the Minister for Business to address the issue. It is also reasonable that the bill makes it possible to bring auditors to the Board of Auditors for infringement of the Laundering Act. That the bill strengthens voluntary associations' opportunities to handle administrative tasks, we also support in the SF. I look forward to the further examination of the bill and look forward to getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135253	Thank you. And there are no brief comments here either, which is why it is now Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135303	Thank you. In Enhedslisten, we welcome this bill to strengthen business-oriented control of companies' annual accounts. Today, in our opinion, the Business Administration has far too little opportunity to identify it and intervene when incorrect or falsified company and accounting information is provided in the accounts. Exploring falsified information in time is a prerequisite for combating both fraud and abuse, but there is much evidence that existing digital pre-control is an inadequate safeguard against fraud. For this reason, we welcome the fact that the agency is being given control aid to carry out a thorough post-control, so that potential fraud can be better detected. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135353	Thank you. Whitewashing, stubblemen, false identity, fictitious address, VAT fraud, tax evasion... all this financial crime has really come on everyone's lips, and this unfortunately helps to undermine confidence in companies and the system. The latest criticism from the Reichsaudit was tough, and it was straight on; we have far along the way the rules, but we lack enforcement. The authorities are not being followed up by feedback from companies, and the massive efforts that companies have actually made have not been rewarded; the public authorities have not provided in relation to financial crime. Now we stand again and want to tighten the rules, this time in relation to the corporate and accounting areas. It's sympathetic, and it's so for who doesn't want more speed? Who doesn't want to have more effect and get this into gear when it comes to fighting down financial crime? We all need that so much. Of course, we would much rather be involved in strengthening our efforts, there should be no doubt about that, and it should not have too little. And we will not help to put up with fraud in any form whatsoever. Having said that, I also have a huge need to remind everyone that, after all, it is so important that we here in Christiansborg do not help to portray the majority of companies as evil, as some who are only trying to bump up the bottom line and exploit the system, because we actually need companies and we need the confidence that they have and that we have for them and for the system. That is where jobs are created, and that is where the value on which we all live must be created. And if we miss the wrong mark with our legislation, we will put an unnecessary burden on companies. Then we give them less competitive conditions, and then the social cake gets much smaller, so that the slices become thinner and thinner. That is why we need to balance the concern to hit fraud and to strengthen businesses. We must insist on a continuous proportionality assessment in relation to necessity and proportionality in accordance with the general principles of administrative law, so that we do not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on companies and do not leave the small companies in particular, which are of course by far the majority in Denmark, with the feeling that then everything can also be equally important. It is exactly the same feeling that many responsible Danes have when they can read every day that others just give, no, you cannot say that, but give something but has the necessary balance been found in the proposal? Yeah, I think it's a long way along the way. There are also some points that I would like us to delve into more. The rapporteur on the Left has mentioned one of those that I think is absolutely central: why is it that we are going to impose a fee here on accredited auditors and real estate agents, that is to say an extra burden which I actually consider to be contrary to case law and as a division, because when is it just that you have been approved and so on?? The other thing that I think it is important to see is how we ensure that such stupid mistakes are made, for example. in connection with the winter holiday which has just been there, or an oversight in connection with the storage of documents, etc. Of course, the vast majority of companies have it under control; the vast majority of companies keep their documents securely, but there can be errors, even in ordinary, proper companies. The third point is that there is also a tendency to overimplement, and we must also look at that here, which we should match with some rules that we can then pull out again, for example. This whole thing about reporting one number once, not multiple times. Finally, I also wonder about the lack of focus on companies where the risk of error and cheating is greatest. Let's focus on that. So from here we give absolutely the green light in relation to the purpose, but also just a little yellow in relation to the points I have mentioned here and which I hope we will get to grips with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135807	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218135815	Thank you for that, and let me start with the conclusion: we fully support this bill. It is in every way politically sympathetic that the Minister focuses on how to ensure proper governance of our businesses when it comes to meeting the letter of the law. A number of examples have already been mentioned of how the law is doing well here, and there is no doubt that when we look at some of these frauds, i.e. financial fraud and money laundering cases, we all say that we deeply disagree with it and that something needs to be done about it, and far away we may also have the tools for it, but we have just not been good enough for it, and I think that the Minister with this bill is focusing on a very delicate point. If I have to put it this way more politically in principle, I think that there is a huge amount of focus on it when there is social fraud and it is individuals, citizens of this society, who are doing something wrong. It comes on the cover of the Ekstra Bladet and B.T., and it is covered on all joints and edges for months when it is personal matter. But I think it can be lame when it comes to companies. This society will never be united unless we all contribute together. In particular, the broadest should contribute here, which is why it is important to focus on companies. Now I heard Mrs Mona Juul say that you should not make enemy images either, and that there are very, very many companies that are doing very well. Yes, that is quite right, but if you compare the attention paid to social fraud at the level of the individual and the attention paid to it in the media, then I do not think it corresponds at all to the attention that this issue should have. So we think this is really, really good. Then I would also like to say something like a subtitle, but one important thing for me is that civil society will get it easier. In other words, the associations will be relieved in relation to some of the bureaucratic demands, and I really think that in relation to all legislative proposals there should be such an assessment of whether the bill strengthens or weakens civil society. Because, just as we need all of us to contribute, we cannot be without civil society, and I know that this is a little side-discussing in this context, but I just think it is very sympathetic about this bill that civil society is actually being relieved of some of the bureaucratic demands. So we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140104	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140111	All too rarely do we pay tribute to the business community in here from the Parliamentary Chamber. Perhaps we do so in rhetorical terms, but it cannot be done often enough, because it is the business community that is responsible for us being able to run Denmark as we do. It is business, it is the young entrepreneur who takes the chance, who uses his child savings, who may get a loan from the bank and bet it all on his idea. It is the established companies that have two or three employees who have come along well, who may have 4-5 years on the back and start to develop, which we also owe a great deal of thanks to, and it is the large companies that have been carrying the Danish economy for many years, which we also owe a great deal of thanks to. When we owe our thanks to the business community, we owe it to them also to ensure that they do not have to worry about overimplementation, that they do not have to worry about others who cheat and deceive the Danish state and who give these companies a bad image out there that they absolutely do not deserve. That is why it is an extremely important proposal. However, this proposal does not solve everything, and I think we should be completely open about it, but it can be a step in the right direction. From the point of view of the new citizens, we would like to see much more focus on the groups of entrepreneurs with which we can see there are problems. So let's focus our efforts there. If you stand as director of 52 companies, there is an obvious possibility that perhaps a little more attention should be paid to it, because that is not normal, and we would hope that one can start looking at saying: Let us now let the business run a business, let them be left alone, and then focus the efforts where we can see that there are problems. I think we'll get a lot more with an English expression "bang for the buck" by going specifically for those companies where we can see that there are problems. Then we are also in favour of greater freedom for associations, but we also share the view of the Left that this bill should be shared. There are, of course, some fees for some auditors that we cannot support in New Citizens, and we do think that is a pity, because we would like to support some of the other proposals that are there. So we would like to share the Left's call for it to be split up on what is in the Finance Act, and then the other things that we actually think are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140339	Thank you. The bill here makes me think of the story of a man who invented the world's most effective remedy for mosquitoes. What was the chin of the invention was that the product had to be applied to the individual mosquitoes, and therefore in practice it was not as effective. This is therefore a very, very bureaucratic legislative proposal, as Mrs Mona Juul has also mentioned, and it is not least bureaucratic because it treats companies in the risk group and companies outside the risk group in the same way. It is also questionable that the same number should be recorded twice. The book "The State of the Rule" has been mentioned several times by Peter Bjerre Mortensen, professor at Aarhus University, who has demonstrated a threefold increase in the rule of 30 years, and this does not bring us in the right direction in keeping track of the rule, and it is a democratic problem, and it is an economic problem. It simply costs economic growth, it costs welfare not to rein in the rules. So we can't support this bill. Because it is simply too bureaucratic, although the aim is, of course, very sensible, just as it is sensible to protect people from mosquito bites. But it still needs to be done in an appropriate and appropriate way. Then we also agree with the Left and New Citizens that it is a little strange that this totally legitimate fight against economic crime should be linked to the government's financial law. It's really hard to understand, so there's a lot of reasoning about whether you vote for or against, I just have to say, for the sake of political integrity, to divide up this bill, and we can easily understand why there's a desire for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140538	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140541	I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to help me greet the delegation that has just come in here by standing up so that we can welcome them. It is the case that the Danish Parliament has a visit from Armenia these days, and I invite the President of the European Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ararat Mirzoyan, and the delegation welcome here in the Folketing and welcome to Denmark, and I hope that you will have a good and rewarding visit. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140609	Then we move on to the agenda. It's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218140625	Thank you for the debate. Thank you for the good words on both the purpose and, I think, on the way in which the content has been put together in the legislative proposal. Basically, I think that we are pursuing the smartest and the right business policy on the part of the Danish Parliament, if we are able to safeguard the social contract that is at the heart of Danish society and the interaction that exists between society as such and our business community. The social contract is strong if all those who behave and run a sensible and honest business and take care of their employees and the community they are part of do it properly every day • also experience a parliament that rolls the red carpet out for them and makes everyday life easier for them. At the same time, of course, we must guard against some breaking with the social contract. We need to be able to hit them hard and effectively. Violations of the social contract have many faces. It could be money laundering, it could be profit scandal. It could also be straw-man business. The bill here goes exactly in and tries to strengthen the social contract by hitting those who are trying to bypass it. For example: With this bill, it will be possible for the Danish Business Authority to intervene much more quickly and more effectively against the kind of straw-man business that we have seen examples of. I think that is a very important approach in principle to business policy, which I myself represent, and which I can see reflected in the way we deal with the legislative proposal we are dealing with here. Then there is that part of the bill that tightens the requirements of auditors. An accountant is, of course, the public's trust representative. With this bill, it will be the case that an accountant can be brought before the Board of Auditors for, among other things. money laundering offences. It will also be the case that the name of an accountant in judicial decisions of the Board of Auditors must be made public. This is, of course, far-reaching, but it is also a way of stressing the importance of the role that one has when one is an accountant and has the honorable job of representing public confidence in different contexts around our business community. In this way, I also think we are strengthening the auditors in their work to help keep the social contract intact in Denmark. Then, along the way, these questions have been mentioned about how quickly it will go in relation to this compulsion of companies. This is a rather far-reaching procedure which is being introduced here. There I think it is only important to say that it is important to remember that forced resolution will only be used when a company does not disclose the information requested by the Danish Business Administration or does not comply with the Danish Business Administration's injunction to legalise various matters. That is to say, it is not something that just comes rolling from the start. It takes some seriousness, and it also requires that you as a company do not actively follow the instructions and instructions given to you by the Danish Business Authority. It's just to clarify right here. We can certainly get closer to that in the committee work. But this compulsory solution is really far-reaching, but of course something must also be done before you end up in that exact instrument of sanctions. Then both the rapporteur on the Radical Left and the Left have mentioned the issue of reporting net turnover and reporting to the tax administration and reporting to the Danish Business Authority. I actually get it. I had the thought myself when we were working on this, if you couldn't do a more unified drive-in of this number to the authorities. There are, among other things: some systemic challenges, but there are also some challenges compared to when the year cuts accounts and when it cuts tax administration in relation to when the figures are due. However, I think we can look at it in the committee work, knowing for all of us that the companies are therefore only subject to a very small burden by having to report net turnover to the Danish Business Authority. The vast majority of companies use digital solutions, and it will be obvious that suppliers will adapt the solutions so that the net turnover will be reported directly to the Danish Business Authority in parallel with the financial statements. So let us see how big the problem really is when we get a little closer to it in committee work. Of course, we are happy to assist with that. There are two things I would like to turn around: first with the Danish People's Party this with the certainty and the opportunity to intervene more quickly against those who break the social contract; those who violate the way you have to run proper business in Denmark. I think that the draft law actually supports what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party wants by obtaining address validation in the past. You get the opportunity to demand physical attendance. All the examples of this kind of thing we have seen in the media, on straws or names that have been inserted in different companies, we will have the opportunity to turn in the door much more quickly with the bill that lies here. So I think, in fact, that with the legislative proposal we are taking a right step towards increasing the safety of the right people, but also that we can do it faster than we can at present. Then there is the second thing I would like to say a little about, and it is the desire of several parties to split up the legislative proposal so that the part relating to fee financing of the money laundering supervisory authority will be included in an independent legislative proposal. One might say that it is a proposal that intends to strengthen the fight against fraud and money laundering and to give our Business Administration more muscle. As a result, it is also quite natural that the fee financing of the money laundering supervision with accurate accountants and real estate agents should be included in the overall control package. At least I think so. If the intention of dividing up the bill is to vote against the part of the bill which deals with money laundering supervision of auditors and the financing of supervision, I also think that we should at least be able to take the debate on whether this means that the parties in question disagree with increased money laundering supervision of auditors and real estate brokers and/or whether one disagrees with the financing of it. Because it costs something, of course, and it is an existing principle in other sectors where you have to be approved to pursue your profession, that you also help to finance the money laundering supervision that is in your own area. So I think it's naturally part of the package that's here now. I don't want it to fall down on whether the bill can be split up. I think we should just get ready to be able to talk about what we want out of it, including those parties that wanted exactly that. But all in all, thank you again for the positive reception of the bill. I look forward to working with you in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141438	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141440	Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments on understanding this, so the amazement that companies have to report the same number twice because different dates are used. And I actually think we have to make a choice here in the Folketing. The minister says: yes, but I wonder if there will be some system adjustments and some IT solutions that will make it easier for business to report these figures. It is fair enough that the Minister has the approach that it is then the private sector that has to solve the problems. You can also choose the opposite starting point and then say: Well, listen; we think it must be the systems that try to take the extra step to prevent companies from having trouble reporting the same number twice. And there I hope that the Minister will really get involved in the work of the committee in order to find a solution, so that we show the business community that we are actually trying to reduce the administrative burden instead of expecting them to solve the problem for us. The second point I would like to make is that when the draft law has been submitted in two rounds, it is not so difficult to see that the legislative proposal is also included in the two parts, which have been submitted separately in consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141601	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141602	Okay, well, we can easily split it up. I am just saying that I think that in those parties that want to divide it up, at least you will have to answer the question of how to deal with the part that is being distributed or what to say. One must then be able to give an answer as to whether one disagrees with the fact that the fee financing of the money laundering supervisory authority with auditors must be there. And if you think it should be there, you should be able to give an answer as to whether or not you disagree with the financing model which has been put forward here and which I think you know from other sectors. Then I would like to say that I basically agree with Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen in that we all have to be able to bow to each other and help make these things move. You should not just park the responsibility of one sector, i.e. if this had been a very heavy burden on our business community. My impression is only quite clear that this is a very limited extra burden, and therefore not something that I let go of, although one can of course say that it is the private systems that have to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141714	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141715	That is why it is sometimes good to have some principles and to say that you do not want to make it more difficult, even if it is only a little cumbersome, because then you discipline yourself as a politician in order to avoid putting extra burdens on business. I think this is a very, very strong and effective weapon in order to prevent a whole range of small measures from being seen as straining. I have to say that the consultation answers that have come to the part of the legislative proposal relating to the financing of fees also raise some questions about the fact that this is not the same way as in other areas. The government has chosen to do this as part of the Finance Act. We could have had a discussion in the financial conciliation group. It's the government that has chosen to deal with it this way. The government must take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141757	But I do too, of course I do. You could have gone about it in other ways; I think you can almost always do that with every case. And if there is still a desire to split up the bill, we will be happy to help with it. The political debate will then end, and we shall then have to deal with it in committee. And then there's this whole thing about how it's just gonna be a little difficult to have your principles. And if we do not think that the model I am outlining is workable, then at least we need to have some very big discussions about dates for accounts, tax administration, etc. However, the committee's work will probably not be complete.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141838	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141910	The debate is open. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218141914	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here contains a number of amendments or adjustments to the Su Act. First of all, the bill follows up on the agreement on vocational training of November 2008, which was concluded by a broad majority in the Folketing. In Denmark we need more skilled workers. Danish companies will lack 70,000 mechanics, electricians and other skilled workers towards 2025. If business cannot get the manpower they need, we risk companies moving abroad or having to refuse orders. It will make Denmark poorer, it will cost jobs, it will cost welfare and it will not. That is why we need to set all the stops to find solutions to get even more people to take a skilled training course, and one of the handles we are turning at is this bill which makes it possible to receive training courses for vocational training courses which are offered as full-time training. The admission courses are for adults aged 25 years who wish to apply for vocational training and who do not comply with the applicable admission requirements. It will facilitate access to vocational training and make it more attractive for more people to start vocational training, and it will boost more people from being unskilled to becoming skilled • it is good for both individuals and society. Last time we were in government, we carried out a major reform of our vocational training programmes, such as: This involved access requirements and several teaching hours. With the recent agreement on vocational training, we have strengthened the quality of the basic courses so that fewer people will fall away. In the consultation responses to the draft law, several stakeholders are very positive about making access courses for vocational education and training eligible. This means that the legislative proposal has the backing of those who work with the legislation in practice, and that is very nice. Among other things: A legal framework is provided to ensure that in future students can only have one su-loan at any time and that the repayment of the su-loan is suspended during the training period. It has always been practical, but in the past there has not been the necessary legal basis for doing so. In addition, an increase of 7% will no longer be added. In this context, it should be pointed out that, in order to be able to make the payment, the requirement is not due to the fact that the person seeking the training has earned too much in addition to his job. Used su-clips are carried to the clipboard in connection with the refund requirement so that they can be used at a later date unless the refund requirement is due to the fact that too much has been earned next to the su. All in all, as you can hear, the draft law contains some good measures that contribute to better harmonisation of legislation and practice. That's why the Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142154	Thank you. As there are no brief comments, we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142202	It is quite rare, in fact, that I can stand here on the platform and say that I largely agree with what the Social Democrat rapporteur has just said. This was an excellent review of the draft law before us, and I should just like to point out that it supports the Left. We think that these are a number of sensible changes and adjustments, and simplifications are also involved. And then last but not least, that's what Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg made the most of it, I would like to stress that this is also a follow-up to an agreement reached under the previous government, namely back in November 2018. And that agreement is precisely about making it more attractive for young people to choose vocational training. And we hope, just like the Social Democratic Party, that we will contribute with this small bill. As I said, we support the draft law and hopefully look forward to a speedy and flexible committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142338	Thank you for the floor. I would actually like to begin by agreeing with both the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialist rapporteur that this is a good little practical proposal. One of the things we attach great importance to is that we push the right direction in relation to vocational training and give some opportunities to some of the young people who may have had very poor experience from their school programmes. When, at a less young age, they want to enter the vocational school and lack the basic skills in Danish and mathematics, they can get them to the school they still have to attend afterwards. That's really good. And in relation to the adjustment on Su loans: Well, that's pretty obvious to do. This is a practice that we are now legalising. We in the Danish People's Party also think this is the right way to go, so I would actually just like to say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142432	Thank you. There are also no brief comments, and the next one we have as rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142444	Thank you. I also think it is a very good bill that lies ahead of us. In general, I think that makes sense, for example. When it comes to su loans, you have one su loan. It also makes good sense that this is actually what we have in our law, since that is how we do it. Like all the others, I am also very pleased with the political agreement of November 2018, which means that this law can now also give people access to vocational training courses before they can be admitted to vocational training. I think that is a very, very good step in the right direction towards getting some young people to come in the right direction. Then I am also really glad that we can make the change in relation to foreign grants, so that it does not become so square, just because a country has a slightly different step-by-step division than we have here in Denmark with bachelor and Master, so if you have an education corresponding to the level to which you are looking for a foreign grant, it makes sense that we have the flexibility of our system. We would like to support that Danish students travel out and take new knowledge home. And that's why I'm really glad that part's in here too. Because it's a great opportunity we give to our young people. These are very good changes, and that is why we naturally also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142628	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142634	Thank you. In SF we also support the bill and are happy to have some corrections made in relation to su-loans. We are also happy about the fact that you can get a foreign scholarship if you want to go abroad as a Danish student and then, of course, that you can get su while taking these courses to enter the vocational training programmes. It is important for us not to be restricted by your economy when you want to take an education. So we're backing up, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142704	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142709	Thank you. I am so proud that we live in a country like Denmark where you actually have a su system. Because I think su is a pillar of our welfare society. This helps to ensure social mobility, to ensure that all young people have the opportunity to take an education that makes them independent of their parents and that allows them to actually focus on the study. That is why I think it is so important that we cherish our su system that we stop cutting off our su and that we actually improve it. This bill is actually a small improvement on our su, so we are of course also supporting it in the Enhedslisten. This proposal is good enough, you might say, a mixed bag of candy. It contains changes in the rules on the possibility of supplementary courses, stays abroad, repayment of sus and su loans, etc. But all the sweets are edible to us in the Enhedslisten, so we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142824	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218142828	It is not so difficult to agree in this Chamber on this lovely sunny day. The proposal here is an extension of our agreement from November 2018 by the former government of VLAK • From specialized school to skilled staff. We support the fact that it is now possible to give access to vocational training courses and also to those over the age of 25. What we are just seeing is that more than 25 years are actually going into vocational training, and they are doing so much more than those who are 15-18 years old. I also think it sends out a good signal that our vocational training is therefore not the second best place to go as a young person, or when you are in the 20s, but an education that gives qualifications to enter the job market, and that is why the admission courses are also important, and so they must also be admitted to su. Then there is a simplification of the refund requirements. It is always nice when something can be simplified and when the rules are made easier to understand, because we have enough rules, so we think that is good too. In addition, there is the foreign grant, and we can only agree that it is good for our young people to get out. We also have international students here, but it is good that there will be more flexible opportunities to study. Similarly, within the creative and artistic subjects there is not the stage division, so it may be easier for them to get to Florence or elsewhere to study. We think that is excellent. Last but not least, we do not see that it has any particular or significant economic consequences, but on the contrary there is perhaps an economic saving in relation to the administrative, except for some one-off investment for IT. So, yes, we are only happy with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143036	Thank you. Well, we all agree so much so far. I can say that we agree with the Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Conservatives, so things are going very well. And there is good reason for that too, I think. As several other rapporteurs have also said, this is, of course, about simplification and adaptation, and not least it is about making it more attractive to go to vocational school, which I think is something we need to do much more about, in other words how we make vocational schools more attractive. The entrance to it, i.e. the step up to the vocational schools, has been reduced with this proposal by the fact that these admission courses can be obtained. So it's only really good. Then I think it was also really, very important what the Radicals said, namely to highlight that it also makes it easier for students to go abroad. Equally important to me and to the alternative is that we strengthen vocational schools, just as important is the strengthening of internationalisation in our education system, and so does this proposal. There are only good things to say about it, so it must be nice to be a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143148	Looks like it. Thank you to the rapporteur for the alternative. I do not see New Citizens' rapporteur in the Chamber, but I see the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Welcome to sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143158	Thank you for the floor. Yes, it is true that this bill is a follow-up to the agreement that was made in 2018 on vocational training for the future. And it was an agreement that was made under another auspices, namely under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, so since it was another rapporteur, I can tell you that champagne was toasted in the minister's office among all seven rapporteurs because we had defeated the Ministry of Finance. So that shows how incredibly good an agreement is here. We support, of course, that the agreement that we ourselves have helped to conclude is being followed up. It was a very good agreement that improved vocational training, and that must be followed up, so it will, of course, also be supported by it. The New Citizens' rapporteur has unfortunately become ill. That is why he is not here but he has contacted me and said that New Citizens also supports the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143307	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. All the rapporteurs have thus declared their position, and now it is the turn of the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143321	Thank you. And thank you for your very broad support. Previous speakers listed all those with whom they agreed. I will not do that, and I will just look at the assembled state of political colleagues and say that it is good to be able to have the broad political understanding to go this way. Mrs Mai Villadsen says it very well: it is a mixed bag of candy, but it is some good candy. To outline that map, we will have a number of changes made. We follow up on the agreement from 2018 about the vocational education and training courses it is important. We're laying down the rules to have only one su loan. That is what we have done; now we are also getting the legal basis for it, and that is probably a good idea. It is therefore very important that the administration of the su-loan scheme should continue to make good sense to those seeking training, and this contributes to this. And then the administration becomes simpler and more up-to-date; it also benefits all of us, including those seeking training. No premium of 7% will be added in the future. on our refund claims, unless it is a matter of making too much money next to your su. And with this proposal, students will continue to have the used clips returned to the su-clip card when they have to pay back the su-su, unless the refund requirement is due to the fact that they have earned too much alongside their su-su. This means that the su-rocks can be used at a later stage. Then comes the part about foreign scholarship, including scholarship for study periods, on which the proposal contains changes, and an extension of the opportunities for students to obtain foreign scholarship abroad for a Master's degree abroad. This is also very positive. It will be possible in future to grant foreign grants to those programmes where the foreign educational institution does not have a clear division between Bachelor's and Master's degree programmes, as we know from here at home, but where the student can prove that it is at the master's level. I thank you very much for all the comments and support for it, and I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143554	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200218143610	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 19 February 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
