ParlaMint-DK_20200116100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill no. L 94 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 95 (Proposal for a law amending the law on chemicals and repealing the law on the processing of information on the use of plant protection products in agriculture). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased possibilities for requiring general housing in local plans by sealing up existing urban areas). Jacob Mark (SF) and Astrid Carøe (SF): Request no. 32 (In continuation of the agreement on an ambitious and binding Climate Act, will the government explain what initiatives will be taken by the government to ensure that the climate and sustainability agenda becomes an integral part of all our educations, from primary to higher education?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200116100049	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116100118	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 45 by Jep Bruus (S) and Jan E. Jørgensen (V), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 66 (S, V, KF and 1 DF (by mistake), 44 (DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, NB and LA) voted in favour and against. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. V 45 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 44 by Peter Skaarup (DF), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL) and Nas Khade (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question. We move on to the agenda, but as there are no more votes, we will take a break so that those who do not want to be in the Chamber during the debate have the opportunity to leave the Chamber in peace and quiet. Now, those who do not want to be here have had time to leave the Chamber, to the best of my knowledge, and that is why we are now embarking on the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116100337	The debate is open. Minister for Health and the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116100351	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution calls on the Danish Parliament to call on the Minister for Health and the Elderly to put forward a draft law which abolishes the request for referral from their own doctor for access to eligible physiotherapy treatment. As the proposal itself shows, this is part of the previous government's agreement with Dansk Folkeparti on a health reform from spring 2019. The government supports the intention behind the proposal. We agree that there is a need to relieve general medical practice, but the government cannot support this resolution itself. This is due to the uncertainties in the proposal, additional costs, which are also described by the proposers themselves. At the same time, we in the government have approved a pilot project in the Capital Region on precisely this which examines the effect of abolishing the referral requirement for ordinary physical therapy. The motion for a resolution suggests that the requirement for referral from a general practitioner to general physical therapy should be waived and that general physical therapy should mean the treatment carried out by private practicing physiotherapists, where the regions provide approx. 40% in the form of a public grant. The requirement for medical reference to treatment is, after all, a central building block in the Danish healthcare system, which supports a link in the course of treatment, a high patient safety and an efficient use of resources, and we should, in general, continue to safeguard this. But having said that, there are already exceptions to this reference requirement. For example: Most people probably know that as a patient you can go straight to an ear and eye doctor. The reference requirement can therefore be waived if there is good reason to do so, and I would not at all deny that in relation to physiotherapy there may be good reasons for completely or at least partially derogating from the requirement of medical reference. However, the proposers also mention that the general requirement for medical prescription for physiotherapists was abolished when the Danish Parliament introduced the Act of Approval in 2007 and that this should be an independent argument in order to remove the referral requirement. But I would like to mention here that we are talking about two different legal sizes. The Authorization Act regulates the functioning of the individual healthcare professional, and the referral requirement is, on the other hand, a management tool for treatment under the Health Act. That is why the two questions will have to be kept separate, and that was probably the message in one of the two answers back in 2006 to question 7 from the then Minister for Home Affairs and Health, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, to whom the proposers refer. I also note that the proposal is partly based on good experience in abolishing the reference requirement for physiotherapy from England, Holland and Norway. But there is of course a but, because we do not know whether international experience can be directly transferred to a Danish context. Because although we have a lot in common with other European countries, we are not doing things a hundred percent in the same way, not even in the health field. For this reason, I do not think that major changes in health care should be introduced on the basis of studies from other countries alone, without taking into account the specific Danish conditions. At the same time, the proposers will set aside 140 million. kr. It has also been recognised that the proposal will cost money and that the cost of physical therapy will rise significantly. This should be seen in the light of the fact that the total cost of regular physical therapy in the regions in 2018 was just over 430 million. kr., and with 140 million. kr. On top of that, it is a permanent cost increase of just over 30%. That is a marked increase. The financing must also be found in the agreement with the previous government on a health reform. As you know, this agreement was not implemented so it is new money which the Folketing will then have to find if the proposal was implemented, and it even emerged from the agreement with the previous government and the Danish People's Party on a health reform that it could be even more expensive as it says. Here it was agreed that it is also a quote from the agreement to provide any necessary additional funding, quote the end if the financial consequences differed from the assumed level. So this proposal envisages a considerable additional cost which could be even higher at a currently uncertain basis of experience, and that is one of the reasons why the government cannot support it at this stage. But that is not the last word on this issue because, as I started by saying, the government supports the intention behind the resolution. Because that's also the way we know in the Danish Parliament that if we just reject everything that is new, we can never introduce anything new. And in July 2019 we therefore approved a pilot project on the abolition of the referral requirement, which starts in the Capital Region this year. The project will include Frederikssund and Ballerup Municipalities with Gladsaxe and Gribskov as control municipalities, so you can compare the effect of changing the referral requirement between some places where you do it and some places where you don't. The aim of this pilot project is to explore the benefits of abolishing the reference requirement for general physiotherapy in terms of better economics, better and shorter patient cycles, relief of general practice and fewer references to imaging and specialist services. In other words, almost exactly the same as was proposed in the resolution in question, but here as the experiment that we have just approved on an experimental basis. This project period is expected to run from now this year until January 2021, and the Capital Region expects the project to be finally evaluated by the end of 2021, i.e. in just under 2 years' time. To round off: I do not at all disagree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we should look at precisely the reference rules for physiotherapy, and there are many sensible considerations in this motion for a resolution, which is also part of the pilot project in the Capital Region. That is why the government is proposing that we wait for the evaluation of the pilot project before deciding on any changes to the referral requirement for physiotherapy at national level. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101055	There are a few brief comments, and first of all it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101100	Thank you very much. I cannot quite find out whether the Minister is happy with the proposal or not, because when I hear the Minister talking about the project that has been put in place in the capital and which has just some of the same points, the Minister sounds very happy. After all, this is nothing new, and the Minister himself said that questions were asked about it in 2006. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have long been working towards, and especially given that we have fewer hands in healthcare, we also need to think across the silos in our sectors to ensure that we have hands on the labour market. I also know that the Minister cares about this when we talk about social and health workers and nurses, and get them, for example. Keep in the back, they must have some sick days and may also spend time going to a doctor to get a referral and then spend time going to a physiotherapist etc. etc. So I don't understand when we can do something on the short track that we don't strike right now and say, "This will relieve our doctors." From an article from before, I know that it is very many hours that go to it, so how does the Minister view the relief of doctors? Does the Minister himself have calculations on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101210	Then we need an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101221	Thank you for the question. It is quite true that the very point about the relief of general practice, i.e. the relief of the doctor you have, is part of the elements of the pilot project. It's obvious. In other words, in addition to the fact that patient-experienced quality is part of the pilot project, and which I will, at least as a starting point, expect to improve, there will also be gains to score and gain from the relief of general practice. How many it is and how it affects the economy can we learn more about when we have just a large-scale project with two municipalities that introduce it and two municipalities that are control municipalities so that patients can be compared, general practice etc. So I look forward to learning more about it, and that means that we can also have a solid foundation on which to make a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101322	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101323	That is to say, I can conclude that the Minister for Health does not want anything that we can do immediately across the country to relieve doctors and ensure that we as citizens can get into physical therapy more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101336	It can be concluded that the government will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution for the reasons I have explained. It must also be concluded that it is not a free round to introduce it here. It will have some advantages, undoubtedly, but there are also some costs which are rather uncertain, and it was also described in the previous government's Health Agreement that it was uncertain how much expenditure would actually increase. We'll learn more about that after the pilot project.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101406	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101408	Thank you. I would just ask the Minister to address a statement by the then health rapporteur for the Socialists, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, from 26 March this year. He talked to the Berlingske Tidende about this proposal from the then government and the Danish People's Party: • Social Democratic Health Rapporteur, Flemming Møller Mortensen, thinks it is a fine idea. We have a really pressured general practice. If you can ease it a little by moving some of the patients who needlessly come after a medical referral, you should do so. This is an initiative that we have also aired in the Social Democratic Party, so whatever government we have after the elections, this initiative will be implemented. So it wasn't true, was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101455	We must be careful to quote correctly. It is true that we in the Social Democratic Party both before the elections and today support the fact that we are working this way and becoming wiser. However, what our rapporteur said very precisely before the elections was precisely that it would be good for society if it were tested in an experimental system. And that is exactly the experimental scheme that we were set in motion in a region just a few weeks after the elections, or a few weeks after the formation of the government, at least approved by the government, and which is now being set in motion this year. That is to say, when we have this experimental system, we are wiser to know what the real price of introducing this is and where the real gains are, both for general practice and for patients. It should not be mistaken that the government supports the intentions, including in this proposal, but it is clear that we cannot, of course, support a very large extra cost without knowing exactly how much the cost is and where we can get the gains.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101557	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101558	There we have to have some kind of dialogue between the Minister and the Social Democratic Party on the one hand and then the Berlingske Tidende journalists on the other, and that must, like the conflict, be there, right? For Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen has been quoted as saying: "It is an initiative we have also aired in the Social Democratic Party, so whatever government we have after the elections, this initiative will be implemented. So I just need to hear: is it wrong, or is it not wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101626	I wasn't in the room where that interview was given. But what I can refer to is that even before the elections we have said very clearly from the Socialist side that we are in favour of it as a starting point. We have also said that we support the introduction of an experimental system which can then be developed for the whole of Denmark. And that is exactly what is going to happen in an experimental system. It's a pilot project. It's the pilots who fly first. And if it turns out to be a success, you can bring the rest of the country with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101659	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116101714	Thank you. The lack of practitioners is one of the major challenges of our healthcare system. It creates great insecurity among many Danes, and it reinforces the geographical inequality we unfortunately have in our health care. That is why it is also a top priority for the Social Democratic Party to do something about the medical shortage throughout Denmark. There is no simple or quick solution to the problem. The government has taken a first important step by creating 100 new main training positions in general medicine, and we need to tackle a wide range of tools at all if we are to tackle the problem and ensure more equality in health. That is why we also agree with the proposalers' ambition that we should relieve practitioners where possible so that more time is released for patients. And in this context, it is also obvious to look at the requirement that you should have a referral from your own doctor in order to gain access to public funding for physical therapy. We also share the opinion of the proposers that abolishing the requirement here and now could free up some resources in general practice, but there may also be consequences of the proposal which we do not yet know. Sometimes the doctor may discover something quite different from what the patient had imagined and had previously thought. In this way it can be a value that you have been by the doctor first. Nor are we aware of the economic consequences of the proposal; it is stated with uncertainty that it is 140 million. kr., but we don't know. The proposal does not specify funding, so the question is: if we implement this proposal, where is it that we have to find the money that we expect it to cost? In other words, we need more knowledge in this area and, if necessary, we also need funding if this is to be implemented. The Minister of Health gave back in summer the Capital Region of Denmark the green light to launch a pilot project in which the citizens of Frederikssund Municipality and Ballerup Municipality can apply on an experimental basis directly to a physiotherapist with public funding in the back without having to pass their own doctor. This project will then be evaluated next year in both the municipality of Frederikssund and the municipality of Ballerup, but also the Capital Region, and I look forward to it very much. Hopefully, then, we will all be much wiser on the prospects of abolishing a reference requirement, both in terms of health and economic aspects. The Social Democrats therefore want to wait for this evaluation before taking a final decision on whether or not to abolish a reference requirement. Against this background, we cannot therefore support motion for a resolution B 21, although we have sympathy for the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102022	We have to make it all. Mrs. Liselot Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102027	Yes, we must achieve everything, and we must also welcome the former health rapporteur, who was very pleased with this proposal. But I understand the current health rapporteur is not. I wonder when the Social Democratic Party is talking about equality in health, when you can see that there is an inequality today, by those who can afford to pay, going straight to physical therapy, getting their backs fixed, neck instantly and can avoid sick days, when others can only have a time with the doctor far in the future and go that way. That's not equality! Nor is it equality that you can go directly to a chiropractor, which also provides public subsidies, even though it is a little lower. I would like to ask the rapporteur: are the two things equality in health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102114	We have a huge inequality in our health system, and I see it as the greatest threat to our health system, one of the greatest threats to our welfare societies, and I think it is our duty to limit that inequality and combat the inequality wherever we see it. I see this proposal as an attempt to attack both, as the rapporteur mentions, the economic inequality, but in fact also the geographical inequality, which I also mentioned in my speech. So in this way I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal. But, first of all, we need to know more, and secondly, the money needs to fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102148	Mrs. Liselot Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102150	Then both the Minister and the rapporteur have said that the economy is not known. Is it true that when you make agreements with both physiotherapists and others in health care, you have an economic ceiling to keep?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102204	Yeah, that's pretty correct. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that the best estimate is that this is expected to cost 140 million. kr. We still do not know it, and there is no guarantee that we can give it to the Danes and that it can then be done within that framework. We don't really know. What I have not learned yet is how to finance this, because the motion for a resolution does not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102239	Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102241	Thank you. Of course, I wonder why the Social Democrats say one thing before the elections and then think differently here after the elections. But the reason why I am asking about the rapporteur's speech here is that I think some kind of mistrust was created about the ability of the physiotherapists to diagnose their areas of competence, where the rapporteur advocated that it was an advantage for patients to get past a general practitioner first. Is that how the rapporteur was told?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102320	No, it wasn't. I have no mistrust of physiotherapists, and what I'm saying is that I think there may be cases where there may be a doctor who discovers some things a physiotherapist doesn't notice. That is why I think there is so much sense in the fact that these two pilot projects have been launched in the municipality of Frederikssund and the municipality of Ballerup, which I and the Social Democratic Party will follow with great and positive interest and see what kind of knowledge we can get from this, what the health consequences will be and what the economic consequences will be. So on the day Parliament decides to remove the referral requirement, we can do so on a much, much safer basis. There is no mistrust in any way to our health care professionals. There is a great deal of faith and support for the work they do, but doctors and physiotherapists can do different things, and I would also like to see those elements clarified with these exciting pilot projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102423	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102425	Well, I just have to say that I am being confirmed in some kind of mistrust of the activities of the physiotherapists within their territory. It is precisely their main competences to which reference is made here. The areas where they can work independently are, of course, when it comes to the musculoskeletal system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102445	I do not like putting words in my mouth, which I have neither said nor meant, so I would like to have them rejected. I have no mistrust of physiotherapists or of doctors or of any other professional in our health care or care services. I just want to clarify the consequences of this before we make a decision in here at Christiansborg. And that is why I think it is absolutely excellent with these two pilot projects, from which we can gain some knowledge and hopefully get a lot of positive experience so that we can make decisions on an informed basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102523	There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102535	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having made this very good and, moreover, recognizable proposal here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which, of course, means that the request for referral from a doctor to eligible physiotherapy treatment should be abolished. In our view, such a proposal here, and to implement it, is an improvement in both the quality and the service of the individual patient. So we are in fact in favour of the resolution, which, as I mentioned earlier, is roughly identical to the proposal agreed by the previous government with the Danish People's Party in March 2019. We are, in fact, positive for a wide variety of reasons, and I would just like to highlight two here. First of all, I believe that it will result in a reduction in waiting times, from damage to muscles or elsewhere, until treatment begins, and this will often result in faster healing and reduction of collateral damage and, in fact, also in a shorter absence from the life that is, moreover, being lived. Secondly, the proposal is very much in line with the idea of establishing different health houses around the Danish country, including in the outermost regions, where different health professional competences can be exploited side by side. A trained physiotherapist can help and support patients with non-medical measures that relieve pain and help restore the patient's mobility and mobility, and a physiotherapy can in some cases replace the doctor's treatment and in other cases supplement the general practitioner's treatment offer. But the physiotherapist and physiotherapy I think it is important to stress that the patient's free and unimpeded access to the general practitioner will never be superfluous. In some cases, I think, such a little systemic resistance to the idea of referral-free access to physiotherapy is also ■ both if you look at the international experience and the experience we have from home after all, however, something unfounded. We believe in a model where there is cooperation with or without a physical framework, and in fact it benefits the patient. Both the Socialist rapporteur and the Minister have addressed the issue of the economy in this proposal, and we recognise that a new government has come forward that does not look so positively at the financing model we had in our health reform. We fully acknowledge that. If a majority in this Parliament does not suggest that it chooses to take a positive view of the principles of this proposal, we will, of course, engage constructively in discussions with the government on how we can promote this proposal, but also in the committee work that comes, clarify the foreign experience of referral-free physiotherapy and the experience that may have been gained through the experimental scheme in the Capital Region. We agree in principle with the proposals of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102907	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116102911	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for the reflections. As the rapporteur of the Left himself said at the end of his rapporteur's speech, it is not financed at all. If we assume in a thought experiment that the expected cost of 140 million. kr. If you want to roll this out properly, then that money has to be found. In the considerations which the Left has made about voting for this proposal and supporting it, have any thought been given to where this money should be found? Where is this, these 140 million? kr., or whatever it is, must be removed to fund this? That's the big question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103007-2	Yes, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, and you might as well ask Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, who, prior to the election of the Parliament, I quoted it earlier, said that this is something that is being implemented, regardless of which government is coming. So I assume that the Socialist rapporteur has at that time taken the same line of thought. So that's one part of it. The second part of it, and I think the Minister is quite skilfully forgetting that, isn't it? is that the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party in the first place states that the details of this proposal will, of course, be examined. And with regard to the 140 million. kr. It is true that it is in the text of the agreement. If the rapporteur talks to the physiotherapists and their organization, I am quite sure that they will probably think that that is what they are saying to me, at least, that this amount is probably something too much in terms of fulfilling the ambitions they have in terms of referral-free physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103103	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103104	The latter, in fact, merely confirms that there is, of course, a great deal of uncertainty about such a price. If we go through with this, we have to be ready for it to be cheaper. It's so easy to solve. It may also be more expensive, and it is a little more challenging to solve. After all, the rapporteur is throwing the ball back, even though it is the rapporteur who is standing on the floor, but the social democracy before the elections was actually positive about this, and that is also what you are hearing from us on the platform. That is why, with such great and positive interest, we will be following the two projects in Ballerup and Frederikssund and on the basis, hopefully, of becoming wiser possibly to implement it. But when the Left decided to back this up, I guess you've had some kind of conversation about where that money was going to be found. I need to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103153	We are now getting an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103154	Yes, because we had a political agreement with the Danish People's Party on these issues, which were also financed. Listen, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff: Now it is the Social Democracy that is in government. You want to do this or you don't want to do it? I don't think so. Will you run this proposal for referral-free physical therapy beyond the ice, or will you not? Now you've finally got the power, supported by good parties here in the Folketing, right? Now the power has been brought to bear, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said to Berlingske free from memory on 26 March 2019. Now we can go beyond the ice. So I don't even understand what it is, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and the Minister considerate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103230	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103232	Now it's just going to be a little interesting debate, this, for the question that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff travels is entirely relevant. All parties, it certainly sounds like most parties if not all parties agree that the intentions of the proposal are positive. However, if we are to adopt what it is now, there is no matter what some form of financing is needed. Therefore, it might be interesting if it is the case that the Left supports this proposal to hear where the funding is to be found. There I would like to hear a slightly more qualified answer than to ask the former Socialist Health rapporteur. I assume that the Left also has an answer on its own.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103315	Actually, I tried to say that before. We made an agreement with the Danish People's Party before the parliamentary elections, which was a health reform that contained incredibly many elements. After all, it has been a controversial reform on all sides. But there were also some funding elements in it. So we've financed this one time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103340	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103341	Now it is usually the case that if a motion for a resolution is tabled here in the Parliamentary Assembly, there is also no provision for specific funding in relation to what has been in some supposed past, if the world had looked different than it is today. Today we have a motion for a resolution in the Danish Parliament on which we have to take a position. Well, that's very reasonable to ask. If we adopt it here today and now the government has changed, and the previous health reform does not exist, then it has to be financed in some way. It is quite reasonable that you should just ask for: how are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103418	In fact, we still think that it is a good idea to carry out much of the health reform that we were going to vote on at the time. So, in that sense, nothing has changed for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103428	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103431	Thank you. I think I will join the choir of colleagues who insist that the Left also have a more qualified view of what the funding in this is. In other words, I am in favour of the fact that the Left has presented a reform before the elections, with a starting point for the closure of the regions and thus for the creation of a lot of fantastic millions, and, as such, also has a proposal to prevent a great many admissions, even though there was no evidence whatsoever that a lot of admissions could be prevented and a lot of money saved on hospital operations, for example. So now that the regions have not been closed down, and now that we have not had the health reform proposed by the previous government, what is the Left's bid to finance this very concrete proposal, which has then been taken out of a context that says: could we, in general, look at whether we could create a more efficient health service?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103532	I do not think I am very wrong if the SF has made proposals here in Parliament which have been based on an economic policy or in some reforms or in some economic proposals in general that the SF seemed to be a good starting point and a good source of funding for what the SF now proposed here in Parliament. It's kind of the exact same thing we're doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103555	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103556	Then, as a general rule, we have also had a proposal on where the money would be found. However, I believe, as the rapporteur himself notes, that there is a great deal of support to see whether this can be done more wisely. I can be in doubt about the 140 million. kr., as the previous government arrived at, is a real amount. I could actually imagine that it was cheaper. After all, however, this requires some calculations and some funding proposals in the end, so is that not just what we have to do? So just sit down and figure out how to do this wisely in the future, and not just insist that a bill be tabled in isolation about this, but look at it in a wider context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103638	Yes, and now I have some expectation that this motion for a resolution will be voted down in the Chamber. And then we have the benefit of seeing what the government wants in this area. And I look forward to seeing this because it shows its support in principle for a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. And then we'll have to see what the government wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103657	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we move on, and now it's Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103717	Thank you very much. I am going to echo what has been said many times so far, but it is an incredibly sympathetic proposal that has come from the Danish People's Party here. After all, we fully agree that we have a major problem with medical shortages throughout the country and that this problem is something we need to resolve. And here it is quite conceivable that it would be sensible to remove the reference requirement for physiotherapists, precisely because it represents a very large part of the consultations that are with the practitioners. So, like my colleague from the Social Democratic Party, we are also quite sympathetic to this proposal. Therefore, when I am a little reluctant, it is not because I do not share the ambition of the Danish People's Party here at all but because I lack something more basic knowledge before I can fully support this proposal. Firstly, as has already been mentioned, it costs something and whether it is 100 million. kr. or 140 million kr., is not really that important. But that money needs to be found, and we also need to make sure that this is the best way to spend this money in an already pressured health care system. So I simply need to clarify this before we can give our full support to the proposal. Secondly, we must also ensure that this is done in a way that will not adversely affect cooperation between physiotherapists and practitioners. We must ensure that there is proper dialogue so that we do not overlook other diagnoses and that we get the proper treatment of the patient. We all agree on this and, of course, it can be resolved. All we have to do is make sure that this is done in a way that solves it where it gets spoken. Finally, we must also examine whether the experience that has indeed been gained abroad can be transferred to a Danish context. It is in everyone's interest that the measures we are taking in here actually have the effect that we all want them to have. So we have to make sure that the processing is done, that we actually get a better health care out of it in the end. Then it is also worth noting, as has already been mentioned, that we in the Capital Region are in the process of carrying out a pilot project in this particular area where we are looking at what happens if we remove the referral requirement for physiotherapist. And I think it is quite reasonable to wait and see what experience we have from there before spreading it throughout the country. As I said, this is not because we do not agree with the intention. I think that can also be a very good step in the right direction. But we just have to do it on a completely enlightened basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116103945	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal that we as citizens should be able to address ourselves directly to the physiotherapist if we get a team in the back or in any other way consider that here the physiotherapist makes more sense than the doctor. In SF, we believe that in every way we must ensure that patients have as direct access to the right help as possible. We are already free to go to, for example, the ophthalmologist or the dentist, and it makes good sense that we can also turn directly to the psychologist or, as here, to the physiotherapist. These considerations have also been considered in the Capital Region, where a model is already being tested, where patients can turn directly to the physiotherapist. Many patients themselves have a very good sense of whether a reference to the physiotherapist makes sense. Many references can be obtained from your doctor per day. phone, and should we as patients misjudge the situation, the well-educated physiotherapists will pass us on to other specialties where we can be solved. Early efforts will often make a difference as to how fast we are back in health. The sooner you get started with treatment for, for example, a team in your back, the better. Most of us have tried to hang in the phone line for our own doctor or wait a long time for a while. The general practitioner is therefore also in a number of cases bottlenecks in relation to the speed of action, and if one wants the practitioners to perform other or more tasks in the near health care sector, it makes sense to move some of the tasks that the doctor himself takes care of, but where the doctor only refers the patient to others. The proposers and the previous government have estimated that direct access to the physiotherapist will cost around 140 million. kr. It is an estimate and a more accurate calculation will imply an assessment of whether more people will turn to the physiotherapist if they had direct access, including the need for possibly more external numbers, how much an investigation by the physiotherapist should cost, but also what is saved when the doctor does not charge fees for consultation for the purposes of referral and such. In SF we would also like to count on the possibility of less user charges for treatment by, for example, the physiotherapist and also like derived savings if early effort and training can prevent expensive operations or reduce the need for sickness benefits. We already know that some patients completely abandon the manual treatment of various disorders in the muscle and skeleton, simply because they cannot afford. Some of the patients will later be on the operating table, where the treatment is both more risky, more intrusive and more expensive. It's crooked. I therefore hope that there will also be support for us in the committee to perhaps draw up a report which will allow time and space to develop the proposal in a comprehensive solution for the benefit of patients and, of course, not least in order to be able to give funding as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104243	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104246	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his positive report on wanting to make a report. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur, as many others have said, will just wait for an evaluation in 2022, or whether a report will look at the possibility of funding for next year's financial law to be made later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104313	I always think it's a good idea to try to catch up with all the experiences you have around. However, as I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech, I think that the proposal can be developed even more and looked at whether it makes sense to pay as much as it is today, for example, to go to the physiotherapist, even though it is both better and cheaper than, for example, in the long term. an expensive operation. So I really think the proposal deserves to be dealt with in conjunction with the rest of the health service. And that's why I would be sorry in isolation just to say that now we're doing this, but try to see it in a larger context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104353	Liselott Blix, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104354	This is not a new proposal. I had it up 10 years ago in this hall. A large number of questions have been asked, which are calculations from the Ministry of Finance. So this isn't something new that you're about to investigate all of a sudden. And that is why I am surprised when the Socialist People's Party stands and is a support party to a government that can act now but does not do so and that keeps talking about inequality in health, but pushes things ahead. How will the health rapporteur ensure that some of the health contributions you want to make get started while you are a support party for a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104430	So, I have the expectation that the government will, at some point, also call for discussions on a health agreement. And I don't think this just eliminates health inequalities. In other words, the great inequality in health compared to treatment in a physiotherapist is, for example, the user fee that makes many patients opt out of it. The Danish People's Party itself claims that this costs 140 million. kr. I already think there are a great many examples of that figure being perhaps not true either. So now let's sit down and find out what it costs and where the good derivative effects are, what might also mean that we could make this fly right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104511	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104512	I think that some very positive words came out of the SF rapporteur's mouth earlier, which was about seeing things in a context and about the expectations that the government is calling for negotiations on a health agreement. Is the SF's rapporteur impatient with the government's speed, what is to be said, in calling for negotiations on a broader agreement in the field of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104539	SF is always impatient when it comes to focusing on how we can improve health. I think it needs to be done. I think there are very many places that suffer from too little resources, too much hurry and suffer from too many patients falling between two chairs. So, yes, we are impatient and, of course, we are trying to address that where it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104601	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104602	Then I just have two questions. How does the SF really feel about this, in other words about getting the government to call for negotiations on a broad health agreement? That was my one question, and my other question is: can the SF come in any way or method in which it might be possible to press the government even more to get started calling for these negotiations? Or rather, what is the SF doing to push in relation to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104630	I am quite sure that negotiations will be convened. We are six months into a period of government, and lure me if we cannot look forward to the fact that we are just being called in. However, I would also like to say that I think that when we do this we should also have prepared ourselves for the fact that we may also be able to land very good, solid and broad agreements, just as we are in the habit of doing so in the health sector. Because it actually matters that the agreements we make are broadly based, so that they are also long-lasting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104700	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116104710	Thank you for that, President. We have a health service which, in addition to a skilled and dedicated staff, is characterised by the pressure on time, resources and tasks. At the same time, we also know that the pressure will increase in the near health care sector in the near future, both because patients are being discharged more quickly from the new super hospitals, but also because more tasks need to be solved because of demography. That is why it is absolutely crucial that we strengthen preventive action in the coming period, reduce health inequalities and ensure the best possible use of the health professional competences we have in health care. That is why it is also basically a very sensible motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party for today's debate and thank you for it. It points precisely to strengthening preventive action, reducing inequality and making the best use of health care skills without compromising patient safety. The proposal aims to ensure direct access to physiotherapy without a prior referral from your own doctor. a model used in both Norway, Scotland and the Netherlands. We know that the group of citizens with muscle and skeletal diseases is very much in the close health care system. Over 20%. of all consultations with your doctor concern neck pain, lower back pain and osteoarthritis. Of course, not everyone will be able to receive adequate treatment from a physiotherapist, but a great deal will, and the high professionalism of authorised physiotherapists ensures that patients who need further help are referred to treatment by their own doctor. This is already happening today in the many patients who go to physical therapy without reference, but only with full self-payment. That is why the proposal could also help to reduce inequalities in health, because access to direct treatment without reference is not restricted to those who can afford to pay for it themselves. That is why we fully support the intentions of the proposal. When we cannot support it immediately, as it is here, it is because we are facing a new health agreement that is expected to be landed by 2021. It will focus precisely on the areas mentioned here. That is why it would be sensible to see it in a context in which it might also be thought that there should be a shift in tasks in other areas. That is why we think it is most sensible to wait for the negotiations on a health agreement so that we can have a comprehensive and coherent plan for the whole of the close health care system. Of course, the proposal for direct reference to physical therapy must be included here. It will also have the advantage of seeing what experience is gained in the Capital Region, which has just introduced the model as an experimental scheme. This will provide a clearer overview of how many patients will apply for the scheme and how much the practitioners will be relieved of the burden, however, with the reservation that the trial period in the Capital Region is relatively short. But it will give a much better picture, also of the economic consequences of the proposal, which in this resolution is surrounded by a certain degree of uncertainty and which, most importantly, does not point to any kind of funding for it. That is why the Enhedslisten does not support the proposal in its present form, but we support the intentions and we look forward to the work of the committee, where we hope to be able to produce a joint report. And then I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they cannot support the proposal in its present form either, but also look forward to us perhaps having a joint report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105036	Thank you. There are brief comments, and that is first Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105040	Thank you very much for your fine words. So I can't help laughing at Enhedslisten, who talks a lot about economics. I've been inside this hall a lot of times, where you've come up with something that hasn't been financially justified. In fact, here we have our health reform, where we had financed it all, and that is how it is; we have different policy areas and different ways of financing it. I just want to know if Enhedslisten will work for something to happen to the Finance Act you want to make in the autumn, or if you want to see what something new for me to land a Health Agreement in 2021. It's nice to know from the Enhedslisten. Why don't you do something now when you have the chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105129	First of all, I need to correct Mrs Liselott Blixt. I very much doubt that Mrs Liselott Blixt has ever experienced that the Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution which does not include any specific funding. I think it is a very good principle that when you go to the Chamber with a proposal that costs money, you also show where the funding can come from. I also know that the Enhedslisten has sometimes voted against a resolution in which we agreed on the content but have not been able to accept the funding. That's what we do when we put things forward here in the Folketing: It's both about what we want to spend the money on, but it's also about where we want to find it. It's just to get it right. Then, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I would like to say that we are going to have to negotiate a new health agreement, and I assume that this will be in 2021, because the challenge we are facing must be addressed. That is why I think it is absolutely essential that the element of direct reference to physiotherapist should be included in the negotiations and therefore also in the kind of funding that is to be found there. I think this is an excellent proposal and I am quite sure that it is something that we will have to introduce at some point, but we must ensure that it is something that is seen in context and we must ensure that it is something where the funding is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105244	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105246	In many of the proposals I am referring to, Enhedslisten has always referred to the fact that it is taken from the multinational corporations and other companies over tax, and that is how you finance everything you come with. So you could do that here too. Wasn't that something you could go to the financial law negotiations with? After all, money has always been included in the Enhedslisten for such proposals that reduce inequality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105309	The rapporteur is absolutely right about this. It has also been the case in the Finance Law negotiations here that several funding proposals have been put forward by the Enhedslisten. I do not think that this is true of the multinationals, because we knew beforehand that there was opposition to it by other conciliation parties. However, we have put forward plenty of proposals for funding which could ensure a boost that is substantially beyond what is laid down in the Finance Act. We are pleased with the financial law that has been made, but we certainly think it could be much better. So it is absolutely certain that for the forthcoming financial law negotiations the Enhedslisten will also present funding proposals to ensure that we can increase welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105345	Thank you. And then it's sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105347	After all, the Minister for Health must be commended for having completely managed his parliamentary basis. That is a good job; I have to say that. Well, there's no snitch in the waltz, and it's a super job. May I not ask, because I know Enhedslisten's representatives both here and here as incredibly thorough people, and now I hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur standing up there and giving his basic agreement, that is, almost down to the detail, to this proposal: what is Enhedslisten's proposal for financing such a unpaid physiotherapy reference?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105423	First of all, I would like to say to Martin Geertsen that it is possible to take the view that it is the Minister for Health who has completely managed his parliamentary basis. But it could also happen that the reverse was the case. But we can then see that there is some kind of agreement between the government and the parliamentary basis in this matter. It is clear that, when we talk about funding in relation to this proposal, and that is why we are not voting in favour of it today, we do not believe that we can look at it in isolation. So, there are actually some significant uncertainties about what this really costs and how much relief it will be for the general practitioners. That is why I think it is quite reasonable and, in other words, it was also in the government's health reform to see it in the context of a reform of the whole of the close health care system. Because I do not think that it is only in relation to physical therapy that we should look at how the practitioners should be relieved of their duties. I also believe that there are other areas that we need to look at in relation to this. That is why it would be very reasonable for us not only to pick out one element and deal with it separately, but also to look at it in the context and thus to find the overall funding to ensure it. For it is clear that our ambition, and that is where I think we have so much control over the government, that it will also be the government's ambition that this time we should not make a health reform that is underfunded. When we make a new health agreement, it must, of course, be funded in contrast to the health reform presented by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105543	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105545	I actually think it's a little more fun if that's the way it is, sir. Peder Hvelplund, who is in charge of the Minister of Health, so let's just agree that this is the way around the situation. Then I just want to ask 'cause you can have every sympathy for the whole thing about seeing things in context: Peder Hvelplund's patience with the government in calling for some negotiations? I mean, now that mr. Peder Hvelplund, in his own opinion, is so well managed by the government, how is it with Mr. Hvelplund? Peder Hvelplund's patience with the government in calling for these debates where health reform can be discussed in general, including the issue of unpaid physiotherapy referral?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105627	Well, we're always impatient to get things done and get results, and that's gonna happen in relation to this health deal. I think it is just important to make a new health agreement that is so far-reaching that we ensure that we have a thorough involvement of the parties concerned. This was one of the faults of the previous government's proposal for a health reform: that the parties concerned did not feel involved in it. There I think it is very important that we ensure that the parties concerned are involved in the work and that we ensure thorough preparatory work. And that means that, in the first place, I imagine that we should at least have a psychiatry action plan for the country, and as a successor to it we must have a comprehensive health agreement. Because it contains many of the same elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105709	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105711	Thank you. I can only confirm what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that the truth is probably somewhere in between that we are in control of each other. After all, we have a minority government in Denmark which can only implement what is a majority in favour of the Danish Parliament fortunately. And fortunately, we are succeeding very well, and I think we are seeing that today too. This is because we are so fortunate that we have a parliamentary majority who cares that the money should fit and that when we implement any policy, we must also be able to afford to implement that policy so that it does not just stick to words, but that it actually becomes a reality. In this way, it can be said, at least for me, that it is a rather unfamiliar situation that we are facing today, namely that we have some support parties that care about it, and then there are some that are at least particularly unfamiliar with the Left which are now going to implement policy unfinanced in a situation where we are talking about these relatively large and uncertain amounts. So my question to the rapporteur is: are we in this situation that I almost dare not take the words in my mouth that Enhedslisten is experiencing that in this particular case at least the Left is acting financially irresponsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105821	Now you could almost be tempted to believe that this was a leading question. In any case, I would like to say that this is the case, and it has always been the case that Enhedslisten is, of course, a financially responsible party. That is why, if we present motions for resolutions in this Chamber, we will also ensure that they are fully funded. And I can see that in this case we are presenting a resolution which is actually quite sensible in its content and for which we can hear that there is broad support, but for which a majority is not succeeding, among other things. because no funding has been allocated. There I think it would have been sensible if at least the effort had been made to present funding. Then it might be that we had voted against because we disagreed with the funding, but it is a political discussion. But all other things being equal, it is difficult to take that discussion when no funding is presented. So, in this way, it seems that the Left, when supporting this proposal, does not have financial responsibility, which means that you are asking: where is it that we are going to find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105917	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116105928	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a quite sensible motion for a resolution to lift the referral requirement for physical therapy, which then has to be evaluated after 3 years. This is a proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support, and we did so before the elections. The abolition of the obligation to refer will, on the one hand, free up the capacity of the general practitioner, where the medical shortage makes it possible for there to be a long waiting period to come to the doctor, and, on the other hand, it also saves the patient's time in relation to going to a doctor. It also makes very good sense to start diagnosing with a physiotherapist if you have a musculoskeletal pain, whether you have a back hold or a shoulder pain. This is precisely where we are at the centre of physiotherapists. If the treatment and training do not have the desired effect, the patient may subsequently consult his doctor. We also know that a great many citizens today use their health insurance for physical therapy. In other words, the proposal to abolish the obligation of referral also creates more equality in health. We would therefore like to recommend that the parties of the Folketing support the proposal and we look forward to seeing developments in this area. Does it involve fewer operations, which cost a lot of money? Are we saving money in the field of sickness benefits? And what other effects are there? It will be very exciting to see if it is the case that the proposal is adopted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110056	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110100	It's just a quiet wonder. I have what can be said to get used to a Conservative People's Party that would like the money to fit. I have also heard several Conservative politicians say that the money must be adequate and that things must be financed. I have also witnessed several Conservative politicians being merciless in their criticism if anyone stood up on the Parliament's platform and spoke in favour of implementing a policy that was not funded. So in my optics, this is a relatively new thing at the Conservative People's Party. How is this to be financed? And if it is not to be financed, if the parties that are going to vote through it do not want to finance it, how is this going to become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110202	When I saw this proposal, I thought, as a matter of course, that it was adopted. After all, I have been able to keep up with the debate on this for several years, and also to note that the social democracy before the elections was determined that this proposal was implemented, regardless of which government we were given. That is why I had also imagined that when we decided to abolish this obligation to refer back to Parliament, we would have to share the same funding. So there I think we have a joint responsibility to finance this kind of thing, what apparently was the consensus then I understand has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110240	Rasmus Horn Langhoff, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110244	I can just repeat the question and then hope to get an answer here the second time: how is it to be financed? If you vote for this, and if it is voted through, then the Folketing will instruct the government to implement this. And no funding has been assigned. Should we go knock this money out of the ground? Where's that money going to be magical? I do not see it in this proposal and I cannot hear the Conservative rapporteur say it. And then I just want to say: why not put a little cold water in your blood and look at this pilot project in the capital where you remove the referral obligation in Frederikssund and Ballerup and then have two other municipalities, Gladsaxe and Gribskov, as control municipalities, so we have a basis for comparison? The results of this will be presented next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110330	The reason we are a little impatient is that it is right now that we have so long waiting times with the practitioners. It is here and now that you will be able to free up some capacity so that people will be able to come to their general practitioner more quickly, while at the same time it will have some positive effects that you will get to physiotherapist more quickly than to wait for a long time. It's part of it. Then I have to say, as I said earlier, that I had imagined that we could share the funding in this area. It is not the case that it says anything about this proposal coming into force from today's date. If it is the case that we agree to vote this through, then we can help each other find the funding for the next Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110412	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110416	Thank you. I take note of the fact that, as the rapporteur concludes, we must achieve equality in health. Now the possibility of going straight to the physiotherapist as long as you have to pay is, in fact, more to make it easier for some citizens than it is equality for some citizens. I also take note of the fact that the rapporteur is in favour of the proposal, in view of the fact that we can save money. We can save money on operations, we can save money on sickness benefits, and I think that is true, by the way. But it also leads me to ask whether the Conservative People's Party will actually start thinking in dynamic effects in relation to future funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110459	Dynamic effects can be found in many areas. And yes, if it's the case that you can save some money... it can be on prevention measures... then of course we have to recognise them and help take the financial gain home, also because it's basically something that improves people's quality of life and improves their lives. So, yes, I think that you can easily take those positive effects with you when you talk funding in the health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110530	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110533	After all, it is in some other areas that you have to get the money, for example, if you talk sickness benefit. I think that these are new positive notes, because it would be a dispute with the method of calculation of the Treasury, as used today. So I just ask again: can I understand this as the Conservative People's Party is also prepared to look at the accounting methods of the Ministry of Finance in relation to dynamic effects in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110555	We typically have a very broken-down economy in this country. We have, for example. in the regions, but where the positive economic effect has been taken back to the municipalities. I think we could look at that in the long run, because many times things are stranded because of a lack of funding. And if it is the case that you save some money somewhere else in the system, then you should take those gains home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110623	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110626	Let me just quote the then Socialist health rapporteur, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, one more time in this Chamber. On 26 March 2019, Berlingske Tidende: • We have a really pressured general practice. If you can ease it a little by moving some of the patients who needlessly come after a medical referral, you should do so. This is an initiative that we have also adopted in the Social Democratic Party, so whatever government we have after the elections, this initiative will be implemented. ▪ When you hear Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff's speech, it sounds as if it is nothing at all that has been discussed in the Social Democratic Party before, or is Mr. Langhoff's speech. Flemming Møller Mortensen was misquoted. I don't think he is. What would the Conservative rapporteur describe this as? In other words, one might have thought that this is a pure breach of promise by the Social Democrats. What does the Conservative rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110721	After all, it is difficult to assess what has happened in the Social Democratic Party. I can only say that we have supported this proposal before the elections. Now there has been a choice, and of course we also support the proposal after the elections. That is how it is for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110736	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110740	Well, at least I think that sir... Per Larsen has to put a few more words on the fact that there is a party that says one thing before the elections and does something else after the elections, which characterizes the Social Democracy here. Can the rapporteur put a little more words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110754	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110757	I can only say that, of course, I am amazed at it. I came into the Chamber with the assurance that there would be broad agreement on this proposal. And I understand that there is no longer, and that is disappointing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110812	Then it's Mrs. Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110822	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of physiotherapists, for all the praiseworthy words. It's great to hear that our subjects have such great support from the Conservatives. Now I have a colleague up in Aalborg called Torben, and that is when we talk about equality in health: Torben is a trained physiotherapist, he has also read osteopathy and is very, very talented. He doesn't have a physical therapy clinic with an outside number because there aren't enough outside numbers, but Torben is very qualified. So if we are finally going to talk a little bit about equality, there is something I would like to hear from the rapporteur and the party's opinion on: since we have some physiotherapists who have an outside number and some who do not have an outside number, and the reference only goes to them with an outside number, that means that there is a whole segment of the population we are talking about here that cannot get their treatment. What is the rapporteur's view of equality with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110915	I can say that, for the Conservative People's Party, it is important to be able to make use of the healthcare that is available. And that is why I have often advocated ensuring sufficient capacity in various peripheral areas, and I believe that this should also apply to physiotherapy. If it is the case that there are capacity problems in this area, then you have to create some more outside numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110947	Mrs. Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116110953	Thank you. I have just one last point in relation to what the rapporteur started by saying: fewer operations and something about saving sickness benefit. Today there is already a waiting period at the physiotherapists, so I do not quite know how the free right of reference could make it possible for us to have fewer operations and fewer on sickness benefits. Because it probably has something to do with the behaviour of the individual patient and probably doesn't have to do with whether it takes 3 days or 5 days to get to physical therapy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111018	Now I do not quite know if I understood the question, but the short part is that if you start diagnosing with a physiotherapist, it might well be that the outcome of the process will be different from starting with a doctor. And so I do not have any evidence to say that this is the way it is. But you might imagine that there are some patients who are in pain and who are being treated in a way that makes them feel better and then maybe would opt out of surgery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111053	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111108	This is an interesting suggestion. Let me first address something. Well, now there's been such a debate about the thing about whether something is funded or unfunded and all sorts of other things. If it's 140 million. kr., we are talking about 0.1 per thousand of the money that the Folketing here has to do with every year, i.e. which is the state budget. And if there is a political will to do this, and if you cannot find and move around 0.1 per thousand of the state budget, then you should not be sitting in here and being responsible, I must say. So let's just drop this thing because it's the money it's about for 140 million. kr. You can move around. And if you can't move around 0.1 per thousand, you have a problem. When we're both positive and skeptical about this as it is now, it's because we want to know more about it. Something is about how many of these actually include, that is, how many will use this. We can see that we have a sharp increase in the number of PMIs. Just in the last two years, I think it has increased by 200,000 more who have now chosen to have a PMI, so we are up to 2 million Danes who actually have a PMI. What are the forecasts for the future? So it continues to increase, there will be many people who will be covered by it, and then the amount you would have to set aside for it will actually be smaller. And that's why this may have actually moved since you last treated it. So there are such uncertainties about the economy in it that a committee procedure or something else might come closer to responding to what this really costs. There are some who are then covered under private health insurance which more and more people choose, and I would say that it is not only highly educated people who choose it. There are also a number of public employees who receive private health insurance • commonspeople who have also now started to receive private health insurance. So it's also public employees who get these things. And that means they'll be covered underneath. In addition, we can see that some of these private accident insurances that cover actually cover this area as well. So these are some things that we would like to examine in more detail before we finally take a position on it. Then there is also a problem with physiotherapists. They do repairs for damage, but they also do preventive work. Should it also cover it if you think you have something or that you might get something? So there are such dilemmas and some limitations that we would like to look at before we finally take a position on a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111348	Thank you. I do not see any desire for short remarks, and that is why we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111358	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution B 21 proposes that the requirement to refer to a doctor of his own to qualify for physiotherapist treatment should be abolished. It is a proposal that we cannot under any circumstances support, nor will we ever support other proposals which provide subsidies for the treatment of diagnoses made by the patient himself. And there are some very fundamental reasons for this which I would like to use my speaking time to examine. The great American sociologist Talcott Parsons described in 1951 what he called the disease role. Parsons believed, among other things, that illness was a form of legal deviation. When you were sick, you were spared your normal roles and duties, and in return you were under an obligation to seek competent help and, of course, an obligation not to hurt any worse. But Parsons also notes that in many ways it is an advantage to get rid of your duties. And because it is an advantage to get rid of your duties, it is also necessary to have some kind of doorkeepers who carefully investigate who can be allowed to be admitted to the category sick. These doorkeepers who let people into the category sick are called doctors and they are very, very important. Doctors have the right to say that you are not ill, even if you feel sick, and it is, of course, a very important right to have for doctors. But they also have the right to the reverse: they have the right to say that you are both these rights and duties, so we have to stick to them. It is both morally and economically reprehensible to report ill if you are healthy, and it is dangerous if sick people think they are healthy and, for example, they are healthy. on this basis, they shall be allowed to retain their driving licence or aircraft licence. That's why we need a system of medically trained door guards. After all, the problem will not be less when it is someone other than yourself who has to pay for the treatment. It is a well-known fact that if you have to buy something for your own money, you think carefully before you make the decision. You're often more generous if you have to buy something for someone else's money. And that is why I have said in other contexts that Denmark will not be mature for socialism until the day comes when citizens can eat at a free buffet without gaining weight. Whether we are talking about conditions to be treated by physiotherapists, psychologists, doctors or others, the idea is that someone other than the sick person should pay for the treatment. And here it must be the case that there must be a very, very trusted doorkeeper who can let people into the category sick. Self-diagnosed disease in combination with tax-financed treatment is frankly a very dangerous idea. It can knock the bottom out of the state's finances faster than you can pronounce the word bankrupt. And that's why we have to reject this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116111734	Thank you very much. Thank you for the various reports. I think it got a little long-haired here at the end, so I think I should not comment on that. Thank you, however, to others who, for the most part, have been positive. It is, of course, a proposal that we have not seen in this Chamber for the first time. We all know this because when the spring, which we are waiting for, comes, you have to go dig out the garden, and before you look around, it says slam, and then you have a team in your back, and it hurts a hell of a lot. Or we know about taking a bath, and the bathroom is wet, and then it's gone, and then we're lying there and we're hitting certain parts of the body, so we're having trouble walking. We'll have to wait. The next day, we'll call the doctor if we can get through this phone lock, because it's the first goalkeeper to stop citizens from getting help, even though they may not be categorized as sick. When you get through to the doctor, you have to have a time. Some people are lucky and can have a time the same day because it is acute. Others may have to wait. Some actually have weeks of waiting, because it may be that it will pass within the next 14 days. Of course, when you have crawled to the doctor, the doctor presses a little here and there, and often you get a reference to a physiotherapist. Then you go home, and then you have to book an appointment with the physiotherapist, and it must of course be someone who has an outside number, and it may also take his time. Not all areas have physiotherapists who can take one right away. So it may be that you actually go home for several days and cannot get started working. I know from myself that a team in the back means that you cannot go to work in a hospital department where you have to move a lot of people or do other things that are straining. We know that it is difficult to get through in some municipalities. It takes time, and then, of course, there is the payment. Of course, you can choose to go to a chiropractor when you get hold of the back. It is direct and without reference, and the public pays too. They pay 20%. in grants. Of course you also have to pay at the physiotherapist... this isn't free... but you get 40 percent. In grants, when you have a reference. So shouldn't we in this time look a little bit at what we can do better socio-economically we need hands, especially in our health care and what we can do smarter so that we can relieve the doctor, so that we actually have the doctor for what they need to be there for, and make sure that others can get to, and that you in those parts of the country where there are 4-5 weeks of waiting may be able to come to the doctor a little sooner? That is why we in the Danish People's Party propose that we go directly to the physiotherapist, which we also included in the health reform that we presented before the elections. The way to do it was to say that you can go to the physical therapist and get five treatments. If it didn't help, there'd have to be a reference to. In this way, we also imposed a restriction. Of course, we also looked to other countries and looked at their experiences. After all, their studies showed that it will be considerably cheaper to allow patients direct access. First of all, you don't need the doctor's time. Secondly, the courses of treatment in the physiotherapist are reduced by direct access, probably because the patient is more quickly entering relevant treatment, and this is particularly interesting in view of the fact that there are many places in the country where it may take time to have a consultation because they are heavily tense. For the third, foreign experience shows that physiotherapists refer significantly less to unnecessary scans and specialist examinations. So there's money to save on this, too. What direct access will cost is, of course, something to be negotiated, and that is, of course, part of the practice agreement made for practicing physiotherapists. We have that today, and I am therefore surprised that we continue to say that the amount can go up and cost much more than what it says here. We have actually made a very large estimate, which we have already been told is far too high. So I am surprised that we continue to talk about having security for the economy when we look in many other areas at how we can prevent inequality in health; how we ensure that everyone, wherever you live in the country, can receive treatment; that we do what we can to keep people on the labour market. One of the things that makes it really difficult for the citizen is that every time we think about the economy, it is silo thinking. It's not about what society benefits from. Society benefits from healthy, healthy people who go to work and who do not need to spend time getting a reference to move on and get an appointment with a physiotherapist. Some of us are lucky. We can book an appointment with the physiotherapist and pay the cost. But not everyone can, for when you have to be there several times, it amounts to a larger amount. We know that the three most common reasons why the Danes go to a doctor are pain in the lower back, osteoarthritis and pain in the neck, that is to say, it is 24 per cent. of all consultations, a study shows. So this is really something we could make a really good effort to do. But I hear what the different parties have of opinions. I also know, of course, that many people are bound by the Finance Act and the agreements entered into with the government. I am just wondering why we have a government that has spoken so much for health and knows how much citizens care about it, but just pushes it all ahead. I believe that there is a health agreement that should be made in 2021 in one year's time and there is a psychiatry action plan that has not been negotiated either, and there is a dental reform that we have been talking about for several years. It is the health of the Danes that we are talking about, which is only constantly deteriorating. We also knew that something had to be done. That is why we presented a health reform in which this was part of that and it was funded. I can easily find economics if we're gonna take something here and now. We could take all the concessions that have been made by the government in the field of foreigners. There's plenty of money to take off. We can see from the municipalities what it costs with the refugees who live in the municipalities. When they have to make their teeth, it's not a problem to write $60,000. Out. But when one of those who works and works in our hospitals may get a hold of their backs, then they have to be on sick leave for several days, and then they have to go this heavy way instead of helping them immediately. I think it is sad, but I hope that we can have some committee procedure in which we are asked some questions. I think that the bourgeois parties actually had some pretty good questions in relation to something that could be worked on. That was really concrete, so thank you for that speech. And I think that many other speeches were doubly unilateral, because I could hear that we were positive, but because there is not just funding, or do not dare to say that we would like to work for that in the next Finance Act, it is said that it is our fault because we cannot find funding. We say that we would like to take the lead in finding the money to make a health deal so as to ensure that we free the time of doctors so that we ensure that patients are treated quickly and that we get a system that makes it smarter and that gives equality to everyone, wherever they live. But thanks for the chat.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112547	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112556	I should like to start by saying to the rapporteur: thank you for a good proposal, which is also a proposal that talks into an agenda which is very close to social democracy, namely inequality in health. So I would like to sign for that, and that has been done again. There will be an evaluation next year, i.e. in 2021 I think the rapporteur earlier came to say that it was in 2022, but it is therefore already in 2021. And if it shows that it's all awful and so on, then we can't. But if it shows that there are actually some really exciting perspectives in it, then we can do this together if there is political will to do so. And if so, when the time comes whether it will be the Danish People's Party making a motion for a resolution or whether it is the government or other parties making a bill or how it will be so let us make sure that the funding is ready. What I'm dealing with is not just whether it's an estimate, because it can go one way or the other, I understand that. But in any case, it has to be financed, otherwise it will not happen. We cannot implement policies for which we do not have the economy. I'm gonna leave it at this comment... it's really just a receipt and a request.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112703	The rapporteur, please,
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112706	Thank you. I heard another rapporteur say from up here that it was in 2022 that the evaluation will be carried out, so that is where I took it from. I'm really glad it's going to be 2021. I look forward to seeing that if there is no majority in favour of this, which I can feel is not going to work towards this happening in the future, if the evaluation shows that it is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112724	Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112728	Thank you. Once again, thank you for an excellent proposal which I think we should support. I just have one question, and this is about the five references. And then when I've been there five times, and it turns out that it takes seven more times, I'll have to see the doctor in the middle of the process. What is the rapporteur's reason for proposing that this should only be five times?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112810	Thank you very much for the question. That was one of the things we agreed on in the context of the reform of health. We asked some officials who calculated the estimate, and they said that, just as to circumcise the economy and also ensure that you did not go with other ills, it was important to make a distinction, so as to ensure that a doctor gets over it if you fail something else. So they were five times something we were recommended and included in the health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112839	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112845	Thank you. When you look at the proposal, it is five times that you can get subsidies. The health insurance subsidy is about DKK 113, that is to say, DKK 565. a year. What would DF say if we now gave the individual citizen a tax reduction of DKK 565.? It is said that there is no money for it, but in that way you could finance it yourself and then there would be free choice for everyone. So if we just lowered the tax by 565 kroner. per people in Denmark, we would be able to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112925	After all, this is a hypothetical issue, and now I am not a tax rapporteur or a financial rapporteur, so I could mention many areas where I would both raise and lower to make it fit in with health, but I will leave that to them. If I didn't touch the tax thing, I might have set it up to get some more money for the health service instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112943	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116112946	It's also fair that you don't want to touch the treasure. But when I bring it up, it is precisely because there is no funding allocated to it. And then I think it is fair enough that we are talking about where we could find the funding to get the same result. Because that's what's important. If we give people a better chance of getting to a physiotherapist, I guess it can be hip as a snap, whether we do it one way or the other. In other words, whether it is the state that ensures it or whether it is only the citizens who do it of their own free will, I would like it to be the citizens who can do this of their own free will and who can make these choices. I am referring to this because there is no provision for funding. And then I say that if you lowered the tax, you could actually have found the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113023	Now there are many rapporteurs who continue to say that no funding has been allocated, but there is. We created a proximity fund that was to be part of our health reform, and one of the things we included was that we had to prioritise public investment for 2.3 billion. kr. Of these, we could find 140 million. kr. Danish Regions have a fortune of 300 million. kr. lying down. I don't know if they still have that, but they did then, and it was also something we brought into the proximity fund. So there was a lot of money in the proximity fund there was over 8 billion. kr. kr. So this is funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113055	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113102	Is it a principle for the Danish People's Party that some must feel bad for others to feel better?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113107	No, I think that this particular proposal makes us put people more equal, rather than some of us who can afford to pay, while others have to go a long way and be sick and so on. in order to be able to get into treatment; in order to be able to afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113119	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113125	I think this is all very sympathetic. But what I am falling over is that the Danish People's Party can hardly make a proposal without saying when it is rejected: you can just not do it better for anyone. You can just make sure aliens feel bad so that the rest of us can feel better. And I feel so personally that I think there is nothing worse than playing the vulnerable, the sick and the exposed against each other. And that is actually what I think Mrs Liselott Blixt is doing here. It is not necessary to say that foreigners must feel ill in order to implement such a proposal. Or is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113204	But that is precisely what is the difference between the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. We want to help the Danes. We will help those people who have worked hard in Denmark and are still working hard to get it going, and not tell refugees and immigrants: Just come here, and you will get free social benefits, and you can get an apartment before anyone else. No, we want to help the Dane, and that's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113223	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113246	Since there is no minister in this area, it is Parliament's own responsibility, and we will therefore listen carefully to the debate on the proposal in the Chair, which will be dealt with later in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113300	Thank you very much. And that is exactly what makes it a little special: when it is a proposal aimed at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The motion for a resolution has been tabled here by the Alternative, and it is proposed to set up a three-year attempt at a citizen's thing. The citizen's office should not be given a mandate to make a decision or a bill, but can make recommendations here to the Folketing. At the same time, it is proposed that a fee be paid for participation in the citizen's office and that a group of experts be set up to evaluate the system of members of the citizen's office and, after three years, to assess whether the scheme should be made permanent. Here outside the entrance to the Parliamentary Hall there is a frieze running all the way around the Walking Hall. One place it says: "The lives of the people are the fullness of the law. In other words, we must ensure that we in the Parliamentary Chamber are listened to what is life in Denmark and the attitudes and currents there are. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome all ideas that move towards more involvement of citizens and that can complement the good and direct contact that we MEPs already have with the surrounding society today. It is important for us that new approaches to citizen involvement do not crowd out the very open and direct contact we have today between members of parliament, citizens and the further surrounding society we have. Civil involvement is good because it can generate political proposals that you may not get elsewhere. And, furthermore, it helps to create anchoring, debate and engagement across our society. Several initiatives and steps have been taken in recent years to create more citizen involvement in politics. A good example of this and the latest example of this is the new climate bourgeoisie, which was just decided in connection with the agreement on the new Climate Act. It's really interesting, and it's exciting. Climate bourgeoisie is in many ways what the alternative here also proposes, but narrowed to the green area. And that is why I think it is wise at first to wait for the climate bourgeoisie to get up and see how it works before we decide whether it is something that needs to be spread more generally. Another good example of citizen involvement is what we have already been running for several years, when citizens' proposals have been introduced. This also helps to strengthen the involvement of citizens in the political process. And if you can obtain 50,000 signatures for a citizen's proposal, then the Folketing is obliged to deal with a motion for a resolution. This is something that we, too, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, are discussing just now and it has shown that it is right and proper and sensible for citizens to have new opportunities to speak up. I will not fail to say that some of what I myself, as a politician, enjoy much in my everyday life is that we have very good principles for the fact that, regardless of what bill is being tabled here, citizens and all sorts of other stakeholders have a very good opportunity to be heard. That is what we call our consultation processes. That is something absolutely fundamental. And I have also thought before today: it might be interesting to try to see whether there was opposition to it when the broad consultation process that we have today was introduced. I think there should have been. However, in social democracy we are very open to saying that we need to look at new opportunities for citizens to speak, but at the same time we must be careful that this is not something that is going to harm what I am saying is a very open and fundamental dialogue that is between parliamentary politicians and citizens already today. However, the Socialist position is, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we reject the resolution here. We already think that there are good opportunities and that exactly the climate bourgeoisie that has been decided must be allowed to drive. It needs to be evaluated, and we will then take account of the description of whether it should be disseminated more generally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113818	First of all, I would like to say that it is good to hear that social democracy is open to discussing the possibility of a more permanent citizenship. As I have said, we are proposing an experimental period of three years, and what in this proposal separates the citizen thing from the climate bourgeois thing is, of course, that the climate bourgeois thing has been defined in advance by the government, but what we are proposing here is that the bourgeois thing itself defines what themes they will tackle and work on when they are in session. My question to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party is whether we can be open to the fact that, when we send this over to the UFO, we are still working on it and discussing what an attempt might look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113910	I have said that we think that we should let the climate bourgeoisie be our attempt. We have already decided on this politically, a framework that is very free in what is the green area. Yes, there is a limit, but the whole green area is, after all, very large, complex and incredibly wide. This is what we think should be our pilot project. We have decided politically, and with this in mind we can take stock of whether it should be extended further. So I think we are in the process and what the alternative has had as a wish has also been listened to, and we on the part of the Social Democrats think it is interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113950	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116113953	I also hear that there is openness on the part of the Social Democrats to discuss how, on the one hand, we can stand up for representative democracy and, on the other hand, we can complement it and develop it and continue to have this curiosity, in terms of how we can make democracy more alive, how we can involve citizens much more directly, how we can make decision-making processes more transparent. So I hear what the rapporteur is saying here as a signal that there is a willingness to keep looking at our democratic processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114033	Yes, and I actually think it makes sense today to go out and read what is on the frieze here outside the Chamber. It's been 100 years since it was written that the people's lives are the fullness of the law. We are committed to this and, if we feel obliged to do so, we must of course also always see it as a dynamic development, how to get people involved in democratic processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114102	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114109	I think it is very beautifully quoted. There are so many other things out there that are quite subtle and worth thinking about. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: if it is to be a dynamic process that we are constantly trying to expand and improve democracy, should this not be done through some experiments and experiments? The alternative now points out that there is an opportunity here to work a little differently than in the climate bourgeoisie, which is very focused on a relatively large amount of effort, and the other could work in parallel with it. It is not, of course, a big billion investments. So why not let things unfold and let the flowers blossom a little more freely instead of just saying: I know a quote, and we have done a little, so we should settle for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114157	I actually think, sir. Christian Juhl expresses exactly the same as what I have stood for here, namely that it is important that we get experiments started, that we get tests done by experimenting with things. However, I believe that there is an improbable parallel between what we have decided politically in relation to the climate area and the climate bourgeoisie, and what the alternative is proposing here, which should only be within a broader framework. It is also the alternative that has brought it into the negotiations on the Climate Act, which is why I think I can also see that Mr. Uffe Elbæk nods acknowledgment of the fact that there is parallelism. So we want to try things out from the Socialist side, and I think it is to write down the Socialist position when you say: why not just try everything? Here we agree politically that we are trying something, we are evaluating what we are making adjustments and taking a broad political debate on whether we should make it further. So it's on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114301	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114304	I don't think I said we should try everything. I think the citizens can find out for themselves, because there are a lot of things that should not be started from here. But something like this, which, like the climate-citizen thing, could give us some experience, I do not think there is any problem in setting off in parallel. No one is losing track, no one is getting lost and going in a different direction. I would like to remind you that we have had very good experiences with the citizens' proposals, and everyone, even those who were skeptical about it. I remember that there were some who were very satisfied and think it is a very good arrangement and that it actually works very well. People have really taken it into account, and almost all Danes who are interested in politics know the model and work very actively with it, we can see on the website. And sometimes it is possible to collect so many signatures that there will be a debate in the Folketing that is well received.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114404	The rapporteur said in his first remark that everything should be allowed to flourish. But now there is also a lot of reason to try things out, and it can be said that the climate area is not a tiny, narrow area, it is actually a very wide area. It is the whole green area that has a bearing on our problematic climate situation. That is why I think we have gone a long way and we have a broad agreement on it, and that is one of the things I think we are going to reap a lot of. Yeah, well, we've been trying to make a citizen's proposal, too. It is also widely known that one can also be critical and a little sceptical about new policy initiatives, but we are doing something about a citizen's thing, and we from the Socialist side expect a great deal of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114455	Then there's no more sign-ins. Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and then it's mr. Marting Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116114508	Thank you, President. In fact, it should have been a much more estimated member of the Left who should have stood on the platform here, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. But Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the rest of the thing must settle for me in this round. That does not change the fact that I will start by signing for the good intention behind the proposal. I think it is basically positive that we want to involve the Danish population in the work at Christiansborg. I think we all agree on this. Because it's the citizens, the voters if you want us to be here for, and I think that's important to remember in the work here at Christiansborg. Both in terms of policy development, in terms of negotiations, readings and when we adopt laws, motions for resolutions and other matters here, it is of course important to take part in the back of our minds. So thank you for that, sir. Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative. See, in Denmark we have had representative democracy since the first constitution was adopted, so when there are elections, we go down the voting box and mark our intersection with the candidate that we think is best at speaking on our behalf, whether it is in the municipal council, the regional council, the European Parliament or here in the Folketing. And if our candidate achieves elections, then we citizens will have to assess subsequently whether the candidate has earned re-elections. Yes, I myself have sometimes been challenged a little by that. More than 2,000 years ago, 6,000 ancient Greeks met 40 times a year in the open sky at the ridge west of Acropolis to vote by show of hands on laws and decrees. And democracy has, of course, developed since then, and perhaps fortunately. We no longer meet under the open skies and pass laws for it during these skies. And while more citizens have been given democratic rights, democracy has also become more representative: all those with authority can vote. We are here in the Folketing 179 representatives of the people who reflect Denmark, as Denmark looks and as Denmark is. And that is what we in the Left think is sensible and we want to stick to it. Against this background, I believe that, if it comes to the vote, it may also be that this motion for a resolution will have a different form. But that doesn't change the situation, and that's pretty much always true when Mr. Uffe Elbæk says that this gives rise to more general and fundamental reflections. And it also gives it to us and to me. I personally believe that democracy in our way of acting at home has been channeled through the political parties. And we can at least see our own membership in the Left that we may not be as representative as we used to be. And, of course, it calls on us as political parties to reinvent ourselves, if I may say so. Sir. Uffe Elbæk's own party is somewhere a result of that thought, isn't it? Well, can you make politics in a new way? And at least we in ourselves have thought about this: can we act and make politics in a different way than sitting around eating cheese sandwiches and drinking coffee in electoral associations, as we have done in, I had almost said centuries? So that's another reflection on this, sir. Uffe Elbæk, I think. Now, sir, you're wearing... Uffe Elbæk saw that reflection with him here in the Assembly Hall. And I think that much of democracy in Denmark works out in civil society. I mean, it's out there, democracy works too. It's out there, the new thoughts and ideas and that sort of thing pops up, isn't it? And perhaps I can, and perhaps it is more a matter of principle, be a little bit concerned that it really is such a reflection, as I hope, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk can also reflect on the fact that he is supranationalising the development of democracy in a new way, i.e. by putting it into the conventional framework of this heres, where it really should be out in civil society, out in the associations, out in the organisations, that one experienced real democracy; that which, if I may say, flourishes from below. So it is more such a concern that we end up in a situation where we are really getting state-made something that should actually flourish out there in local communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115016	Thank you. And there's a question from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115020	Thank you for the words of the Left rapporteur. So, I hear that the rapporteur is also concerned about how we can develop democracy, how we can develop party democracy, but also how we can have a better dialogue with citizens at all. What surprises me over and over again when we take these debates is that they say: this could almost be a threat to the supranationalisation of democratic processes. And that is exactly the opposite of what this proposal is proposing. It is, of course, on the one hand about standing up for representative democracy, as we know it today. I have enormous respect for the work that is going on here in Parliament and, on the other hand, about how we can continue to put in place the democratic system. How do we continue to develop it? And it is some other types of democratic process that are when you do a citizen's thing, where citizens are not represented as party members or have other special interests, but are represented by themselves and where you seek consensus. And what is my question to the rapporteur is: can the rapporteur see the difference in quality, or at least the difference in content between representative democracy, with the forces in it, and so that citizens come and find common solutions that they can recommend in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115146	I can see that very well, and there is in fact nothing which today, if I may say so, hinders communication between the citizens of this country and saw us as elected representatives. I could really be worried that you're making too narrow a channel here, couldn't I? That is to say, we already have pluralism. We're being affected every day. I hold tons of meetings. Will such a bourgeois thing really get out of hand in relation to the rest of the pluralist system, where we are, as it were, affected at all kinds of joints and edges and from all sorts of organizations and individuals? What status should such a citizen's thing have in relation to the rest of pluralist society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115239	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115243	We have, of course, looked into Europe and those countries which have tried to do so and which have also introduced it. And everywhere there are good experiences. So it has been seen in Ireland that the citizens' thing there has been able to move the political agenda, and in a very specific case it ended up allowing abortion, which for good reasons was a very, very sensitive matter, because it is a Catholic society. I would say that the kind of political debate that a citizen's thing may have can help to address some issues that it is very difficult for us to take in this case the representative democracy in this room.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115325	Well, I can just be a little bit worried about, as I said before, getting stuck with one model, and then you conclude: well, but that's the way we let ourselves influence; it's a citizen thing. In other words, I can be a little concerned that the institutionalisation is really counterproductive to what Uffe Elbæk would like to do, namely to promote it, if I may say popular influence on the political system, on which we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115354	Then one came from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115400	The rapporteur of the Left can look at the developments we have had. We can just think back 13 months. Then in this Parliament there was a very, very great protest against the alternative and Enhedslisten's proposals on climate action. Then came an election campaign where we had a huge debate, plus that there was a huge debate on climate around the world. And there came a realization. It went at a huge speed. Normally it would take years to come to the common realization that the climate was a problem. What if we had systematically had had those debates ten years ago and more seriously inspired such debates to get started in various areas? There are also problems that are still pressing away, which we are neglecting. There are opportunities in providing more room for democratic debate and also the development of politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115504	I think that Mr. Christian Juhl, in a way that makes sense, is that there is a political tone-deafness in here for Mr. Christian Juhl's views. I guess there's no official filter on it. I think the channels in here should be as open as possible. My concern was both addressed to Mr. Uffe Elbæk and Mr. Christian Juhl can be the thing about the fact that when you institutionalize things, things have a way of getting a form that, in fact, may help to prevent you from influencing in other ways than exactly through the institutionalised form that you have chosen to run here. I am just a little concerned that this will close off other channels of influence to the political system. I think that, whether you have a citizen's thing or not, the climate agenda that has been pushed through all sorts of different channels was at some point in here anyway, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115606	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115610	I certainly do not want to take credit for the climate being so high on the agenda. I would say that this is due to our clear youth. But I have been sitting there with interest and trying to read back to see what different parties have said, because I find it exciting that it can happen so quickly. And after the election it happened so quickly that even the Danish People's Party had to join the field. It's quite interesting that some things like this can happen through outside initiatives, so that it could knock a hole through these thick walls. And that is not just my point of view. The climate is today a joint initiative that everyone supports, perhaps with one party as an exception.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115649	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl i. It happened because there was a popular movement out there. After all, there were some organizations pushing through the usual channels. This is true in relation to both the media and our ordinary parliamentary channels up to here. I mean, it got through. I can only be concerned that we are in fact doing a bit of a disservice in doing this by doing something like that conformed, institutionalized, state-based something that we are building up and saying that hello, how we want to do something for democracy and for the popularisation of the political debate. I fully agree with the intentions, but I am just afraid that we are doing the matter a disservice here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115731	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116115738	Thank you for that, President. Are we going to have a citizen's thing in Denmark? I would like to thank the alternative for making this proposal. When I read it, I sat down and thought about what it really is that we can do today with our democracy and what we do as politicians. After all, we have an incredible number of opportunities to be in dialogue with the citizens. After all, consultations on legislative proposals have already been mentioned, where relevant parties are consulted. I personally feel that one of the best things I know is actually reading a hearing answer. Because there will be a great many grains of gold, and there will be a great many things where you think that hoof, we have not been aware of that, but now there is a hearing answer in which there may be some concerns that give us the opportunity to ask follow-up questions. It has also been mentioned that citizens themselves can collect signatures and make proposals. But in addition, I assume that everyone in here has a lot of meetings with all sorts of organizations, individuals, groups. There is also the possibility of having a mail correspondence and telephone contact. And we can set up some things here at Christiansborg, in other words do some hearings where citizens can also be involved. And not only that, because in our municipal councils we have the same principle, but also local politics. I think we all know very well the feeling that if you are closing a school, we will hear from the citizens. And the citizens themselves will also have to ensure that they are involved in the matters which they find interesting. So I actually think that the proposal may be a little superfluous, not negative, but I think that the alternative must confirm or deny that the intentions of the Alternative are, in fact, already options that we have today. They are then just scattered out where the alternative then probably more wants to put it together in some box. There I can share the concern of the rapporteur of the Left as to whether it will be such an over-authority that will push out some of the other good democratic processes. Then there is one thing I would like to mention, and that is something that is not being used so much today, but that we could make better use of: local referenda, which are indicative. When you have to decide something that means a great deal to the local community, you could send it out to a local referendum, just as you could find out where the citizens are on this issue. That's where we know from, among other things. Switzerland, that when you have the process of local referendums they have of course a different system than we have then the citizens of themselves are really very involved and care very much about it and also get professionally dressed, so it is not just about attitudes, but they actually get into the material and dress themselves up to make a good decision. We thank you for giving us the opportunity to reflect on this. It is very important for us as politicians to constantly reflect on how democratic we are and whether we can improve. However, as we see it, the opportunities are already there today, so we thank you nicely no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120054	There are a few questions. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120104	Thank you for the comments from the Danish People's Party. Again, I have said it many times now: we have some tools in here that we use in the way that we now think works best. So this is not a criticism of what already exists in here. We want to do even better. And if what we have in here worked so amazingly well, then it's amazing that confidence in us politicians is as low as it actually does. So there is something wrong when, on the one hand, we see that confidence in us politicians has never been lower and, on the other hand, there are so few who want to become members of political parties. I do not think that in any way reflects the political arrangement that is out there in the public. They want to participate politically, get involved if the forms and opportunities are right. That is why we are saying that this is not an attack on representative democracy, it is not an attack on the tools we have, but this is an attempt to create new tools because the problem is still there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120212	I didn't hear a question, but I'd like to replicate it, sir. Uffe Elbæk says. This confidence in politicians is absolutely right. I am thinking that we ourselves are partly to blame for this, but that our press and the media are very much involved in making cases where people sit out there and rip themselves in their hair and think what it is for some people who walk around Christiansborg. I think that's part of it, unfortunately. I myself experience very positive cooperation with the citizens I meet. They are happy to be heard, and they are grateful that you will spend your time on them. I think those were the words in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120250	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120251	We have seen that there are good experiences with citizens' proposals. This means that if you can get 50,000 others to back you up, you can bring some thematics, some questions into this room that we in here might want to avoid, or these may be issues that we find difficult to deal with. Then we are challenged by the citizens to say that this agenda is really, really important. That is, of course, the idea of a citizen's thing, namely that the citizens who make up the citizen's thing are not bound by party political interests or other special interests. They come as citizens and together they find consensus and raise a debate with us. That is the dynamic we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120340-2	That is precisely what we can do with citizens' proposals. 'Cause it's not something we decide from in here. And there can be, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk says it's good to be cases where we don't really think it's very cool to have to decide on them. There can be all kinds of reasons for this. And then the citizens raise a case and get it into the Chamber, and then they force us to take a position on that particular matter. So that possibility already exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120402	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120404	I am now a little surprised that the Danish People's Party cannot see the advantage of this. Could it not have been nice to have been able to predict that the whole climate debate exploded, so that one must rethink one's policy and not lose incredibly many voices by shaking the head of the climate movement and calling them climate freaks? I believe that then there is a certain need for all of us to get better input into the daily debate. I also attend many meetings, but here there is an opportunity to put it in a little system and give us some extra impetus. After all, we put the citizens' proposals into a little system, and I very much disagreed with the rapporteur of the Left that it should be a problem for us to put it in a little system. It has released so many ideas. Try to go to the website and count how many people are involved in trying to make suggestions and collect 50,000 about a proposal. It's a fantastic positive energy being released in these processes. Why shouldn't we work on it a little more? It could be that it could save the Danish People's Party from several electoral disasters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120514	But the very thing about the citizens being able to collect signatures and bring them to the Folketing was, of course, a wish of the people to whom we listened and which we took note of and which we then put into a system. It now works well. In relation to the issue of having a citizen's thing, it is, as has been mentioned earlier, the case that we have just set up a climate thing. Can't we wait and see what comes out of it? Because it is also a systematic system in which we choose to put something into the system from here. Afterwards, we evaluate it and see what was good, what was bad, and whether it is something we should continue with, and whether it is something we should spread out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120547	Sir. Christian Juhl? No. There are no more questions. We thank Mrs Pernille Bendixen and move on to Mr Bendix. Jens Rohde as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120559	Thank you, Mr President, for taking office as President so that I could stand down as President and act as rapporteur. President We are always helpful). It's nice to have flexibility and willingness to service. When I left the radical group meeting after our discussion on Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the alternative's suggestions here, I actually thought of Halfdan Rasmussen and his rhyme: "My night hat doesn't cheer me up./Calotteen ka Lotte get./Cassen ka the shooter/use at night/if not cadetten/with the cube will have it,/and I'm gonna hit the hat/and the hood in the cabin/can him the hot tub/and the bulkhead from Vrå/get the hitch hat/and the cottage cap on! I apologize to the rapporteur, but this list can be looked up. I'm quoting it because it's an amazing rhyme. I have always loved the rhyme of Halfdan Rasmussen, but it is difficult to extract the conclusion, and it is difficult to extract the substance. I actually feel the same way about the proposal here, and frankly I felt the same way about the discussion in the radical group, because it went in all directions. The thing is, I feel the same way personally. I would be able to make a flaming speech in favour of the proposal that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and others I have made, and I can make a speech that pours it down the board. It depends a little on whether it is the reactionary myself that takes over or whether it is the voice that says: Try now to open your mind. This is the case, to quote another of a completely different caliber, namely the former Emperor Marcus Aurelius, who was apparently Emperor of the year 161-180 after Christ, that people, through a life cycle, build up a series of resistances to action, although these actions could potentially provide a better quality of life. It is, of course, a human condition that we live with, and that is also what the alternative lives on, because it is the mirror that the alternative is constantly trying to stop for us and good for it. Therefore, the conclusion to this and from the discussion we had in the radical group room is that now you get the really radical answer: pudding, you can't nail up the wall • that we don't actually know exactly what to think about it. So we have not taken a position on what we are going to vote in the end, but we would very much like to be involved in a report that takes this in a positive way, and we stand by the excellent idea of a climate-citizenship. It is the alternative that has fought to include it in the climate agreement, and we stand by that agreement. In fact, we think it is a very good idea, because the climate problem is so omkafattning and has meaning in so many areas that it is very good to try it out there. So now the question is a little whether we do not at first and it is so little the reactionary voice that speaks just to try it out before we plunge into unfolding it on the big palette, or whether we should once and for all say and acknowledge that it is an addon. But there are also reservations, as Mr. Martin Geertsen and Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen also says, because it has to be an addon, and it is important that it is organised and institutionalised, so it is an addon and not a desavoration of representative democracy, as we know it. This is of course absolutely crucial, and that is why we probably tend most to take the experiment first and then qualify it afterwards. I think, as I said, with Marcus Aurelius in mind, that when this proposal has been dealt with a few times in this Chamber, there will be a majority in favour of it. But for the time being, we are cautiously hesitant. That is a conditional yes and a conditional no, and more radically it can hardly be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116120959	That was an exciting speech. It may be that Radicals can find an answer in one of Halfdan Rasmussen's poems and rhymes, you never know. But now it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, who may follow up on Halfdan Rasmussen's poem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121010	No, I will not start quoting, but thank you for your speech. Moreover, I can understand the dilemma described by the rapporteur. Because if I were to look back to 5-10 years ago, I would have been very ready to almost revolutionize our democratic system, and I no longer feel that way anymore. I think we are in a very vulnerable democratic situation where, on the one hand, we must stand up for our democratic institutions because they are under pressure and, on the other hand, we must develop it. I would just like to stress the difference between the climate-citizen thing that is included in the Climate Act and it is quite true that it was something that was very important for us to strike at saying that what we are then proposing here is that the citizens themselves take up thematics and that there is also an educational course in it. They get smarter, they get involved in actually dealing with complex political issues. But I hear the rapporteur say that one is willing to take the discussion into the UFO and find out whether to make a report and then find out what is a viable way for this idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121120	That's right. One of the concerns I have, for example. I think, and perhaps I also think, that the only weakness of the citizens' proposal is that of the discussion. In other words, we must also have a discussion about whether what we are doing is too much promoting individual democracy at the expense of the whole or not. I think that is actually a very important discussion. By the way, I share the analysis that our democracy is very vulnerable, and we see that particularly in these years. That is why I think this discussion deserves to be extended. When I said yes to the question from Mr. Morten Østergaard on whether or not I would join the Bureau, it was not with a desire to sit in the chair there, but with a desire to address the whole constitutional issue and our democracy: the two-chamber system, the non-two-chamber system, how do we strengthen local democracy? After all, municipal autonomy has also become vulnerable to our decisions in this Parliament. I think there are so many things to discuss, including the in principle excellent idea that comes from Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk, and as I have also noted, actually works quite well abroad, and we would like to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121238	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121239	It was just in relation to the last one, where I also want to emphasise one thing. And that is, of course, that we have looked at how it has worked in Ireland, how it has worked in France and how it has worked in Belgium at national level. But also looked at how it works at local level, city level, whether it is Madrid or Gdansk, or most recently here at home in Copenhagen, where this method of work has been used. And everywhere it turns out that it has helped to qualify the political debate both among the citizens and also in the representative chambers in which the discussions are taking place. In any case, I think that is important when we have to take it over the UFO, among other things. to make it clear too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121322	But Mr. Uffe Elbæk knows that I love when you are inspired by abroad, and we have a tendency to think that we are always doing the right thing and the perfect thing here in Denmark. It's not necessarily like that. But the fact is that there are different ways of doing it abroad just in relation to the representation. And we can gather a little more concrete information about that, and otherwise Mr. Uffe Elbæk could also inform the committee on a regular basis, including me, about this and what is the experience of the different selection methods. So we want to help qualify and are completely open and positive about the discussion. But I cannot quite say what we will end up voting if it comes down to the vote, what I must expect it to do, i.e. the discussion and the mental image that I gave with the rhyme of Halfdan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121421	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121430	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for putting forward the proposal for a citizen's thing. The proposal runs very well with a SF initiative, which we launched exactly 1 year ago. We must safeguard democracy, where as many people as possible have the right to interfere in the debates on the development of our society and where as many people as possible feel included in the decisions we have to take, but in this context I really want to emphasise that democracy is much better than its reputation. When I was young, you had to go to the library to find a yearbook if you had to contact the Danish Parliament. You had to send a letter or contact a landline phone. Today, with a few clicks on a computer, you can find precisely those members of parliament who are dealing with exactly the subject that the individual citizen may be concerned with. Here in the Folketing we have felt it, by the fact that more and more citizens are directing themselves, either to us all or to selected members or to individuals. When we deal with legislative proposals, they have been in consultation with a number of stakeholders before the Danish Parliament makes any decision at all. You can also look for committees, take part in hearings and often follow the debates on the television screens at home. Social media have been widely used in debates, and it has also often succeeded in mobilising groups of citizens on specific actions. Just see how the young people mobilized a climate debate, which became both a very hot theme in the election campaign, but also practically one of the most important themes in the Danish Parliament's work. Or it may be when citizens with disabilities and their relatives mobilise one million votes in a larger and larger network in order to be heard, also by elected representatives, or when the Victims of the Job Centre become a grassroots movement that wins ear in the media and also here in the Folketing. And when parents gathered in large demonstrations to ask for an adult for children in the day institutions, it was an effort which can also be read directly in the agreements concluded with the most recent Finance Act. Municipalities and regions are constantly working on actions that can give local citizens a more direct opportunity to participate in the debates with hearings and committees and where citizens are invited to participate in the development of local initiatives. I think that democracy is much better than its reputation, and we need more of it. It doesn't mean that we stop, but it just means that we need more of it, but I actually think it's really important that we remember that we're already doing this development, and it's going really, really fast, but it's actually doing better than we sometimes listen to. In the SF we also think it makes sense to discuss a citizen's thing. In SF we would like to put the model to debate, after all. It is important for citizens who participate to participate in a given subject and not through coercion. It may also be important that some will have an interest in certain issues and others will have an interest in some other issues, but we would like to continue the development of democracy so that as many people as possible can easily participate in the social debate. The alternative proposal does not seem to us to be entirely ready, but we think it deserves debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121802	There is a question from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121804	Thank you for a positive statement from the SF that we can work on the idea. I just have a question. The rapporteur says that democracy is much better than it sometimes sounds when we talk about it. I believe that democracy in some areas is much better, because there is a much more direct way of communicating, easier access to information, and it is possible to reach its MFs more directly than just 10 to 20 years ago. On the other hand, we still see that the relationship of trust between us and the citizens has never been lower and that interest in joining a political party is also far too low; it is less than 4%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In other words, if we are going to put it a little at the forefront, we have such a 4-percent democracy. How about a 96-percent democracy? In other words, do we not have to constantly find out how to strengthen democracy, democratic processes and democratic institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116121910	But I think we should also talk about the fact that it is actually okay that we sometimes decide to say: I do not need to mean anything about this, I would like to let representative democracy deal with that. So it is also a weighting of whether we have to be forced to always take a position on everything or whether we can take part in some selected debates. I am just as concerned as the author of the motion for a resolution about the distrust which also surrounds us. So perhaps I also think that we ourselves have a little obligation sometimes to remind ourselves that sometimes things are different than we imagine. I myself was immensely surprised when I came to Parliament about how easy one actually has access to members of parliament. I am actually doing a lot of trying when I have a lot of debates in the country, just to remind you that you can make an application, that you can answer the phone, that you can send an e-mail, that you can get in touch with us, that you can take part in hearings, and that you can even propose hearings that you think it makes sense to have in here. This does not mean that I think we are finished; it just means that I think we have many options, which we should also remember to use actively.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122016	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122017	I fully agree with that. What is just important for me to emphasise is that these are two different ways of working: whether we work here in the Assembly, where we are organised after parties, that is, after a special social view, depending on which party we represent, or whether it is in a citizen's thing, where it is citizens who only represent themselves and who have a task of finding consensus. In here, it is a lot about the conflict. It is our proposal that we should seek consensus on sometimes complex thematics. That is to say, you get some other solutions, you get some other ways of discussing, and that is, of course, why we propose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122103	That is also where I say that the proposal is good, but it is not ready. Because, in other words, if you sign up as a judge, you will be elected on the basis that you have some interest in it. That is something that the rapporteur himself compares with • and the 100 citizens are not representative per person. definition. I mean, we just had a parliamentary election, where 900 faces have been hanged on the lampposts, hoping candidates who would really like to put up a meeting, and before that there have been some good debates in the party associations. And I agree that we must avoid restricting the democratic debate to the party associations, but try to spread it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122139	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122140	The SF rapporteur said that one should also have the right to withdraw and say: I will not take part in that debate. But isn't that exactly what is at the heart of this proposal from the Alternative: that there are 100 people who can take such debates in some forms that we support, and they, in fact, choose even three or four debates a year, in which they want to participate, and then there are some who try to take stock of it after a three-year period? That is exactly what is going to happen, and it is not that we are instructing them to take a position on everything we come up with in here, but that they choose it for themselves. I think this is the wise thing to do, and it can be policy-making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122223	The rapporteur almost makes it sound as if the SF does not support the intentions of the proposal. We do, but I think the model can stand to be looked at again in order to find suitable methods. We have seen lots of good methods in the municipalities, where, for example, people in Aarhus have worked with citizens' budgets. Municipalities and regions are experimenting enormously to create those spaces where you can choose and say: I want to talk about the economy. I would like to help talk about the green development in my municipality. I'd like to help talk about welfare or whatever it may be. It makes good sense to create those spaces where citizens can speak out and also help to develop policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122313	Then we thank the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122329	Deliberative democracy refers to a system of political decisions based on an exchange between consensus decision-making and representative democracy. The concept was originally developed by Joseph M. Bessette. Deliberation means consultation, or thorough consideration. I would like to say to the Alternative that I had to go to the bookcase, because I haven't read so many years at university that I knew what that term meant, and you use it several times, so it must have a certain meaning for you that you use that word. I'll learn, and when I dug into your very explanation of what you wanted, I think you've come a long way with some good thoughts. But the reason why I am reading this is that I want to say whether we, as politicians, should not also try to see if we cannot break the wall between the implied language that we sometimes use here and at university and elsewhere, and then the language that ordinary people speak. At least I think that's a good thing. Otherwise, it is an attempt that you will have started, with 100 people randomly selected, or it is not entirely by chance, because a diversity must be ensured within gender, age and geographical location and income, and that is really, very good and they must contribute to information, public debate and development, and they must work as a collective, trying to promote consensus on new policy areas. Information also set itself as a target a few years ago that they would try to promote this idea, and fortunately you have also helped them promote it. I feel that representative democracy is often chosen for reasons of efficiency, because, as we heard before about the Romans, it is rarely possible to bring together all those involved on a matter. I think they didn't gather everyone down by the Romans, it was probably the better-off elite, those who had the power, who then gathered a larger group than we would gather. I agree that this could be a good addition to the citizens' proposal page, which has, of course, developed and which people have taken on board. I remember those parties who warned against it and who for a long time dragged the debate out in the Bureau and in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but who seem to have surrendered and said that it is a good idea for us to have many inspirations there. So we're very positive about this idea. I also think that the comments you have made on the experience of other countries have been very exciting to read; I did not know about them. Especially in a country such as Ireland, where we have just had a number of conflicting years when we could hardly talk, at least for some groups, we have managed to create such debates in certain parts of society. I am really happy that you point out that it would be a good idea for 16- and 17-year-olds to be able to participate in it; I think that the past two years' experience with the climate debate might emphasise may be a really, really good idea; we are a few in the Folketing who are over 25 years old. And then I would say that when it is an attempt, it is also good to gather those experiences. I can't really find anything worrying about this. Well, we have planted a garden with countless democratic flowers in our society for centuries, to put it bluntly. Of course, in 1849 in the formal form, it took off from absolute monarchy to a form of parliamentary democracy. And I often think of the picture that you all know from inside the Conversation Room. It is a very big picture of a group of elderly men of concern. Some came here from the Folketing and others came from the Landsting, and they were to make the Constitution 1915, and the big question was: Did they dare give women the right to interfere in politics? Only when their wives began to stand outside and demonstrate did it begin to move something quite serious, because it was a violent threat in everyday life. So I think it's a good idea for us to plant another democratic flower in our garden, I think it's really good to do it this way, that is to say as an attempt, and I think it can help to combat the opposition to politics that some people have, because I agree with that. At a time when a lot of people feel alienated from democracy, it is perhaps important that we try to look at all the possibilities that are available and then we should remember, when we wander around this garden with democratic flowers, that we are not going to step on any of those we have built up, of course, and then see how they can play together and benefit each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122834	There are questions from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122836	This is not really a question, I just want to say that I am really, really happy to hear the positive response that comes from the Enhedslisten. And, by the way, I fully agree with the use of words and concepts that are immediately understandable. I have constantly avoided using this very professional concept, because what it is all about is consensus and the dialogue democracy. So that is the ambition rather than the conflict that governs it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116122907	Thank you. It gave me an opportunity to say something I did not just mention. I have lived a long life in the trade union movement, which I see as one of the most important democratic organisations we have in this country. But when I got new trust people in and had to say hello to them when they were elected, I always tried to show them something. Well, I got up and went for a walk back and forth in the office and asked them: Do you see how many legs I have? Then they said, yes, you have two. Then I said, remember, you're at least as important as the politicians. If democracy is to function, both democratic and parliamentary must function, but also extra-parliamentary. And there is an enormously important unity in the extra-parliamentary work, because politicians do not come up with anything of their own. They'll think of something if you and we, who have an idea, try to help them find a way to solve the problems. Most people understood this when we talked about it in this way, because they could then see that one cannot lag away in a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123008	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123009	In fact, I very much agree with Mr. Christian Juhl said that we should be particularly careful to step on the democratic flowers that we already have. But could we not turn it around and say: How can we strengthen them? And I am in fact also on the team that thinks the trade union movement is one of the most important democratic institutions we have. They are the ones who, together with employers, create the balance, that is, the fact that we have it, create the stability of the labour market, which is good for everyone. So now that we are having such a discussion about our democracy, it would not be better if we spread it out and not just looked at one flower, but perhaps at the same time looked at: how can we strengthen our trade union movement so that we do not lose organizational percentage? We can see abroad what the results are of it. France is a good example where you have a degree of organisation of 7%. That is what makes things not working and that strikes are always very violent even. Then Enhedslisten cannot see the idea that you might think about a citizen thing with other measures we can do to strengthen some of the flowers that Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned in his rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123130	Yes, and there is an important answer. And that is that if an organization wants to be alive, it has to live in a field of tension between the stability and the strength that they have built up over the years, and then the ability to rethink, see the signals and try out new things. That is why I like this proposal, because it is as if it goes in the middle of it all, and it is also described here that it is precisely an attempt to say: how can we try to help democracy along the way? After all, there are no feet in this which are stepping on some other democratic working methods that we have in society. And that's why I see it as an attempt to plant a single beautiful flower in a place where there may be some space, without it bothering the other beautiful flowers we have planted and which our ancestors especially have planted over the years. So we must always work in a field of tension between stability, the well-known, what we are used to, and the new unknown. And sometimes something grows up. Maybe this is gonna be a bluff. We don't know anything about that until we've tried it. And it can easily play along with the citizens' thing in climate legislation, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123243	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123244	Yes, but we are human beings too, and it can be said that our ability to focus on various things is, after all, limited. Will a citizen's thing, for example? strengthen local democracy? Will it? How do we get this into a discussion? Mrs Jette Gottlieb was just in time to deliver such an excellent brochure on how to scrap the budget law. It is not just about figures, it is about local democracy and how we strengthen local democracy in Denmark. That is why I am a little bit asking for a discussion to be held, which is the way to think about these elements of democracy, and not just to do such a biopsy test, in which one thing is then taken out. Can the rapporteur follow this line of thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123334	I can do that, but there is something that suggests that there can be a secondary effect of such things. Try to think back to when Bertel Haarder, our colleague, suggested a few years ago that we should have public meetings. It wasn't something he was doing in a study office. It was because he had been in Sweden and Norway and seen how they had folk meetings there, and then it grew because there were some local forces on Bornholm who wanted to carry out the task. People's meetings have spread. There are folk meetings in many municipalities and regions, and in different ways they have developed the form so that they are actually more dynamic than the Bornholm meeting. So it can easily develop, and so can this idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123427	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Per Larsen, Conservatives, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123440	Thank you for that, President. The alternative has tabled a motion for a resolution to set up an experimental system with a citizen's touch in Denmark, a so-called deliberative democracy. In a sense, it is not so popular to use expressions that one has to break up to understand the full meaning of. Now, in my study of the term, it came out that deliberation means consultation or thorough consideration, and thus the deliberative democracy is based on qualified debates on a well-informed and nuanced basis between citizens and experts in this case, it is well politicians to find the best solutions. I really believe that we already have this in Denmark, when we think of all the consultations that politicians are conducting with the aim of clarifying a problem thoroughly and nuanced; or all the consultation answers that are being given and that lead to changes in the legislative proposals between the legislative processes, because the legislative proposals have been qualified in their content along the way; or all the times when there is a presence in the committees where the citizens come in and present their problems and solutions. Twice a year, the proposers want the citizens' thing to take up a topic for debate, which will then have to be unveiled and discussed through a series of hearings. After all, politicians are already doing this today, and with both hearings, appearances and consultation responses there are good channels for involving citizens, so that they also gain ownership of the decisions taken by politicians. Finally, we Conservatives also have concerns about whether the processes of such a proposal will become very cumbersome and bureaucratic. In view of all the above, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123647	There is a question from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123652	I was just about to say thank you for that remark. I do not, but I respect it because, as the rapporteur says, we are already doing so, under the understanding that we politicians are already conducting hearings. But the whole point is that it is not us politicians who have to conduct these hearings, but that it is the citizens who have to conduct these hearings. And I have stressed on several occasions in the debate that this is not a criticism of the tools we already have, but a desire to have a new democratic tool and, according to the experience we can see from abroad, it has been used with great success. This has helped to upgrade the debate, including in the established political space, because the citizens have come in with their ideas, and they are making consensus decisions. That is what we have agreed on is the best recommendation. So if a question can now be put to the rapporteur, I would like to ask: what quality does the rapporteur see in the proposal? Are there any qualities at all? Or are you just vertically opposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123756	There is always quality when opinions are broken and things are discussed and views are promoted. So that's all you can say here. There is, then, a certain amount of quality in discussing things, as it will be. But we just think from the Conservative People's Party that we have so many democratic approaches. As the rapporteur knows, I am newly elected to the Danish Parliament, and I am impressed by the openness and ease of approach to the Danish Parliament and the fact that it is possible to have an unsolicited appearance before the parliamentary committees. I think it is impressive and wonderful and wonderful that there is openness and the opportunity for citizens to speak out and to influence us politicians directly up front. I think that is quite excellent, and that is why I think it actually covers very well with regard to the ability of citizens to influence politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123855	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123857	Now I have to be careful that I remember correctly, but I believe that the Conservative Mayor of Gentofte has made a big deal of developing some new ways of involving citizens in the decisions that are at local level. And if I do not remember quite wrong, there is a great similarity between what is being done in Gentofte at local level and what we are actually proposing here. What do Conservatives think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116123933	I always think it is excellent to involve citizens in the decision-making process, whether it is in the municipalities, in the region or it is here in the Folketing, and we already do so. After all, we are sending the proposals into consultation with organisations and citizens, and everyone has the opportunity to include their views in the debates, and I must promise that citizens will do so. I had never dreamed of getting as many e-mails as I do as a parliamentarian. After all, we are constantly being influenced by citizens who have something in their hearts and good for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124008	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124011	My dictionary says that "conservative" also means something about preserving, and that is honorable. However, it is also important to rethink, and I do not think that the Conservatives would have been there in electoral terms if they had not found their own way out of the crisis they were in a few years ago, precisely by rethinking. So it doesn't matter that, even if you're called the Conservative People's Party, you can try new things off, and maybe it could be a really good idea to jump into sharing in trying this thing off. The rapporteur said that there was a great deal of openness. I just want to remind you that on several occasions, and several times in the relatively short time I have been in here, this thing has, in fact, limited the openness of public administration and political life. Wouldn't it be a good idea just to try experimenting a little bit? I know that in this matter of public administration, which we voted on in the previous paragraph, it seemed that Conservatives had changed their position in the wrong direction, and I was a little sorry about that. Because you guys used to defend sometimes that there's got to be insight into things, but shouldn't we try to experiment a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124122	As I also explained in my first speech, I think we are covered very well, and this is not about more openness in the administration, as I read it. It is, of course, about trying to spread some debate into some fixed forums with some people who are then appointed to it. In relation to the debate that is otherwise taking place in the media, where people have the opportunity to influence both municipal politicians, regional politicians and parliamentary politicians, I think we are actually well covered. And that is why we do not believe that there is any reason to promote the proposal put forward by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124209	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124211	Yes, but now it was the rapporteur himself who was talking about openness. That is why I took it up now when there is a Conservative Member who is on the platform. I think that, in this situation, we could work in such a way that it is not us who are sending out calls for comments on something we have made as a legislative proposal, but that there are some of the citizens of our country who sit down and discuss some issues they have chosen for themselves, and who are taking some reflections and trying to see if they can find some new and better proposals that we have not made but which they have made. It is, of course, a crucial difference between the process that the rapporteur is talking about and what is in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124253	I think that democracy is very alive. There's a great debate going on, and it's coming from downstairs. Here, we have, of course, set out to create a permanent forum of some kind where some people are appointed who may not even have anything on their mind. In other words, I think that the way democracy works today, when people get involved in debates and influence politicians, works very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124324	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124327	If you go back in history to the 1920s and 1930s, you will be able to make sure that Conservatives thought that with parliamentarianism it was a dangerous galley that you were on the way to moving out on. So in this way, the rejection is, in fact, a very fine extension of that tradition, although I know that it is not the one that Conservatives today stand for. After all, as always, there is also a particular bright spot in history, and it is indeed only yesterday that Mrs Mette Abildgaard was enthusiastic about the Parliament's platform and proudly said that the Conservative People's Party had agreed to the citizens' proposal, whereas other parties, who were kissed for having been more reactionary in that context, are not Mr. Per Larsen in this context did not so afraid to sit on the wrong side of the story with such a blank rejection, since now Conservatives are so happy that they were on the right side of the story in relation to the citizen's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124443	But again, there is the difference that the citizens' proposals are something that comes from below. That is something that the citizens are taking the initiative and putting forward, and then we have given them the possibility that they can be dealt with here in the Things if they gain sufficient support. I think that's excellent. This initiative, which the Alternative brings, is something that comes from above, where they say: now we must have appointed some to discuss some specific issues. Somewhere I think it's turning wrong. Democracy must grow from below.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124522	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124523	Well, maybe this proposal, if it is properly designed, could help to create something more dynamic from the bottom up and again if it is properly carried out in the way it is institutionalised, helping not only to promote individual democracy. Will Mr. Per Larsen does not admit that the citizens' proposal has in it the weakness or risk that it promotes individual democracy at the expense of the whole, where a citizen's thing, for example. a climate bourgeoisie, actually have the opportunity to spread the palette out?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124608	Perhaps I can be in doubt about that. In fact, I sense that in the course of the debate here, the radical rapporteur is becoming increasingly fond of the proposal. I heard it as if there were really doubts as to whether this was appropriate. However, as I said, I think that the citizens' proposals are a good opportunity for the citizens to get us to talk, and we have promised them that if there is sufficient support for a citizens' proposal, we will also be dealing with it here in the Things. I think that is an excellent arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124646	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and then we move on, and that's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens' Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116124655	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund couldn't be here, and then I'm a substitute. That is why I have also listened to the speeches that have been made in the debate. In fact, I think it has been a good speech with various things. It made me reflect on why the need is there. If you accept the alternative's premise that you want to create them here, why is the need created? This makes me think that, as politicians decide more about the citizens, interfere more with the lives of citizens and deprive them of the freedom to decide their economy, but also in a larger way over their families and how to adapt themselves, so that they too, in a way, are deprived of the opportunity to take initiatives. I believe that the society that has been created over the past 20 to 30 years has taken the drive and spark of the people out there in a bad way, and I think that is what we can see by people not getting so much involved in politics and party politics anymore. Because there is a heavy duvet on society when the state takes away responsibility and takes away power over our own lives. So I think that if you took the initiative in this House to move the other way, and it will be like a chicken and an egg debate, I recognise that, and it would be innovative thinking, it would be something that would not have been seen since the 1960s, since the 1970s, that you gave more freedom back to citizens economically and mentally, you would also see a blossoming of people who would come to democracy and people who would participate in debates. I believe that, unfortunately, we have decommissioned people by taking too much power and responsibility from the people out there. Then there is also a little funny detail, because in history we have hardly had easier access to politicians and, as we gain easier access to politicians, confidence in politicians decreases and perhaps we need to think about how it can be. I think that the right medicine on the problem and the right way to go and I would like to accommodate and acknowledge the premise that the Alternative sets out for this here, and take the proposal seriously and seriously, is to give more freedom back to citizens. Because then they have space and space and opportunity to sit down and do a citizen's thing if they think it gives value. I believe very much in civil society, and if they in civil society think it is worth doing a citizen thing, then they have room, advice and profits for it today. And that is related to the social structure we have, where it is virtually impossible today to have a family where not both go to work, spend 37-40 hours each, hurry home, pick up the children and return home. Where's the surplus to get involved in these things? And that's because of the social design we have? If we restricted ourselves from in here, even in our eagerness to take people's money, the families might have had a surplus for one of the parties to work part-time and one who might have been at home and who might have had a surplus to get involved in local democracy or in a citizen's thing that could come. So I have no objection to the idea of a citizen's thing, but it has to be done on a voluntary basis, and people should want to gather, and it should not be something that comes from in here, which is just another point where we take some of the people's money and say that this is what they are going to be used for. Because that is exactly what has gone wrong in my optics, and that is why I cannot support what it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125113	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125115	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for sharing his reflections and thoughts on the basis that we have this discussion. And a long way along the way I can actually follow the rapporteur, in terms of how we can free our municipalities more, how we can free our institutions more, and how we can get a working life that allows people to get involved in civil society. I can actually nod to all these things. And I also hear that the rapporteur must correct me if I have heard the wrong thing about saying that what is here is not a bad idea, but that you want to discuss it. So it's actually to see if I've heard right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125203-2	You heard right, compared to the fact that I believe that rulers and the system should resign and allow people to have their place completely correct. But I don't think this does, and because it comes from in here, it's just gonna be another extended arm. It will just be another form of state control that we can then refer to. And then the politicians sit in here and refer to what this council has said to confirm themselves in choosing an attitude on and off. And I don't think that gives any value. So no, you didn't quite hear me say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125244	I would just like to point out that the form of charge is not you, but Mr. President. Uffe Elbæk or the questioner or the rapporteur or what you use in this connection. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125256	I'll live. What is interesting here or what I hope is interesting is that it isn't thought of as being that from here we should dress up with borrowed feathers from what the bourgeoisie has recommended. So, the citizen thing must make recommendations to us, based on what they have found together is the best solution to a given problem. And it's on top of the shoulders of citizens' suggestions that an individual can make. And the rapporteur certainly knows very well how much citizens' proposals have contributed to the debate in here and has also brought some questions into the Chamber which would not necessarily have been touched on by anything, that is to say, a discussion that one does not want to enter into.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125351	Well, there's gonna be this climate bourgeois thing, so maybe a litmus test on it. Because can we leave it alone, or will the parties start using it as an argument for something in the debate here? Well, we'll see about that. I don't believe they can help it. And then I'm gonna ask you another question. Now they mentioned this with these citizens' budgets, which are also new thinking about this. For me, this is a huge lack of authority on the part of the citizens. In other words, you allow yourself to take the citizens' money through taxes, and then you return some of them as some kind of pocket money and say: 'You can have them to spend'. Then you have to stop taking them in the first place. And these are the same terms that I think there's for this. Why is it not just that the citizens sit down and do this if they think it is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125434	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125435	This is a very stimulating debate, which is why it is fantastic that we have such a proposal, because we have many aspects of the whole of democracy. And I can say to Mr. Knox. Per Larsen, that the good thing about being in doubt is that you are then not argument-resistant, but that you are actually listening. And when someone stands on the platform and speaks against it, I speak in favour or ask on the other side. And when someone speaks for it, I ask critical questions about it. Well, I share a lot, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's analysis that we are stretching our networks beyond the population and have far too little confidence that they can make their own decisions and that the municipalities themselves can make decisions in local democracy. I fully agree with that. But perhaps some new flowers in the garden, as Mr. Christian Juhl formulated it, could help to promote the discussion that makes the democratic function spread out, away from here and there. In fact, one might wonder why Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen says no when he brings out the analysis he does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125552	Yes, immediately, if you have the premise that I consider this to be a new flower. But I don't. I see it as something existing, i.e. as another council, another new board, which we set up really, very many of. If you have to look at what I think there are new flowers in democracy, then we can look at the digital social media: look at me in the eye movement, which has suddenly flourished, the matter of minimum standards that have flourished. The things that are going on there and that emanate from the citizens, where they gather around a cause that they are passionate about, I think is a new thing and something that I think we are going to see. Then you can take the climate where it might also be one of the same. I think that is the way we are going to see our democracy going, in other words, where people start to get involved in the individual cases that matter exactly to them. Then we can discuss whether it is a sign of health or whether it is a sign of a democracy. But I think it's going that way. I think it's the new flower. I don't see this citizen thing as a new flower.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125654	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125655	But the weakness of that is that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen doesn't know which algorithms decide who he's going to face. Unfortunately, that is the reality we are facing, because we have delegated the democratic dialogue to the algorithms of capitalism. And it could be a little bit one-sided. Here it will be done in a different way. In fact, it could be a conversation room that could be an addon to it, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen himself stands here and speaks for it. Doesn't he see the perspective at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125733	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125735	I am very pleased that the rapporteur mentions this with Facebook algorithms. I have had the Minister in consultation exactly on this, because I think it is a huge problem we have. I think that the basic debate on society has moved much into the digital media, and that is why we need to secure a space where it is going. Facebook is for me the new Assembly House, which is why we need to make sure that we also have free and equal access to the social debate that is in there. So I absolutely share the concern about those things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125809	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116125819	Thank you. The motion for a resolution from the Alternative is about us having a citizen's thing in Denmark, and it is now being debated here in Parliament is a citizen's thing. It is not the case that we are appointed because we are good friends with the Queen, or because we come out of a noble family, or because we are otherwise part of a privileged state in Denmark. After all, we are the citizens and we have been appointed by the citizens to sit here in this Things and make decisions as the citizens we are, and also on behalf of the whole society and the citizens who elected us. So in this way it is a very strange proposal, which really puffs up the politician who sometimes says that they want to do away with, because this resolution claims that there is a contradiction between being a member of the Folketing and then being a citizen: that is, members of the Folketing are not real citizens, and that is why the alternative does not recognise that we are standing here and discussing this idea in the bourgeois thing. I do not think Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative must be set up. There's no need for that. Where I think there is a very big difference between... We in the Liberal Alliance and then the Alternative and Enhedslisten, which also speaks warmly for this idea, are in the fact that in the Liberal Alliance and in liberals in general and civil in general we even have the view that there must be large sections of society and human life that have been deprived of political power. I mean, people should be allowed to do whatever they want. That is why we are setting up such a framework where we say that in this society you should be allowed to do whatever you want as long as you do not harm others. If you can stay within that framework, there is full freedom, and then politicians have to stay out of this. But that is not enough for the alternative, and that is not enough for the Enhedslisten. We are dealing here with two parties which, in the real sense of the word, are not therefore in all kinds of other ways of understanding, which are leading up to other things. They are totalitarian parties: parties which believe that there should be no limits to the expression of power of politics, to the unfolding of power of the state. Everything in social and private life is part of the political sphere. The private sphere does not exist with parties such as the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. How to fit in the family • whether mother goes to work and father stays at home or whether it is vice versa • is a political issue for parties such as Enhedslisten and Alternativet, and because they believe that everything should be decided by the state, they need to tell the citizens that basically it is they who decide, and therefore you have to hold such séances where people have to sit and pretend they have something to say in this. It is such a spectacle of democracy in which one can be deceived that we all listen to each other, although everyone knows that one listens to each other in the alternative, but basically it is Mr. Uffe Elbæk and his leadership in charge. And the whole of society must be organized in that alternative way, that we must pretend that everything is going on in group work etc., even though the reality is that there is a leadership that controls it all. I do not want the illusion of participation in my own life and in politics to be exalted from just being an alternative model of governance to being a model of governance for the whole of society. That is why the Liberal Alliance is voting against this motion for a resolution. We want real freedom and we want real civil society, and we want real local commitment, because there are very large sections of society and privacy that do not belong to the political sphere, but belong to the private sphere, instead of everything being politics in principle, and then pretending to have participation in it by holding some meetings where you are allowed to express your opinion, after which those who really decide will take the decisions that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130315	There are three people who want to ask questions. The first is sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130319	Let's start with the conclusion. It is that LA cannot support the proposal. Before we arrived at it, the rapporteur came to terms with something about the management structure of the alternative and who decides in the alternative, and also that we will decide completely into the family's private sphere. And I do not quite know how the coupling was to the proposal we have proposed. But what we have wanted is to say: how can we qualify the debate and the decisions we have to make in this House? And there is no contradiction between the proposal for a citizen's thing and the Parliamentary Chamber, that is, what we are proposing in here. So this is a false contradiction put up by the rapporteur, I would just like to emphasise. I'm curious to know if the Liberal Alliance supports citizens' proposals. And now I'm not talking citizen stuff, I'm talking citizen stuff. Citizens' proposals were also an indication of how we could get some debates into the Parliamentary Chamber that we would not otherwise have had. So I just have to be sure: do you support LA citizens' proposals, or do you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130429	Yes, we do. We have seen a few examples where the citizens' proposals have shown their justification. I am thinking in particular of the question of whether it should be prohibited to circumcise boys who have not yet reached the age of 18. Many parties have freed their members of parliament, and freedom means that you can vote what you want when you are down in the Chamber and speak for what you want. But freedom also means that, in the practice we have established in here, none of the free-for-all members of parliament must come forward with proposals for anything in this Chamber. Because you cannot make proposals on behalf of your party; you are not allowed to make proposals to free Members. That's the practice. It's not something written down in rules, but that's the practice. That is why it has been very good that there has been a citizens' proposal which means that we have been forced to discuss this matter in this Chamber and can separate the sheep from the goats, in relation to who is in favour of a ban there and who is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130531	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130533	Just to be absolutely sure that I have understood the rapporteur: in fact, it seems that citizens' proposals are a good new democratic tool because the individual citizen with 50,000 signatures in his back can raise a debate in here. Citizenhood is about there being 100 randomly selected citizens with all the parameters that you now need to have, so that it is comparable to the population, so that it covers widely which can discuss and make their recommendation to a given issue and recommend it to us in here in the Folketing. You think that's a bad idea. So, on the one hand, you want to support citizens' proposals, but you do not want to support the citizen's thing. Is that correct and what is the argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130620	But the argument is, as I have said, that we already have a citizen's thing. The Folketing is a citizen's thing. Well, it might as well be called the bourgeois thing, now it's called the Folketing. It is about the same thing, and what is meant by a Parliament is that it is there that the citizens are represented by themselves or by some others they trust, contrary to the fact that some people sit and decide, which is appointed by some higher bodies or by something they have inherited or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130647	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130649	Thank you. I am pleased that LA's rapporteur describes himself as a bourgeois liberal. I do not subscribe to the obscene words that the rapporteur is sticking to, at least our party as a totalitarian. If there are red liberals, I'd like to join the field there. We have just a view that people must have the freedom to decide their own lives. This proposal is a good one because it gives a new corner. Democracy is not just a square box, which was once made in 1848 and adapted slightly in 1915. It is a process that we heard before that is at least my opinion and therefore we must always give opportunities for people to try to use their thoughts and to come up with ideas themselves; what should not be involved in politics, what should be involved in politics, etc. etc. This does not, of course, affect the fundamental distortion of democracy: private ownership of means of production and banks, for example. It doesn't touch that at all. This is just an opportunity to debate. So I don't understand why LA is running all the way up, because it could be good for LA to participate in such a citizen thing and listen a little sometimes maybe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130805	I don't believe that sir. Christian Juhl's intention in this Chamber is to extend people's right to decide in their own lives. Even then, before the wall fell, Christian Juhl had wholeheartedly supported the tyranny that prevailed on the other side of the Iron Curtain. Did Mr. Leaving? Christian Juhl around home playing flowerpower while supporting the worst dictatorship and the worst totalitarianism in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union? I don't believe for a moment that Mr. Christian Juhl is such a soft man as he pretends. I think sir... Christian Juhl is an iron fist in accordance with the party relationship he has and has had a party that wants to steer society hard in a direction, as Mr. Christian Juhl is in favour, no matter how much it affects people.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130858	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130859	We can have a long discussion on that one day, and I would like to call on the rapporteur to perhaps try to study a little, both in relation to what I have done and what I have said, because then there might be a little more moderation in the rapporteur's statements on it. The proposal, which is the alternative and which I think is a good proposal, is about providing more opportunities for ordinary people who feel alienated from the political process. I do not know whether the rapporteur really rejects the fact that there is a lack of confidence and support for politicians in general. We have credibility at the same level as used car dealers and journalists, and this is not a good place for what should be the highest form of democracy in our society, and we should do something about that. We can't just close our eyes and keep walking.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116130951	I agree that, unfortunately, confidence in politicians is too low in Denmark. I think Enhedslisten contributes a lot to it when we have specific cases in the Danish Parliament, where Enhedslisten shoots people motifs in the shoes, which are completely, completely wrong. When part of DONG is to be sold abroad, it is claimed that there are all kinds of interests at stake, and you come up with conspiracy theories about the current Social Democratic government about why it does this kind of thing, and it is completely out in the fence. This is a regular experience on the part of Enhedslisten, so when Mr. Christian Juhl claims to be concerned about the distrust of politics in society, nor can I take it seriously, because I think that Mr. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten contribute a lot to that mistrust.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131038	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131040	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is the shining example of ideology being something junk especially when you swing so high in relation to the liberal tabs in this discussion. For the truth is that all the liberal values melted at the heat of the ministerial cars of the Liberal Alliance when they went into government last time. That's the true story. This shows, of course, that liberalism never lasts longer than self-protection and self-promoting. And that illustrates Mr. Ole Birk Olesen quite well by saying: when it promotes the purpose that I believe in, it may be good with citizens' proposals or other things, and if not the political purpose, then it is not good. I would like to ask: in relation to what is it quite specific, Mr President? Ole Birk Olesen sees a citizen thing equal to a politicization of everything and a path towards something totalitarian?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131148	I think, sir. Jens Rohde speaks of his own experience when it comes to saying that he is a liberal and then, in fact, just trying to take care of his own career. Now, sir. Jens Rohde, however, stopped saying that he is liberal and that is a step forward. Compared to what it is, I have against the citizen thing in the way Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative have put it forward, so that it should serve as a tool to convince citizens that power is not exercised in politics and in democracy, so that it is easier in politics and in democracy to exercise power. For the alternative and in the special class Enhedslisten are some parties that want to exercise more power over the Danes. Then you try to wrap it up in sweet words about citizen involvement and so on. Instead of saying what it is, the majority of democracy decides on the minority. That is why we must be careful that democracy determines too much, because we also want individual freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131257	Now I think it might be said that I personally have paid a high price through several cases by sticking to my positions, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has never shared. And by the way, he couldn't keep his opinions to himself when he was working as a journalist, but thought he was going to be a campaigner, but peace be with it. I have always dared to invest myself in my own attitudes, and it has not always been career-promoting. I think that's obvious to everyone, so just let it go. But that does not change the fact that I am not getting an answer to the question of what it is, that is, what it is, exactly by a citizen's thing, points to something totalitarian and points to the fact that everything has to be politicised. Because I do agree that everything should not be politicised, but it is actually the citizens themselves who decide, that is, those who are not necessarily elected here. And I also agree that there is no contradiction between citizens and Parliament, but that is why there are also cooperative movements in the liberal world and other things, in other words organisations which grow up as a contribution to democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131404	I think it's crazy if mr. Jens Rohde really meant all the things he said when he was political rapporteur for the Left that he could then mean it in many areas quite exactly the opposite today, especially in foreign policy, and then claim that he has always just spoken from his own opinions. Then he is certainly a human being who is able to turn on a plate and think exactly the opposite of what he has done in the past if it was sincere what he meant. But again, what I have against the bourgeois thing is that it sprinkles a glaze that hides the real exercise of power in democracy, beyond democracy, and pretends that it is the reality that everyone is involved in making those decisions. The people who are in the minority and who are being run over by democracy, whose democracy makes too many decisions that go beyond personal freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131453	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116131500	Thank you for that and thank you for the discussion we have had here over the noon hour. You wanted to make a lot of comments on the last speech, but I will limit myself to that. It is actually just to say that I think we have had a really, really good debate. And before I make any comments on that, I would nevertheless like to stress why it is that we have proposed a citizen's thing. And this is, of course, due to the superstitious and critical situation we find ourselves in. The fact that there is almost a Grand Canyon deep abyss of lack of trust between the citizens and us politicians has now been mentioned many times in this Chamber and what the hell is the reason why we can see that we simply score so low when it comes to assessing confidence in industries where we lie and mess at the bottom of it, only surpassed by, I think, it was Christian Juhl who mentioned it, used car dealers and then journalists. So there is the one who lacks confidence, and why? On the other hand, we can see that fewer and fewer citizens want to join a political party. Well, there's less than 4%. This does not mean that they are not politically committed, but they put their commitment elsewhere and by those who then join the parties, fewer people want to stand up, thus becoming elected representatives. And as for those who are finally elected and who land in here, we are more and more alike across the political parties: we have the same educational background and we have the same references. I think it is poison to democracy that, on the one hand, there is the gap between citizens and politicians, that is, the gap in confidence, and, on the other hand, there is the potential for the formation of a real political class. So what do we do? I think that in itself is problematic. This happens at the same time as we see growing conflicts in society, in other words deep conflicts, which require very significant priorities. We'll see it in France. Here Macron wanted to introduce climate measures, and this triggered reactions in relation to the Yellow West. In other words, we see a society where the level of conflict is increasing, while the other is the case. There is a meeting down in Davos at the moment, and there they have come up with a whole new concept, namely a recess to confidence. In other words, we are at a time when there is simply less and less confidence in politicians and democratic institutions, while our democratic institutions are under pressure. All this together has meant that in the alternative we have tried to find out how to take and vitalise the democratic decision-making processes. How do we open up Christiansborg? How do we put in place new democratic bridges between us and society and the other way back again? We then formulated three or four years ago such a democratic three-step rocket, where the first proposal was a citizen's proposal, which fortunately was implemented. Then we proposed a centre for democracy development and citizen involvement, that is, such a development department in here, and now we have proposed a citizen thing. We have looked into the world and what the experience is. We have looked at Ireland, where we have seen that the citizens' thing there has helped to come up with solutions to some very difficult issues that that society has fought with, not least when it came to the issue of abortion, and because of the citizens' thing that was carried out in Ireland, the legislation was changed. We have seen it in France • I have already mentioned it • where Macron has now gone out and has conducted a large number of citizens' things in response to the social conflict that was with the Yellow West. We have seen that in Eastern Belgium real citizenship has been established as a new institutional structure, and we have also seen that it is done at urban level. There are examples in Madrid, in Gdansk and most recently at home in Copenhagen. And while I am standing here talking, some of my good political colleagues from the Alternative have put forward proposals for local citizens' things in many places around the city councils where we sit. What we want with this is to look at how the hell we take and get the right questions at work in this Chamber and whether we can qualify with some new democratic tools the solutions we need to obtain. There's the dynamics in here other than in a citizen's thing. In here we sit as representatives of attitudes and values and a certain view of society in the respective parties, whereas the members of a bourgeoisie have been elected as little as a public lottery, and there are different models that can be chosen to have the composition of a citizen's thing so that it reflects gender, geography, age and social economic background. What is the big difference in relation to the discussions we have in here now was a rapporteur up here saying that we are also a citizen's thing, and that is also true; we are a representative citizen's thing. And it has its own value that it is. But it's not in the citizen thing. It's about how in this case 100 people; that's what we've proposed together to try to find consensus through the conversation. And that's a different dynamic than the one that's going on in here. I just want to make that clear. That is also why the examples of citizens' things I mention from Ireland, from France and from Belgium have helped to bring solutions into the more established areas of power which would otherwise not have come to the table and come to a debate. So I hope, with the discussion we have had here today, that we have started a discussion on how we can use this new democratic tool. And I hear that there is openness from both the Social Democracy, the SF, the Enhedslisten and Radicals who have indicated that let us see how things are going with a climate citizen thing and others have said, and that we may have to make a report, and maybe we should do a study on it? The most important thing is that we dare take this discussion and try to see if there's anything in it, and as I have said, there's a lot that suggests there is if we look at the experience in the world. With this we have tried to say from our side that we have made a proposal on citizens' proposals. I can hear that there is now a broad recognition of the concept and we have also come up with the idea that in here in democracy's largest company there should simply be a development department. And there has also been a good indication of this, at least from the government's support parties and the governing party, and now, as I said, we are in a debate on citizens' rights. I really hope that it will happen in 1 year or 2 years or 3 years' time is an idea that has now met its time, and we haven't determined on a given model. Of course we need to discuss this and there are many suggestions for it, but what is most important for the alternative is that we stand up for our democratic institutions, while at the same time developing the democratic tools that we can then use to get the society that we each deserve and which we deserve together. In conclusion, I really believe that democracy is so much more than the democratic institutions. It is also a way of life, it is a critically enlightened population, it is a people who also want to find consensus and across diversity can come together on how best to solve this problem together. That should be my response to today's debate, which I think has been very, very good, and although we have different perspectives in it, I also see that there is a desire to create as rich a democratic life as possible and thus also to develop the best solutions to the very conflicting issues that we as a society face in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132411	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132416	Now I'm gonna go back to sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who accuses me of turning over a plate, even though I acknowledge the legacy and debt of everything I have been involved in. But the fact is that in foreign and legal policy this Parliament alone, since I changed party, has, in more than 150 cases, limited people's freedoms and freedoms with legislative proposals adopted, so much for the liberal tabs. But Mr. After all, Ole Birk Olesen mentions something that is right and which I think is an important point in this debate and which there was a little chatter in Mr Olesen's report. Uffe Elbæk's speech, that of Mr. Uffe Elbæk may be drawing too much of a gap between the population and this bourgeois thing. Well, we've had a towering turnout. We had that in the European Parliament elections too, the Parliament which no Danes are said to be interested in. We can also see from studies how young people have gone to the polls of the European Parliament. - Sir... Uffe Elbæk does not see a risk in the storytelling and the narrative or the backdrop he himself makes for the discussion that we are going to set up some false contradictions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132532	I am the last person to want to put up false contradictions, and I am sincerely pleased that we saw, not least in the European Parliament elections, that the percentage of votes among young people was really, really good. Good for it! I believe that one of the reasons why this happened was that we have made a great deal of progress in school elections. We have done something to find out whether we can make voting places other than just at the municipal schools, if we can get to the young people. There are all sorts of examples of how we are trying to find out how we can maintain the democratic commitment. I do not want to create a false contrast in any way. I am just saying that there is a difference between the political processes that are going on in this Chamber and the processes that will take place in a given citizen's thing. One isn't better the other. Citizenhood is a complement to representative democracy. And then maybe I will, if I have the opportunity to just say it briefly... or maybe I should wait. If there's a follow-up question, I can catch it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132644	The questioner. We're trying to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132645	Then I could be kind and just say that I wanted to ask what it was, sir. Uffe Elbæk wanted to say. But I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk, if he doesn't see a perspective in that we take the citizen thing in as a whole discussion in the UFO, yes, it sounds like a flying saucer, and it may sometimes almost feel like it, but it is the Committee on the Rules of Procedure where we both sit so that we like to have a joint discussion on how we can open Christiansborg more. There are plenty of possibilities for that. There, of course, you can be inspired by the European Parliament even though many people believe that you cannot do so, but it is a very open parliament in relation to this House and many other things, so that we will have a broader, fundamental democratic discussion where the citizen's thing is involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132729	I would very much like that discussion to be moved into what is called the UFO, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And I very much hope that the discussion will not end here. We need to find a way for it to continue, and preferably from a much broader perspective. I am completely in favour of that. What I wanted to mention in connection with the first question is that one thing is that there is a high percentage of votes, but another thing that was a bit of an aha experience for me when I talked to someone who has studied these citizens' things and has studied democratic processes at all is with what commitment we put our cross in the voting box. When I was young, going to parliamentary elections was a huge event, and what seems to be measured is that the commitment behind the intersection I shouldn't make myself smart about it, but it was a very interesting perspective that was brought in is less today than it was when, for example, I was young. We're gonna go down and vote and so what? So one thing is the percentage of votes, another is the level of commitment behind the intersection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132833	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132835	For my part, I can say that I have proudly voted blank until 2011 and celebrated the festival of democracy in an election. I would like to ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk a little bit about this. Should people who are members of political parties be allowed to be part of this citizen thing? If there is anything we have seen, then it is that there is the opportunity for parties to go in and take over an agenda and influence an agenda, then today they are a very, very cynical size where there are tacticians and spin doctors and all sorts of others who would immediately go in and try to hijack some agenda on an area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116132915	We have thought the proposal so far that elected representatives cannot sit in this citizen thing. We've made some clear markings, and that's one of them. You get pulled out... that's how it's done in France... by the People's Register... and you're asked if you want to take part in this citizen thing. And if you don't have it, it's okay; then the next one is pulled out. What you are trying to do is put together a citizen's thing that reflects society in terms of age, gender, geography, where you live and social economic backgrounds. It is clear that what you want is that it is independent citizens, how you will define it. But the ambition is, of course, that the citizen's thing reflects the society that it represents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133018	Then there's one more question from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133023	Thank you. I wasn't thinking of elected representatives either. I was thinking of people who are members of a political party. Are they going to tell us whether they are members of a political party to be in or not to be in this citizen thing? If they do not have to say so, then it is clear that they will defend the political agenda that that party has when they sit in that bourgeois thing. There are a large number of problems in this. And this applies both to whether you are entitled to remain anonymous about your political affiliation. And if you cannot remain anonymous about it, how do you ensure that there is a broad association?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133054	If I have understood correctly, I think it is an excellent question to raise. What we also stress in the motion for a resolution is that this is as far as we have thought about the model. And we're gonna have to develop this model together. That is also why I think it is very good that Mr. Jens Rohde asks if the discussion can not be moved into the UFO, and then let us have a broad discussion of it • what the weaknesses are, what the forces are in it. We haven't settled on a fixed model today, but we've drawn the big lines in it, haven't we? We have also been able to do so because there are good examples around Europe where experience has already been gained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133134	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133150	The debate is open. The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133216	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is, as the President has just said, tabled by the Danish People's Party, and it is about age-related tax exemption for work as a lay judge or as an electionor. First of all, it is very good that, after all, there are a lot of people who want to take on these very important duties as a lay judge and the elections to be organised. These are the pillars of our democracy and our social design. The Danish People's Party justifies the proposal that greater recognition should be given to pensioners who carry out the important and valuable social duties as lay judge and electionor, as those duties are of course. Dansk Folkeparti refers to the fact that pensioners today can receive tax-free remuneration of up to DKK 11,500. The tax exemption was introduced, as many know, as part of a comprehensive effort aimed at undeclared work. It is aimed at the work in private homes that the individual family should otherwise take care of itself. cleaning, lawn mowing, shopping or picking up children. Pensioners, as I said before, can receive a limited tax-free allowance for what one might call a helping hand for busy families. I do not think it makes much sense to extend this tax exemption to work as a lay judge or as an electionor. There is neither a connection with undeclared work nor with busy families in private homes. I recognise, of course, that the duties of lay judge and electionored are of great social value, as I also said at the outset. Of course, the electoral system helps to maintain order in the voting rooms, it helps to vote, it ensures that voters are not subjected to electoral manipulation or any other type of influence, as it is called, and then they also help with the counting of votes. I am therefore surprised that it is precisely the pensioners who need to be given a tax exemption in particular. I guess the performance of these tasks is equally important, whether you're a young or an older citizen, or you're in other ways involved in this work. The same applies to age-related tax exemptions for lay judges. The judges are an important pillar of our legal system, the elected lay judges should be versatile and, of course, should also be represented equally, as it says, in terms of age, gender, ethnic minority and other considerations, and I think there is no specific justification for tax exemption for this proposed group of people. As a starting point, lay judges should have the same conditions, including economic ones, and that is one of the reasons why the government cannot support that part of the proposal either. Finally, it can be said that the authors of the proposal have not indicated the funding of the proposal either. There are no specific instructions on how to finance the increase in expenditure that will come to this scheme if it is implemented. So, although the intention is good and we must do what we can to get as many people as possible to carry out the two tasks, the government does not believe that this is the right way to go and cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133554	Thank you. So it will start with the rapporteur's line. Sir. Troels Ravn, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133612	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Danish People's Party, and thank you for it. The Danish People's Party will require the government to introduce a work-related tax exemption for work as a lay judge and electionor. Specifically, the Danish People's Party proposes to extend the current age-related tax exemption scheme of DKK 11,200. The current rules on tax exemption for private home help by pensioners are intended as a protection against undeclared work, and it would therefore not be in line with the purpose of the rules if the scheme were extended as proposed here. So even if the Social Democratic Party supports the good intention of the proposal, it is now the case that the remuneration of lay judges and electoral agents is taxable income on an equal footing with other income. Moreover, there is no problem today with under-representation of older people in the composition of lay judges. That is why, in this context too, there is no reason why we should now tax-free this particular group of people. There are a number of citizens who carry out other tasks of social value, for example: by association, where any modest remuneration is also taxable. So it is important for me to say that we in the Social Democratic Party are working for everyone to have a dignified old age. It should be safe to be old in Denmark, communities and shared experiences must fill more in everyday life. Fortunately, many older people today have a good life, and many are actively involved in the association work. They are making a great effort to get the social wheels running around, and that is, of course, very good, and it certainly needs to be recognised. But the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133831	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133834	Thank you for your speech and for the positive reception of the issue. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he recognises that this can be a problem for many pensioners. For one thing, the amount you get for example. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. But it is also something that is recognised in relation to set-off. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you have a supplementary pension and you have an income from a pension or from this, you are set off quite strongly. Yeah, it's not like that after the tax rate, but if you take the set-off into account, there's actually not a lot of dollars left if you take it, for example. is the judge or the electionororordinator. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur cannot agree that this is actually a major problem and that it does not give a very great incentive to pensioners to take up these important jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116133924-2	What I can express a great deal of agreement with is that we must recognise the efforts of pensioners in the work of lay judges and electoral officers. I certainly recognise the citizens who make an effort for society through the work of lay judges and election officers, as far as both younger and older people are concerned. But I do not have a particular reason why the remuneration paid to old-age pensioners for these jobs should be tax-free. This also applies to the problem which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party listed here in relation to the rules on offsetting. I miss particular arguments for us to go in and change those rules. But we agree on recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134015	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134016	It is a good thing to recognise the problem, but what would the Socialists propose to do about it? I mean, if this isn't the solution, and it can be fair enough that you are politically opposed to what would you suggest yourself? The difference between ordinary citizens like the rapporteur and myself is that we are in the labour market; we are part of it. However, people who are pensioners have resigned and have actually stopped working, but choose to say voluntarily: I want to be elected, I want to be a judge. And I think it is important to encourage this in society. And then you just hit the forehead against the wall by being set off so heavily and getting full tax liability, so that there is not this incentive, and that is the problem we want to solve. But what is the rapporteur's own proposal to resolve it and to give it recognition?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134100-2	It is important that we recognise. However, it is also important to say that there are a large number of other citizens who are also carrying out work of social value and where a possible modest remuneration is also taxable. It could be volunteers who receive a symbolic remuneration in connection with their great commitment to society here in Denmark. Now that the rapporteur is calling for proposals on how I and my party should deal with this issue, I think it is also very important to say that there is no under-representation of older people in the composition of lay judges. And that is why there is no reason why we should make it tax-free for the particular age group to take part in these tasks. Well, I don't see a problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134153	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134202	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. When I read the motion for a resolution, there was one basic idea that went through my head, and it was actually a very simple question: why do you want to make an age-related tax exemption? With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wants those who are above retirement age to be able to work tax-free as judges, jurors, electoral rulers or voters. I agree, of course, basically, that the citizens who carry out a bourgeois ombud create a huge value for society, and they benefit both the rule of the people and the rule of law, but they do so regardless of their age. In addition, the motion for a resolution also contains a number of other questions which surprise us in the Left. Firstly, the proposal does not contain any funding. The proposers mention that they estimate that the price of tax exemption will be between 15 and 20 million. kr. annual. But where should the money come from? Secondly, it seems that the proposers are trying to solve a problem that does not exist. Today, fortunately, we have more people who want to join us as judges, jurors, electoral leaders or electoral leaders, and they do a great deal of social work, but they all do so regardless of age. In the Left, we very much appreciate all those who carry out a bourgeois ombud, and that applies to both the elderly and the younger. However, in relation to the proposal, there are several questions that have not been answered: why should one particular age group be exempted? Where's the money coming from? Why do we want to solve a problem that does not exist? The Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134359	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur there are no comments and that is Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. We wait with the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134419	Thank you very much and thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. In the Radical Left, we are always positive about proposals that promote citizenship and active participation in democracy. Doctors must represent a wide range of the population, both in terms of age, gender, employment and ethnicity. In general, we would like to take part in looking at the incentive to get more representative coverage in terms of population, because it is but it is not pensioners that are missing when the posts as lay judges or as electoral agents are to be filled. We need young people, and we need Danes of other ethnic origin. So, of course, our immediate thought is: why not suggest that tax freedom covers all judges and electoralists? It might help the municipalities to find judges and voters if you knew that you did not have to pay tax on the fee you received. It would probably also warm as well in the pocket of a student or a help recipient as in the pocket of a folk pensioner. The proposal here is intended to give pensioners a special boost in their backs to join, but it does not solve the problem in this area, namely that the population is not widely represented, as is otherwise the case. That is why the Radical Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134540	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134547	Thank you. The motion for a resolution, tabled by the Danish People's Party, deals with an age-related exemption from work as a lay judge or electionorordinator. The idea is that our older citizens, who carry out their civic duty by taking part as judges, jurors, electoral directors, etc., should have the same opportunity to work tax-free as if the work were carried out in or in connection with their private homes. The SF considers this idea to be sympathetic enough, but we do not believe that the resolution makes a particular difference to the most disadvantaged pensioners, who are the ones we would prefer to give priority to our policy on the elderly. In addition, we must also stress that they are just receiving a fee for their work, so it is not because the elderly are being used for free labour. They have the same terms as all sorts of others. Nor do we know how the Danish People's Party will pick up the 15-20 million. We do not think that this is a proper priority, given the cost of the proposal, and with a growing group of elderly people who are going to receive greater funding in the future. Therefore, the SF does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134648	Thank you, and we'll move on. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134654	We cannot in fact add anything on the part of the Enhedslisten, apart from what has been said by the Minister, by the Social Democrats, by the Left, by the Radicals and by the Socialist People's Party. These are important functions, but why should a special tax credit be granted to a particular group? Especially within the legal system and in relation to lay judges, it is a challenge that there are many good older citizens in our society who are very active in being laity judges, judges, but we also need, if our judicial system is to be representative, that there are more younger lay judges and more people with ethnic origins other than Danish who go in and become part of our legal system. We cannot support the proposal, although I really believe that there is a good and sensible idea behind the fact that the citizens of our society who are making an effort to ensure that elections are conducted, in terms of being part of our legal system, should have a helping hand. But if we are going to go in and support it and if we are going to enter into a discussion about whether the remuneration should be increased, then it should not be through the tax system. Then it is more logical to do so by generally increasing the remuneration of the people who perform these functions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134817	Thank you. Let's move on. No one from the Conservatives? No. The alternative? No. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134841	I can tell you that the alternative cannot support the proposal. I hope it is correctly reproduced, because otherwise I will really get into trouble. But we're counting on it. This is a fine proposal which we in the New Citizens' Party would like to do a little better, and we could do that by tax-free everyone for this work. If we in this House think that being a lay judge is important and that being a pre-ordinator is important for democracy, and we think it is in New Citizens' terms, because we think it is important bodies, then one could do it completely tax-free to get such a remuneration for that work. This does not mean that people have to adjust insanely to their income or anything, and there is no reason why they should have to pay taxes on the small amount of money when they report to the service of the people and democracy. If you could do everything completely tax-free, then we could solve the problem, so I would recommend that we look at it with DF, i.e. if you could expand it here, so it was everyone who got tax-free. Then we have certainly been extremely positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134949	Thank you. Then we move on to the last rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116134956	The Liberal Alliance cannot support this motion for a resolution to grant special tax exemption to pensioners who carry out certain tasks such as lay judges, election officers and so on. This is because we are fundamentally and in principle opposed to age discrimination in tax legislation. We can see, for example, the reason why we have to do this. has age discrimination in terms of being able to get a driving licence for a car: we have the general approach to it that 10-year-olds are not adults and responsible enough to drive around in a car, so that is why we have age discrimination there and say that you can only drive a car when you are 18 and from you are 17 if you have an adult at your side. We can also see grounds for age discrimination in relation to when you have the right to vote. If you're not old enough to understand a TV newspaper, you're not old enough to vote either. But to have age discrimination in tax legislation, so that you have to pay different taxes, depending on how old you are, we simply cannot see there is any reason to have. We think that there is enough age discrimination, for example. We have a rule that if you are not 18 yet, you do not have as much a bottom allowance as if you are All should have the same bottom allowance regardless of whether they are 18 years old or 18 years old. And we do not want to introduce new discriminations that give people of a certain age higher taxes or people of a different age lower taxes. If you have lower tax money, it must benefit everyone, including those who have not yet reached retirement age. That is why we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135145	Thank you. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135152	I shall begin by regretting my vote. I've had a severe cold, but I hope it'll work out anyway. I would like to start by saying something following on from the previous proposal. It was about the reduction of a citizen's thing, and this proposal actually comes from the fact that there is a single citizen who has written to the rapporteur with an idea in relation to the problem that, precisely if you are a judge, a jury or an electoral commission, you are being set off quite strongly in your services, and that does not, for example, give a very good incentive to participate in these elections. I should first like to mention that when we talk about democracy, we should also bear in mind that there is actually a rather short path from the citizen to the politician, and then mention whether there may be a need for an extra link with a citizen's thing, when you really have a good enough idea to convince a single member of parliament. Then it could end in a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And it's fair enough that you can disagree. I can see the writing on the wall in relation to the fact that there is not much support, and that is quite reasonable politically. However, I would like to mention, following on from the second, that it shows very well that as long as you have a good idea, it is just one in 179 that you have to convince: then we actually stand and have the discussion here. Of course, there is more to it before it is adopted, and that is also the writing on the wall, but I am just saying it in the wake of the second debate. This is, of course, about the fact that, fortunately, there are a great many pensioners and it is good that they participate in our society, that is, as a judge, jury and elections organised in the run-up to elections. It's something that's bourgeois ombud, and I think it's super good that someone does it. In fact, I think it should be encouraged to do so to a greater extent. You get a limited remuneration for participating in these actions, and there you could, as some parties say, just raise the amount instead of looking at the tax. I think that is a perfectly reasonable objection. But the problem is not so much that you pay full taxes on that money, but also that you are actually set off against it. It is the case that, for example, if you do... receive a supplementary pension and receive more than DKK 122,000. in the year, what is also included is the pension that you have saved up yourself, actually being set off quite strongly. So it is not just paying taxes, but you also get a set-off, which is perhaps DKK 30. for every 100 kroner. So it goes without saying that there is not really much incentive and appreciation to say thank you for your help, namely, thank you for helping us, for example. the holding of a parliamentary election or a municipal election. We would like to help to see whether we can give a greater incentive to this. I have full respect for the fact that there can be good solutions to this, and I would really just like to say thank you for the fact that some other parties have proposed alternative ways of doing so. We have looked at section 7 of the law of equations, which says today that if you help with some work related to a home, for example. lawnmowering and other things don't have to pay taxes. So there are actually rules today that give rise to age-related discrimination in tax terms, and we wondered whether it could not be a simple solution that the remuneration, for example, was paid. As the election was arranged, this paragraph came under. It is true, as the Minister of Taxation says, that it has not been part of the purpose from the outset, but it is of course politically determined what the purpose was. Now we could decide here today that there is an additional purpose. We're the ones who decide what the purpose is. The proposal is to formulate whether or not it is also part of the purpose that we actually encourage the elections to be organised. So I don't quite buy the argument that the original purpose was something else. That is correct, but it is we who have set that purpose. I can see that there is no support for the proposal, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for the debate, which, after all, has opened up some opportunities for looking a little wider at the fact that, in general, we should give greater encouragement to being a judge, for example, to young people or other groups. I think that is the positive thing about this debate, namely that, if we cannot perhaps get together on this proposal, we can look a little further at encouraging the election to be organised, the judge, the jury, or whatever it may be. Thank you for the debate, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135545	A brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135548	Thank you. I would like to commend and acknowledge the rapporteur for just taking a call from a citizen into the most beautiful hall in Denmark. I think that is the strength of our democracy. I'm trying to get in my own way to do the same. I am pleased with this kindness and would like to ask if we could expand this, so that applies to everyone. And I actually hear the rapporteur say that one could be open to the fact that this is a foundation of our democracy and the rule of the people, namely that we are giving people an incentive to participate in these things. If we could spread it out so that it applied to everyone, we would definitely be in New Citizens. I also think that we could actually get other parties to say that this is an important thing that we would like to pay in a good way, without having to be bothered and set off against taxes and all sorts of things back and forth, so that you just get a cash payment for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135632	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135633	I would just like to thank you for your approach to this. I think it's obvious that we're trying to keep talking about how you can spread it out. Because I fully understand that there is indeed a challenge to the fact that many young people in particular do not turn themselves up as judges. In the past, it was the parties that appointed them, but now people can turn themselves in. It has helped part of the way. But I'm actually just gonna sign for the positive approach and the willingness to keep looking at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135659	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135711	The debate is open. Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116135739	Thank you. We shall then deal with a motion for a resolution, as was rightly said by the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, on the postponement of the phasing-in of registration fees for electric vehicles. The proposal is to postpone the phasing-in of the registration fee by 1 year, so that the framework for registration fee and bottom allowance in 2020 is also maintained in 2021. The government agrees that several electric cars are an important step on the way to reducing CO2 emissions by 2030, which, fortunately, is agreed by a very broad majority in the Folketing. Therefore, the government and the contractual parties behind the 2020 Finance Act have agreed that the planned increase in the registration fee for electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles on 1 January 2020 will be cancelled and instead the 2019 rates for registration fees for electric vehicles and plugin hybrid vehicles will be continued by 2020. It should be seen in the light of the fact that electric cars are still much more expensive than conventional cars, as they are called, and that the tight phasing-in profile, which several parties behind the resolution have maintained on several occasions, has proved too ambitious. With the 2020 Finance Act, the level of taxation of electric cars by 2020 will be lower than is assumed in the motion for a resolution. At the same time, it is important that the green transition takes place on as cost-effective a basis as possible. Denmark must show that we can make a green transition while maintaining a strong welfare society. The distribution of electric cars must be done in an appropriate way, as more electric cars will reduce the revenue from the registration fee. It is estimated that the motion for a resolution we are debating today, which means that the registration fee is 40%. for electric cars and a base deduction of DKK 77,500. will result in a reduction in revenue, i.e. a loss of revenue, of approx. 800 million kr. 2021. If it is decided instead to continue the 2019 rules until 2021, i.e. 20% and a base allowance of DKr 40 000, which the government has made and for which technical assistance has also been requested to make an amendment, then the amount, i.e. less revenue, rises to 850 million. kr. in 2021. I think that we can all agree on that is a very large amount and therefore I am also surprised that the resolution does not specify just one penny for its funding. The Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars must provide an overall strategy for the deployment of low- and zero-emission cars, as the cars we are talking about here are also called in other contexts. At the same time, the Commission must look at how the state's revenue is being secured, as more electric cars arrive at a commission, which we must remember was also set up by the previous government, with the participation of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, in the spring of 2019. It is expected that this Commission will deliver its recommendations by 2020 so that a new tax regime in the car sector can be negotiated under the 2021 Finance Act. I think it would be appropriate for us to wait for this work, as we have broadly agreed in the Folketing that it should be reduced. And I also think it is appropriate, in the interests of stability in this area, that we wait to look at the recommendations and then organise the new and forward-looking vehicle tax changes in a broad consensus, I hope. This is an important area. The Government has taken a major step from 2019 to 2020 by maintaining the level of taxation. On that basis, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140149	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140152	Thank you. The Minister is presenting a number of high million dollars to finance this motion for a resolution. These are new figures for ours. The minister says it would cost 800 million. If you were to introduce this motion for a resolution. This surprises me somewhat, and I would point out that it is all about the basic allowance for the cheap electric cars of less than DKK 400 000. And with L 90, which we dealt with last week, which was both about the cheap cars and those for over 400,000 kroner, it only required a funding of 125 million. kr. Of course, I would like to have a more detailed calculation and explanation of that. Then the Minister also mentions this with the Commission, that is to say, waiting for the Transport Commission to make recommendations for green conversion. We are, of course, fully in agreement with the Left that these recommendations should be awaited. But I understand that the government's understanding paper said that it would like to bring forward this final report, and now I can read today in the Stock Exchange that the Minister will not press for the Commission to present the report. Can't the Minister try to elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140304	Yeah, I can do that. It is clear that the resolution, as I said, will have an impact on the budget law for 2021, so that is why we will be discussing it in this context. The 850 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Dennis Flydtkjær has asked for it. So it is if we carry on with what the government has now implemented into 2021. And there you'll see these calculations. That's the price for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140330	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140331	So, again, the last part of my question: will the Minister put pressure on us to get recommendations from this Green Conversion Commission so that we can look at some rules to ensure the lower charges for electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140349	Well, I think we should have this discussion all the time. The Commission which is being asked is, after all, one that the author's own party has helped to set up. There is no doubt about that, and I think that we all do, regardless of political affiliation, know that it is a huge rewriting of car taxes that we are talking about here. So we are going to discuss it and this discussion is going to take place here in the autumn, I believe, where it will of course have an impact on the 2021 Finance Act. So that discussion is coming, and I welcome it and it is sincerely thought that the Left will agree with the 70-percent target, because I believe that, regardless of how you turn it around, there must be a major contribution from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140433	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140435	I sit like this wondering and worried about the market for electric cars in Denmark. I could almost imagine that the government is planning that there should be higher tax on electric cars by 2021 than in 2020. Because if the government did not have such a plan, and if the government's intention was that the tax on electric cars by 2021 should not be higher than the tax on electric cars by 2020, then it would be good for Denmark to know now. It would be good for the market to be told: No, no, don't worry, we will not raise the charges for electric cars by 2021. I can hardly imagine any other reason why the tax minister will not tell it than that he will not rule out and may even plan to raise taxes on electric cars by 2021 compared to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140531	Those who have followed a little in the parliamentary debate today remember that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen stood up here not long ago accusing both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative of basing himself on among others. The delusions and conspiracy theories of the world must be understood. At least now I think that sir... Ole Birk Olesen is hit by a giant boomerang in the neck, and it becomes even stronger if you know what the bourgeois government was actually doing. After all, a phase-in was made where the tax on electric cars was increased. That's when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen Minister for Transport. That is why I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen should be very pleased with what the government is doing: we are lowering the tax and continuing the low level into 2020 and have said that the Commission, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen himself has helped to reduce, we are discussing this autumn with an ambition that we should have looked at car taxes. After all, I also think that this should impress a politician such as Mr Beazley. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, that what is being proposed here costs between 800 and 850 million. kr. phase-in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140633	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140634	I will not defend the Social Democratic and Social Democratic Finance Ministers another time against the paranoid ideas of the extreme left about conspiracy in the sale of DONG. I can hear that doesn't fall into good soil. Then I can say that in relation to what the then blue government did, it was a result of what could be agreed in that government. We in the Liberal Alliance were much more willing to remove taxes on cars in general and on electric cars than other blue parties were. The question was: if the government does not plan to raise the tax on electric cars by 2021, is it not best for the market to know?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140715	What I think is best for the market is that we know what we are dealing with, and it is that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that has undertaken that it should be a 70-percent reduction in CO2 It is also an obligation that the Liberal Alliance has chosen not to join. It is also the Liberal Alliance which has voted against the Finance Act and which has been part of a government which has said that taxes should be raised and which is now putting forward a proposal which will cost between 800 and 850 million. kr., without giving as much as a penny in funding. I think that speaks for itself. We have chosen the responsible path: we listen to the Commission and on that basis we decide what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140752	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140754	Thank you. In the Minister's speech there was such a side remark, which I stumbled a little over, that there was this phasing-in of electric cars in the ordinary tax system, that is, where they rise from 20%, then to 40%. And then at 60%. etc. and, as I heard the Minister, it was the parties behind this proposal that had adopted it. I could also understand from the debate with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said it was the fault of the old government. But can the Minister not only confirm that it was an agreement with not only the old government but also with the Social Democrats and Radicals, in other words, that it was the parties behind the agreement that electric cars should now be phased in and then end up having the same tax as all other cars? So, from what the Minister says in that part of the debate, it appears as if it is the parties behind this proposal. Well, it isn't. It wasn't just the old government either. It was the Social Democrats themselves who were involved in this. Can't the Minister just confirm that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140843	That's right. We acknowledge debt and inheritance here and take responsibility for the green conversion of our transport sector. I sincerely hope that we will see that we can come together on the ambitions that we share in this proposal and reach agreement, even though some of the parties involved in proposing this have not chosen to join in the ambitious transformation of our society, which is needed to achieve the 70-percent reduction of CO2 I hope that this can be the way in which we can all come together, that we can change car taxes and that we can turn them in a much more green direction than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140929	Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116140934	We fully support the fact that when we get the results from this Green Transport Commission, we will have a look at car taxes. I think it is a good idea to have it done in such a way that it will be more environmentally friendly cars. But the reason why this motion for a resolution has been tabled is, of course, the challenges if we do not have time to complete it. In other words, you can read in today's Stock Exchange that we will probably make it to the autumn before we get the conclusions, and then we will first have to negotiate before we adopt a legislative proposal, and it might well be that it was very close to New Year. That is why it is relevant to ask whether the Minister admits that it might be a good idea to ensure that electric cars do not get this huge jump when we arrive at the turn of the year. This does not mean that we will hopefully find a solution in time. We still have to negotiate. But it is a huge area, it is a complex area, so there is a great risk that we will not reach it in time. That is why this proposal is relevant and gives a certain amount of calm, so you can count on not having a huge increase next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141026	I think that the intention of the Danish People's Party with this is right, and I hope that it can, so to speak, be converted into a thorough discussion of this. There is no doubt that if we are to achieve the climate targets that all parties in here, with the exception of the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, are agreed on, then we need a change in our transport sector. However, as the Danish People's Party can also see from the amendment that you now get over, it is an expensive round, and that is why you have to remember it. The Commission set up under the previous government has been set up, and I sincerely believe that it would have been a good thing if the previous government had given its wholehearted support to the fact that the Commission should continue its work and complete it, because it is very, very large sums of money we are talking about to be found. However, we will address this when the recommendations of the Car Commission are presented, and then I hope that we can agree in the Folketing and preferably it will be very wide, because that is crucial for both the market and the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141127	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141139	Thank you very much. Social democracy welcomes the intention to get our green transition moving. The transport sector is an important part of that transformation, and green cars are also important in achieving it. Electric cars are therefore a really important step on the way to reducing CO2 emissions by 2030. The Social Democratic Party, with the Finance Act for this year, has contributed to an even more ambitious direction for e.g.: electric cars than this proposal is an expression of. The previous rules would have allowed the registration tax on these cars to rise from 20%. in 2019 to 40%. in 2020. The Finance Act has instead agreed to allow the registration fee to continue at 20%. to 2020 and to allow the existing bottom deductions to continue. Where this is not the case for 2021, this is due to the fact that, as has already been mentioned, a Commission for the Green Conversion of passenger cars has been set up. The Commission aims to provide recommendations for a strategy for the deployment of low and zero-emission cars, including tax measures. The Commission, as we have heard, comes as planned with its recommendations sometime during the year, so that adjustments to the fees can be negotiated together with the 2021 Finance Act. The Social Democrats therefore reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141400	I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party agrees with the intention of this motion for a resolution, just as we are very pleased that the Finance Act continued the low taxes on electric cars. However, if we now agree with the intentions, then action is also needed, because we are at risk of a complete halt to the market for electric car sales. Car importers are already ordering electric cars home next year, so we need to ensure some calm on it so that the electric car market does not stop. And it's not just us who are worried. The Danish Elbil Alliance also says that they are concerned and that they had hoped for clarification as early as this spring. And that's why you're not happy it's being pulled out. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a need for a proper framework for the industry to be guaranteed now?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141456-2	Yes, exactly, and that is why it is quite all right to wait for that Commission to be allowed to make statements which will provide the basis for making proper decisions and a secure framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141509	I understand you want to wait for this commission. We in the Left would like to do that too. However, the problem is that they will not make any recommendations until the summer, and then we will not be able to negotiate until the autumn. It's not gonna work if we already have to know what the rules will be for 2021, in order to secure the market. And if we do some stable framework conditions now, that doesn't prevent us from doing something else later. After all, car importers will have to know the rules for 2021 already now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141537	If I may go somewhere else quite differently: in the past, there was a fantastic system for the net settlement of electricity from solar cells on the rooftops. Then a scheme was made that was so good that it ended up running out of control and no one could control it and no one could pay the bill that arose. In my world, you risk the same if you make decisions before you have a proper basis for making decisions. We have to do this with respect for the fact that there's also a bill that has to be paid. After all, the proposal that we have seen here alone suggests that somewhere between 800 and 850 million would be needed in 2021. kr., as the Minister has also said. We'd like it to happen on solid ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141617	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Sometimes things can go so fast that the President does not just notice. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141626	After all, we are dealing with B 51, which is about postponing the increase in the tax on electric cars, and the purpose is, in fact, to bring about calm on the market. Because I really believe that we all support the idea that it is good to wait for the Green Transport Commission, which must, of course, make some recommendations on how to organise our transport sector differently, so that it becomes more climate-friendly and perhaps also safer cars. I think that is a very good thing, but it is one of the main objectives of preventing developments from stalling in this area. That is, as it were, partly guaranteed by the Finance Act, which ensures a low tax by 2020 and which ensures that electric cars under DKK 400 000. is exempt, but there is therefore no security in 2021. Why is it so important to have the next year? Yes, it is because these recommendations from the commission appear to be rather late, as is also shown by the Stock Exchange today. They may come first, so we will be negotiating it after the summer holidays, and that is, frankly, rather complicated matter and probably also difficult to agree on. However, once it may be finished by the end of the autumn and we have to have a bill in consultation and adopt a bill, then there is a good chance that we will get over the turn of the year, and it does mean that we are back at this effect, which we have talked about so many times in here, i.e. such a stop-go effect, where it kills the electric car market, because you do not know what the tax is like after the turn of the year. That is why I think it is a good idea to extend it for an extra year, so there is, after all, that security. Then it may well be that if we are optimistic we can quickly close an agreement on a future green transport sector and that we can resolve it, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. But that does not prevent us, after all, from providing a certain amount of security in 2021. Then there is a little debate about what is then with the funding. We have written in the motion for a resolution that in connection with this climate action plan we are about to look at and where, it has to be said, there will probably be a lot of money being moved around in order to be able to make a green switch to sit down and that we will also find the money for next year's delay in relation to the electric cars. Because I really find it hard to imagine that there would be some parties that expected nothing to happen next year. If we don't make an agreement on the basis of this Green Transport Commission, what about next year? So is it just supposed to be allowed to buzz up there and then have a negative incentive to buy an electric car? I don't think there's a lot of people in here backing that up. So I really think it would make sense for us to set out together to ensure that the electric cars also had a fairly good framework next year, and we could, in fact, secure it by tabling together an amendment to the legislative proposal that is already in operation, where we might be able to talk in committee about finding a solution to it, and so it was out of the world. Because we often see in here that it's about who's gonna get credit for it. So if you can't vote for this motion for a resolution, then I can live with the fact that you don't do it. There may also be an amendment from the Minister or from some others. I can actually live with that. However, if you go for the ball, which you should do, I do not think there are many people who think it is a good idea that electric cars will rise quite sharply in tax in 2021, and we could then secure that by finding a solution to it. Here in the motion for a resolution there is one suggestion, and I am, in fact, willing to look at whether there could be other solutions. But not surprisingly, the Danish People's Party supports the motion for a resolution that we ourselves are helping to table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116141947	Thank you. There are no comments. So we can move forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142004	Thank you. I would like to pay tribute to the bourgeois parties for putting forward this motion for a resolution in the common front and thereby making themselves clearly visible on the green agenda, which is, after all, a common agenda. The climate doesn't care about party letters. That being said, I cannot help quoting the outgoing Obama, who, after Trump had been elected, was asked whether he was now concerned about the climate and who quite quietly replied: The reality is catching up with us all. It must be said with appalling clarity that it happened: 2019 was the second hottest year ever, and the predictions for 2020 promise even more extreme weather. We are very busy with the green transition, which, moreover, will be comparable to the industrial revolution to its extent; we will all be prepared to do so. That is why our ambitions are also higher than what this proposal proposes, and we expect higher ambitions from all parties when the Commission report comes and we are going to work on it. We discussed this with the government and the other support parties during the budget negotiations, where we took the view that we already have an agreement that taxes will not increase until the new tax system is ready. We trust that, so we will not commit ourselves to this otherwise excellent motion for a resolution, and we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142132	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142136	Thank you for that and thank you for the fine rapporteur's speech from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. We are very pleased, in the Left, that the Radical Left would like to help ensure green transport and would also like to have even higher ambitions. And I understand that Mrs Kathrine Ollldag believes that in the Radical Left there has been a guarantee that a low tax on electric cars will also be guaranteed in 2021, in order to ensure the green conversion. However, the Finance Act states that the intention is only to secure the low taxes. I guess that's not the same as a guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142209	No, but I do not think I used the word guarantee in my rapporteur's speech either. I think we understand that it is precisely our intention to continue this in 2021. And we trust that. We had an excellent discussion during the financial law negotiations, in which the common understanding was founded.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142227	Here you go again, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142227-2	But then I do not understand why we cannot simply vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142234	There are some technical details in what the Minister has also explained and which are, of course, drawing in the wrong direction. And because we have already committed ourselves to an understanding that we have had during the financial law negotiations, we will not commit ourselves to this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142250	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142253	I just want to arrest the nonsense that 2019 was the hottest year ever on the planet. That is simply not correct. There have been many other years that have been warmer. I would also like to say that one can vote in favour of these reductions in registration fees because one would actually just like the Danes to be allowed to keep more money themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142314	2019 was the second hottest year ever since we started measuring temperatures in the world. The WTO, the DMI and other research institutions agree on this. So it's kind of a fact, and you can't get around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142335	No, that is correct, but now the rapporteur also adds this when it started to be measured with thermometer and the way we measure. We started on that from about 1850. And it is true that it is correct from there, but that is not what the rapporteur said in the first place. There she said it was the warmest year ever, and it is evident that earlier in history there have been other years that have been much warmer. And that's what I contested. But it is true that when you add that it is from when it was measured, we can agree on it. But it also comes to the fact that in 1850 you were on your way out of a small minii period and therefore have a rather cold base year. But that's fair enough: if you count it from the thermometer measured, then we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142409	There was probably a great deal of warmer here when the Earth was being created many millions of years ago, so we can't land that between us two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142418	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142427	Thank you. With the resolution, the bourgeois parties want to postpone the phasing-in of the registration fee for electric cars by one year. And it is not so long ago that we last debated electric cars here in Parliament, so it will probably come as no surprise when I say that we in the SF have sympathy with the content of this proposal as a starting point. When the Left Government, together with the Social Democracy, DF and Radical Left, entered into an agreement in 2015 that electric cars should now be covered by a fully phased registration fee by 2020, it was black thinking at a time when the Danes became more aware of the green transition. And as my colleague Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also said at the time in 2015, the electric car is the key to the green conversion of our car park, and SF will of course work to ensure that we have a good framework for electric cars and so do we with the Finance Act. And in reality, all these are just some tasks that the Commission led by Anders Eldrup is going to help us solve, so we want to wait for it to come up with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142526	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142529	The rapporteur says that you have sympathy for the proposal and that you want to help ensure good framework conditions so that there is more calm on the market and that you would have liked to have seen some changes from 1 January 2021. Does the rapporteur not think that a little contradicts oneself when one does not want to vote in favour of the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142553	No, I do not think so, because this really seems most of all to me to be a proposal that should disrupt the process a little and distract the focus from the fact that the bourgeois parties really set this agenda down when they had power. Now we're actually doing something. Now we ensure cheaper electric cars, but it also requires that we have a good process, which is why we must, of course, wait for the Commission led by Anders Eldrup instead of adopting unfunded proposals here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142618	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142619	I think it is very good that we look forward to the Commission making its recommendations and doing so in the Left too. But why does this prevent the adoption of this resolution, which means that we will ensure market calm as from 1 January 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142631	First of all, this proposal is unfinanced and I think it is quite essential. Secondly, I think it is important that we have a process in which we wait for the conclusions they make and then we take it from there. I think the market can do that, too. And the market is also aware that we have a government and some support parties now that take the green agenda very seriously and therefore want to ensure that there are financial incentives to buy an electric car.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142657	Thank you. There's no more comments, and then it's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116142706	This proposal is about requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal that postpones the phasing-in of the registration fee for electric vehicles by 1 year, so that the registration fee and bottom deduction framework for 2020 will be maintained by 2021. I would like to start by saying that there is a lot of discussion about what the Commission of the European Communities, the Eldrup Commission, should come up with. Again, I would like to point out that in February last year, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we presented a climate plan which delivers on the three key parameters that need to be taken seriously in order to be able to take a climate plan seriously. Firstly, the climate plan contains the instruments for which we have measured the concrete CO2 Secondly, the plan is fully funded. Thirdly, the plan is financed in such a way that it is socially fair. It is the three pillars that are needed. Part of our climate plan also contains the necessary change in transport, and we are making a change which will mean that by 2030 there will be over 1 million electric cars on the street. That is not an objective; it is a concrete calculation of some specific instruments that can lead to the objective. So the work currently being done by the automobile commission, we spent a great many months before February last year to make a very concrete suggestion as to how it could be carried out in practice. So I also hope that the Eldrupkommissioner sits and looks at the Enhedslisten climate plan, including the many technical annexes on the Enhedslisten website, which very precisely describes how this could be done specifically. We could actually begin the negotiations now on the basis of the calculations and technical annexes and the plan from Enhedslisten, which, as such, has been there since February 2019. I think it is important to say that the scrapping premium for petrol, diesel, and hybrid cars will be raised from 2.200 DKK. $20,000. In 2026 just to give an example. We are raising the tax on diesel by 69 øre, which is 22 per cent, and we are raising the tax on petrol by 69 øre, which corresponds to an increase of 15 per cent. However, the entire revenue from the increased taxes will be returned to the citizen through the green cheque, and the increase in the green cheque will be removed once the proceeds are cancelled, as petrol and diesel cars are completely phased out. There is a financial gap, but it is being covered by the introduction of a toll: we are introducing road pricing, which will in the long term be the way in which we have to maintain a tax base. But on the other hand, there will be a massive reinforcement of the whole effort with electric cars, where electric cars will be phased into the charging system as such, and we will introduce a cash grant for the purchase of electric cars for the first 250,000 electric cars after a stair model, which will be given DKK 100,000. in cash grants for the first 100,000 electric cars, 75,000 DKK. in cash grants for the next 100,000 and 50,000 in grants for the last 50,000. Then, of course, a pool must be set up for fast-loaders, and all parking spaces must be prepared for electric cars, and electric cars must be given priority in traffic, and we therefore propose that municipalities should be able to set up special lanes for electric cars and give priority to electric cars in public parking spaces. These are key elements of the climate plan presented by Enhedslisten and the climate plan, which also includes a change in road transport. Then there is the proposal here, which is that the tax exemption should be extended into 2021, and I must be honest and say that this was also our starting point in the budget negotiations. In our view, this would have brought more calm. However, what we saw in the financial legislation negotiations, what we agreed on, is, so to speak, that the extension of the tax exemption applies, or that registration tax is not increased. This will not be done by 2020, but it is on the understanding that this year we will have an agreement that can come into force with effect per year. 1 January 2021. Then it is true that we will be busy, but then we will just have to hurry, hurry slowly, hurry thoroughly. It must be understood that, if the report is before the summer break, we can start negotiations even before the summer break. We can also start negotiations at the beginning of August, so we have 2, 3, 4 months to negotiate in earnest before it is to be integrated into a financial agreement. So it is a tight schedule that has been set, but it is realistic, if only we start working early enough after the summer break this year, I would say. But there's no doubt that we're gonna be busy. We will be very busy this year at all, because it is a real negotiating year in which we will have to negotiate climate action plans, compensatory reform, a large number of major reforms that will take a great deal of our time. This is one of the elements we have to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143215	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143218	I have to say that I do not understand the Enhedslisten. Sir. Rune Lund has many good intentions and presents many good plans here for the green transition and for what you want. And Mr. Rune Lund also says that we can sort of just get started now. We can just start negotiating now, and then we will still be able to change the rules when we get the Commission's report, I understand, this autumn. But why is it that we cannot just vote in favour of this proposal? Then we will ensure calm on the market and we will ensure the low taxes, also in 2021, which is so important for all the car importers who have already started to book cars for next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143255	I say we can start negotiating now. Because discussion has been that we need a basis on which to discuss, and then I just say: that basis exists, at least in the form of the Enhedslisten climate plan, which is fully understood, fully funded and socially fair, also in the field of transport. This is a very solid basis on which, in our view, negotiations could be started, and in any case that will be what we are going to go to the negotiations with. Then we agreed in the Finance Act negotiations that there should be political clarification and an agreement so that legislation can be adopted per year. 1 January 2021, and this is an ambitious timetable, but I think that makes good sense. I have to say that if I am going to say something that I do not really understand about the Left, it is that the Left is making a proposal here which costs a three-digit million in the very high class, without indicating a funding. At the same time, in the context of the financial law negotiations, there was a disagreement on a great many of the financing proposals included in the Finance Act and, at the same time, it was not possible to answer what was meant to be withdrawn from the Finance Act. So if you like the Left not to raise the registration tax on electric vehicles by 2020 as part of the Finance Act, then you may also owe an explanation of where the money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143409	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143410	After all, the rapporteur is now moving far away from my question and is beginning to talk about funding, but I can comment on that very briefly. After all, we have always said that we want to secure the low taxes by 2020 and 2021. And so it was also part of our financial bill to help finance it in the forthcoming climate negotiations. And we will also help finance it with the 2021 Finance Act. If the rapporteur does not want to vote in favour of this proposal, then all you have to do is be aware that you are creating great uncertainty in the market and that, if we do not find a solution, this means that the bottom allowance for low-tax cars is completely gone from the turn of the year and that the general tax will increase from 20 to 40 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143457-2	First of all, in relation to funding: I think that funding is incredibly important. And when it is written in the proposal that the proposal is proposed to be financed in the context of the negotiations on the climate action plan or as part of the funding under the 2021 Finance Act, it is not, of course, a statement of concrete funding. That's just saying, we're taking the money from the room. But what is it that is not to be spent on from the room? Is it the psychiatry that we chose to strengthen by 600 million? kr. A year? Is this primary school? Are these day care centers? Is it the women's crisis centers that don't need money? I mean, where is the money to be taken from? Actually, I think this is pretty irresponsible. However, a plan has been drawn up and it means that the rules will be amended from 1 January 2021, and this will happen, whether this proposal is adopted or not. Because that is the plan, and that is the ambitious plan that we must stick to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143541	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so thank you. Rune Lund. The next rapporteur, whom I can see is present in the Chamber, is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143600	I love cars, I hate registration fees, and I simply do not understand the socialists' view of people. That's how short it can be said. I love cars because I love the smell of them. I love the freedom that allows you to transport yourself and your family around; the fact that it allows us to live in places other than just right in the big cities, which are not covered by public transport; the freedom to sit behind the wheel, put on some good music, roll out there. I love to stand and talk and geek about cars. It's a good social tool to get to know each other. On the other hand, I hate the registration fee, because what is it doing? It harms ordinary families of children so that they cannot buy a safe car for themselves and their families. So here in Denmark we have to drive in far less safe cars than they, for example. can do in Germany and Sweden. That's what the registration fee does. This leads me to the end: I simply do not understand the socialist view of human beings whether it is on this side of the hall or on the other side of the hall. For what is it that makes a tax on such an essential thing for a family as a car • something that children's families today cannot do without. Many families of children must even have two. But due to the charges in here from the Folketing, they are forced to buy mini-cars which are completely peeled if they are backed up on a motorway. It's irresponsible. This isn't a tax on income. This isn't a progressive tax payment. No, it hits ordinary people who spin and save. Although they may hand in approx. 50% to the Danish Parliament in tax, they still manage to spin and save so that they might buy a car. But then it is said by the Folketing: you must buy a cheap car, because the better car you want to buy, the more we will punish you. What is the basic view of people: that you want to punish them because they save up to buy a car? So the more you have saved up, the better car you want, the safer car you want for you and your family, the more the Folketing will punish you. So this tax does not in any way make sense, and that is why it must be abolished, and that is the position of the new citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143856	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116143908	Thank you. There is no doubt whatsoever that it would be best for Denmark and for the market for electric cars if we already knew what charges would be imposed on electric cars in 2021. After all, you see the effect of the uncertainty that exists today and has also been in the past, namely that people's car consumption will be different by the uncertainty about what happens after the turn of the year. In other words, there are people who sooner than otherwise choose to change their car because they are afraid that the car they want will become more expensive after the turn of the year. We have dealers who do not know how many cars they have to book for 2020 because they do not know how many cars can be sold when they do not know what the charges are like. That is why there is no doubt at all about this, and I believe that 100 per cent. MEPs agree that it would be good for Denmark if we could know what the charges on electric cars would be in 2021. Therefore, there can be no other explanation why the government will not tell us where the level of the tax will be by 2020 than that it will not at this stage guarantee that the charges will not rise by 2021. If the government had already decided to keep taxes at the same level, it would be good for both the government, Denmark and the electric car market to say so now. That is why we have to conclude that when we do not say it now, it is because we are still uncertain whether we might be able to raise taxes in 2021. The Minister of Taxation's speech here from the Parliamentary Chair suggests this too, when, I think, he very much claims that it costs 800 million. kr. implementing this proposal in 2021. This suggests that it is because the government is afraid that it will cost too much money if taxes are not raised in 2021. I mean, it costs if you don't raise taxes in 2021. The government has a very pessimistic view of how much it will cost to the Treasury if taxes are not raised in 2021, and that is probably why. The Treasury Minister, the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister need the money, which is why they plan to increase the tax on electric cars in 2021. If there are parties in this Parliament in addition to the blue parties who have tabled the motion for a resolution here, who agree that the charges on electric cars should not rise in 2021, then they should vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. For then the government is obliged not to allow the charges to rise in 2021. Let me also stress that when a financial agreement is concluded, such as the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Alternative and Radicals, it only binds in the financial year for which the financial agreement has been signed. In other words, we are free to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and to create a majority for the next financial year, on which no financial agreement has yet been concluded. So there is no excuse for not wanting to put pressure on the government for the government not to go around trying to get more money from electric cars in 2021. There's no reason why you shouldn't put that pressure on the government. If there is a majority in favour of this resolution now here, the first victory has already been achieved in the financial law negotiations in 2020 for the 2021 Finance Act. You don't even have to fight for it, because there is a majority in the Folketing that has paved the way for the charges on electric cars not to be raised in 2021. When you don't vote for this, I'm forced to think: Well, will Enhedslisten and SF also raise taxes on electric cars in 2021? Why don't they take this formulation with a kissing hand and make sure that the Folketing says to the government: You can forget all thoughts about raising taxes on electric cars in 2021? Why don't you just vote in favour? Now, if it is true that you want to make sure that the charges on electric cars do not rise in 2021 when you vote against this resolution, instead go to the finance negotiations with the government, and then you have to start the fight with the government there. Instead of getting started with the educators, the doctors and all the other groups you would like to favour immediately, you first have to have a victory home on the electric cars if you do not vote for the resolution now. So that puzzles me. We shall, of course, vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144357	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Bjerre, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144413	In the left, we want more green cars. It is absolutely essential to achieve our climate objectives that we have more green transport. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. Our motion for a resolution is intended to ensure a continued tax exemption for electric cars under DKr 400 000. in 2021. This ensures that the market for green electric cars does not stall. The former Left Government set up a Transport Commission a year ago to make recommendations for the green conversion of passenger cars in Denmark. We look forward to those recommendations, but the Transport Commission is still working. There should have been a partial conclusion to their work here at the end of 2019. Unfortunately, it has not arrived, and it is only this summer that they now expect to make their recommendations in individual areas. This means that we do not yet know the content of the recommendations that they will make at some point, and that means that we will be able to begin negotiations at the earliest in the autumn to ensure long-term and stable framework conditions for zero and low-emission cars. This is untenable, and that is precisely why we are here today. It is important to ensure that the sale of green vehicles does not stall while the commission works. Many car importers are already ordering cars home, which they are going to sell in 2021. They need to know the tax rules under which they have to sell their cars so that they can have a clear sense of how much they can expect to sell. The same applies to consumers. Buying a car is for the vast majority a little more than just a grip in the pocket. It's a big decision. It would be a real shame if many of those who are considering buying a new electric car chose a petrol or diesel car because it would be the price-wise safe choice. In the Left, we want green vehicles to be an attractive alternative to petrol and diesel cars, and if we are to achieve our climate targets, we must ensure that many more Danes choose the electric car when they have to buy a new vehicle. During today's debate, there have been many questions about the financing of this proposal. The Left is ready to give priority to the green transition, and we are also ready to use the room to finance it. The funding of this motion for a resolution must be made in the context of the negotiations on the Climate Action Plan in the spring of 2020, and if funding cannot be included in this, then we will be helping to find funding under the 2021 Finance Act. I had thus hoped that the other parties of the Danish Parliament would have seen with a little more goodwill to ensure green transport in the future and would therefore also vote in favour of this motion for a resolution tabled jointly by the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. In this context, I would also like to thank them for their good cooperation. But I cannot help thinking that the reluctance on the part of the red bloc is due to the fact that we stand here together as a blue block. At least I don't understand the red parties. I do not understand why we are not going to vote in favour of this resolution. There is great uncertainty in the electric car market and there is a risk that the market will stop altogether. Why do you not want to be involved in ensuring green transport? I understand that we will be waiting for the conclusions of the Transport Commission, but that does not prevent us from voting in favour of this proposal. I would therefore like to appeal to the red parties to rethink their position on this proposal in the context of committee work if they seriously believe that a green transition will be ensured. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144753	Thank you. In fact, there is no brief comment to be made to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, but there is one who has asked to speak for a second round and thus as rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144810	Thank you, President. It is because, in the course of my rapporteur's speech, I forgot to welcome the alternative and say that the alternative cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144820	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200116144836	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 17 January 2020, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
