ParlaMint-DK_20200423100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 179 (Proposal for a law on products and market surveillance). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 180 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100030	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100057	Thank you for the floor. On a sad and sad background, we have all learned over the past few weeks about corona and covid-19. Denmark, like all other countries, is hit by a worldwide health crisis and it affects people and societies in every way. Ultimately worst it is for those who have lost their lives to the disease, for those who have lost a family member or a friend, and for those who have become seriously ill. The health crisis is also bad for the people who have lost their jobs and for the owners of a company or store who find that the economic basis is crumbling between their hands. We cannot but be greatly affected by the crisis, the tragedies and its scale. No one can therefore be in doubt about the extent of the situation in which Denmark is in both health and economic terms. We have said from the outset that we will do whatever it takes to ensure that Denmark gets the best out of this crisis and that we must do everything we can to prevent companies from closing down and people from losing their jobs. The whole parliament has also said this and collaborated on it. That is why we must thank and acknowledge the whole of the Danish Parliament for coming together when it really matters. The urgent legislative proposal that we are discussing here today has emerged on the basis of the agreement reached by the government and a comprehensive Parliament on 18 April 2020 to provide additional liquidity assistance to a number of companies that are currently severely affected by the corona crisis. The draft law proposes that small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to receive an amount equivalent to the VAT paid on 2 March 2020 as an interest-free loan. For companies covered by Method 4 of the Income Tax Act, it is proposed that an amount equal to the payroll fee calculated for the first quarter of 2020 and an amount equal to one quarter of the payroll fee for the profit for the income year 2019 may be paid again as an interest-free loan. It is proposed that loans be requested from 4 May until 15 June 2020 onwards. In addition, it is proposed that payment deadlines for payroll fees paid according to method 4 be extended for the second and third quarters of 2020 by 6 and 4 weeks respectively. In addition, it is proposed to temporarily abolish the tax account ceiling. This is proposed for systemic reasons, by increasing the threshold so significantly that it really corresponds to the abolition of the threshold. Finally, it is proposed that the Minister of Taxation may extend the time limits laid down in the tax legislation, which relate to the time limits laid down in Articles 10 to 13 of the Tax Control Act, when it is considered impossible or disproportionately difficult for groups of taxpayers to meet the deadlines. I know that this bill will be of great importance to many people and companies in Denmark. There are already a number of positive statements made by mail and by telephone. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100423	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100428	Yeah, thanks for that. We support this bill, of course, and we have been involved in negotiating it. However, I would like to ask the tax rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party whether the Social Democratic Party is satisfied with the prospects that the government has put forward for the Danish economy in the future. So, we get enough answers from the government, compared to how long this shutdown is going to last and how long it's going to have an impact on the corporate economy? Because what we're doing with this bill is we're helping the corporate economy in a situation where society has been shut down to a large extent by the government. But does the Social Democrat rapporteur think that enough answers are given to how long this should take and what it takes to open up society again so that the economy can get back on its feet?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100529	This is an extremely important question which the rapporteur is asking here: how long is this going to take? But I just have to admit that I am not in a position to give that answer at all. I believe that we are all deeply affected by the situation, the health crisis, deeply affected by its consequences for our society, for people, for businesses, for jobs and, above all, the consequences for those who become ill. But how long this will take, I'm not in a position to answer, but I think that the priorities that the government and the Folketing together. This is about people, that we should avoid people getting sick, that people die. And this is about holding hands under our businesses, holding hands under the economy, preventing people from losing their jobs, and that is what we are doing with this bill that we are dealing with urgently here today. So, unfortunately, I cannot give another answer to the rapporteur, although I would like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100641	It's just interesting because no one else in Danish society knows if this shutdown should last until an effective vaccine may be found. And there I would like to know whether it has been communicated to members of the Social Democratic Parliament that the decommissioning should last until an effective vaccine has been found or whether it is something about opening up society earlier than when an effective vaccine has been found. Because it could take a year or a year and a half before a vaccine arrives. Have the members of the Social Democratic Parliament and the tax rapporteur been told that this is such a long time for this closure of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100720	I believe that all of us, all people on the globe, are waiting for an effective vaccine, an effective treatment of covid-19. Until then, we, who are responsible, for example, politicians in the Danish Parliament, must take the necessary measures, for example with the draft law that we are dealing with urgently today, where we are trying financially to keep our hands under our businesses and keep their hands under people so that they do not lose their jobs. And then we will be able to gradually open up society as health authorities also make recommendations, but that is at the level that is going on. We are making some political conclusions, also on the basis of some recommendations that we are getting from some health authorities, who are the main people in this field, and where the priority then again for me and the government must be that it is primarily about ensuring health, that we have the capacity in our healthcare system, and that we are doing everything we can to secure the economy of our society, for our businesses, so that we avoid unemployment and that people lose their jobs. That is why I am very pleased with this draft law today, which is why we naturally support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100837	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100841	I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that if Article 27 of the epidemic law had been retained, companies would be better off than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100852	Great respect for the desire to spread the debate beyond the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. I think we should concentrate our energies today on this bill we are dealing with urgently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100920	Well, that's very relevant, because section 27 is about whether companies can recover their losses if they are ordered to close. So it's very relevant to say that the reason we have this aid package, and the reason we're debating this bill, is because section 27 of the epidemic law was changed. So I do not understand at all that the rapporteur can say that this is not relevant. We are only standing here because that paragraph was amended, and then I just wonder if, in the rapporteur's view, it would be better if Article 27 had been retained than now. It is a quite simple question, and it is of extreme relevance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423100955-2	I think this is a rhetorical question. What is at stake here for me as rapporteur is to back up a legislative proposal which we are dealing with urgently and which will hold hands under the liquidity of our companies, which will give our companies better opportunities to get through this crisis in the best possible way, so that we avoid closures and avoid job losses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101022	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. Welcome very warmly to Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101034	Denmark is in a serious situation and is in a very serious situation. As we deal with this bill, both Danish and international economics are coming to a halt; a scenario that just a few months ago seemed completely unthinkable to us. And, unfortunately, there is much to suggest that we are at risk of an economic crisis that can draw so deep a clue that the financial crisis, in comparison, may seem like small ripples on the surface. The financial aftermath of the Corona crisis can actually get ugly... really ugly. That is why, of course, the Left supports all initiatives that can help as many companies as possible to get through the crisis in full. This draft law on tax policy initiatives, which we are dealing with urgently today, stems from the political agreement reached this weekend and which a unanimous Parliament is behind. It is important for me to point out that several of the measures are in fact some that the Left, together with other parties, have been pushing for a long time for implementation, for example. That small and medium-sized enterprises can now get back the VAT and payroll they have paid back as interest-free loans; these are measures that will provide many companies with the liquidity they need so badly right now. And with regard to those companies which, fortunately, have the necessary liquidity, yes, we are suspending the ceiling on the tax account. This means that these companies, which have suffered more money on the coffin floor, avoid paying negative interest rates in the bank, and then the measure also makes good sense because, as most people will know, the State is currently in a position to do so. has a rather large borrowing requirement. So to put it in good Danish, it's a win-win situation. With that said, I would like to mention that, despite our immediate enthusiasm for the bill, the Left also has a few questions on it. For example: We wonder a little about the lasting economic consequences, just as we wonder why it is necessary to require so-called auditors to sign up in relation to the tax credit; that is to say, there is nothing more than a time advance in payment. Moreover, it is not quite clear whether it is contrary to the rules if companies pay a higher amount in the tax account than the liquidity advantage they have gained thanks to the delay. We in the Left are looking forward to clarifying these issues in the brief examination of the proposal by the Committee on Budgets. However, to return to the heart of the matter, I would like to say that the Left naturally supports the proposal. On top of the hat, the Left is pleased that the government has finally listened to some of our proposals, which are aimed solely and exclusively at helping the Danish economy through the crisis; something we should all be able to support wholeheartedly and quickly. Although these measures are good, I also have to say that that is far from enough. Moreover, it is no secret that the Left would have liked the government to have done even more to support Danish business. In short, the Left is certainly not of the opinion that the government is doing enough. There are, for example: We need to do even more for entrepreneurs, not to mention the many self-employed people who are each hard hit by decommissioning. If we do not do more than we have already done, then we simply run the risk of wrongdoing and harming Denmark for the simple reason that the business community is the lifeblood of the Danish economy and thus of the welfare society. If business dies, we can wave goodbye to the welfare society, which cannot exist without business. So let's get to work now. It's Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101414	Thank you very much, Mrs Bjerre. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Denni Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101423	After all, we are discussing urgent legislation on the basis of the covid-19 crisis. The reason for this particular bill is the agreement, which was widely concluded on Saturday, about a help package for business. This is an agreement that helps to hold hands under companies and workplaces with this bill by ensuring liquidity for businesses and helping entrepreneurs. We think this is really positive, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that we are part of that agreement. After all, the bill contains several different elements. The first thing I want to mention is this aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, where they can apply for an interest-free loan on the basis of their VAT and payroll tax payments. Overall, it will contribute up to 35 billion. kr. I think it is quite obvious that it is liquidity that is lacking in the short term. Then we will come to a situation later where we will see if we can get the economy back on track. We'll have to deal with that later. However, the fact that we are helping to provide liquidity to businesses is certainly quite positive. However, I have a few reservations which I will try to mention and which I will try to ask about in committee. We support the bill, of course, because we are part of the agreement, but I think that as parties involved in the agreement we must try to discuss whether this repayment period is realistic. In the case of loans of up to a total of 35 billion. kr. must be repaid within 11 months. I have to say that I think it does not seem so realistic that in such a short time we can have a Danish economy that has got so much on its feet that we can repay such large loans. I believe and hope that we will find a situation in which we can make profits in companies, but at the same time we can get so much air under our wings that we can repay these large sums, I think it will be very difficult. I think we should reconsider whether we believe that 11 months is realistic for a repayment, i.e. whether we could not repay over a longer period or just have a deferred period. If that is not possible, we must, of course, stand by what we have agreed, but I hope that we can try to have a discussion among the parties to find out whether it can be a way or a way to do it. Then I have some questions in committee about the control of this. As the tax rapporteur, we are therefore somewhat afraid of experience, because when there is money paid out of the Treasury, there are quite a lot of examples that there will then be an open window to cheat and swindle. We have seen this in many areas. The most famous thing is the profit tax scandal where we were cheated for a lot of billions of dollars. I hope that will not happen here, but I have a number of questions about how to define it and ensure that there is not going to be an awful lot of fraud. You can, for example. have received an estimate of VAT. When you pay the estimate, can you still get the loan that you have just paid out? I don't exactly see that from the bill. I hope you can't do that. We need to protect ourselves against those who have been scammed in the past. Should they still be able to get this loan? No, I don't think they should. So there are plenty of things you can do, both in order not to pay out the loans, i.e. with such digital stop blocks before, but also what you then make of checks afterwards to ensure that you have not hit the wrong ones. So I have a number of questions for that, so that we can at least get it into committee reading. Then there are some other good elements in the bill. That's one of them. this tax credit issue, which has also been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, that is, something that typically helps entrepreneurs. I think that is super positive. In addition to keeping our hands on the companies that are there, we must obviously also keep our hands on those who are the jobs of the future. Here it is actually just the advance of some payout, so it is actually quite a small step, but it can be a huge handshake for small businesses, which may have difficulty surviving here at the beginning of their years of life. Then there is the postponement of payment for payroll tax, which I also think makes very good sense. It is not something that is so big in crowns and ears, but the typical small companies, as this is a physiotherapist, or whatever it may be, can have really great benefit from it. One last step, which is also mentioned in the proposal, is to abolish the ceiling on the tax account. It may seem a little strange to many Danes out there when they know that you are in a crisis situation. But there are some companies out there who are actually open and have a really positive liquidity and have a lot of money on the coffin floor, where they will then pay negative interest rates because we postpone many of these deadlines for when to pay VAT and A tax and other things. They'll get a negative interest rate in the bank. This is countered by raising it to 100 billion. kr., which is de facto a lifting of the ceiling, i.e. that people can then deposit the money into what is called the tax account and thereby avoid obtaining a negative interest rate in the bank. I think that is quite reasonable, even though it may sound a little strange, I think, in the ears of many in a time of crisis, namely that there are many who have problems with having too much money. However, there are some companies that may have that challenge. So it is fine that we also remedy it. However, the Danish People's Party supports this bill, but, as I said, it has a few questions in committee just to get all these things in.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101932	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423101941	Thank you, President. I do not have much more to add to the excellent speech by my colleagues; it has been a thorough examination. However, I would like to add just the extra that I find interesting in this context to this proposal, which we in the Radical Left naturally support very strongly, and that is that all these initiatives and all these ideas we have on how we can hold our hands on Denmark's economy in the tax field during this time, can only be done if, at the same time, we constantly check it with the Danish Tax Authority and with the good employees we have sitting in there: Can it really be administratively possible to borrow so much money? And how and how is this supposed to be technically the case with IT systems, with hours, with manpower, etc.?? There I think it is worth noticing what has actually been possible in this period and what is now added to the pile. In fact, this means that we are in the process of restoring the administration of the tax administration. I think that, in such a moment of reflection, we can take a step back and look at that. That is, in fact, the whole basis for all these things to be done at all. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102058	Thank you so much. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102107	Thank you. It is an unfortunate situation that we are in right now with the corona virus, but I am delighted that we, as Parliament, can come together to alleviate some of the problems we face. The draft law here will provide companies with additional liquidity by paying already paid VAT and payroll tax as interest-free loans. We are also abolishing the tax account ceiling for a temporary period, we are postponing payment deadlines for payroll tax, and the payment of tax credits for 2019 is advancing from November to June 2020. I am pleased that the draft law here helps small and medium-sized enterprises. They need a hand in this time, and it is important that the loans are interest-free. It's safe. We have a long day in the Chamber before us, so I have nothing more to add. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102154	Thank you so much. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102205	The Enhedslisten is, of course, part of the agreement with the other parties of the Folketing, and we are pleased with the agreement that has been made, and we therefore of course support this bill, in which we particularly help small and medium-sized enterprises by providing them with more liquidity through a number of temporary reliefs and loan options. As a whole, we think that the balance in the legislative proposal is fine between securing something now and here that actually works and, on the other hand, taking care of the money in our treasury. The only comment that Enhedslisten will make is that it is aimed not only at this bill, but more at the general approach that has been taken in the context of the Corona crisis in the field of taxation that we should consider whether there will be a need for additional resources for control. It is going very fast at the moment, but we also know that there are crooks out there who, with great creativity, will undoubtedly try to exploit the aid schemes to cheat the treasury. This is something that Enhedslisten has very much attention to, and we are pleased that the bill has made a number of boundaries, so that companies that are supposed to be in some kind of risk group in connection with their disorder in their business • it may be companies that are under bankruptcy, reconstruction, winding-up or liquidation • are exempted from being able to have these favourable opportunities. We have also noted that if there has been a change of ownership at the very latest in any company, they can also be exempted from the fact that this law applies to them. So Enhedslisten will focus on following up on whether the ongoing control of this new law is satisfactory so that it will not become a new tax scandal. But Enhedslisten can support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102353	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I do not see any representatives of the Conservative People's Party, and I do not assume that others have authority to speak on their behalf. So we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102409	Thank you, and I will be brief: New citizens can support the proposal. We would also like to call on the government to preserve and perhaps expand and control it well, so that the tax dollars that come out here will also be returned, and there will be no fraudsters and fuckers who empty the box, but that it will actually help the very, very many good self-employed people out there, whom we would like to help with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102440	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen. There is room for the Conservative rapporteur to have an opportunity now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102452	Thank you for that, President. I just wanted to say that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has been prevented from being here today, but the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102504	Thank you very much. It was brief and clear. I would like to welcome Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423102511	Thank you. We are here with a bill that all the parties in the Folketing have agreed to implement, because it is a positive proposal that helps Danish companies with money here at a time when the economy is in crisis as a result of the corona epidemic we have and the decommissioning of the Danish society we have. We also support the bill for that reason. However, I would say that the government has chosen a course that makes it extra hard for Danish society to go through the corona epidemic. The shut-down is extra hard. Every time decisions are made where you can show confidence in the Danes' judgment and behaviour, the government chooses the strategy that is the result of the least confidence in the Danes' sense and behaviour. It is the case that the Danish society has actually succeeded quite well in preventing the spread of the coronavirus. It has succeeded so well that we have not had this capacity pressure on hospitals. According to the health authorities, the Danes have been very, very good at keeping their hands off, washing hands, not to visit the elderly, and the elderly have been good at isolating themselves, and if one could have confidence that it would continue this way, one would also be able to raise some of the restrictions that exist in Danish society. But the government doesn't have that trust. The government leans on a dubious opinion poll, which has been made by Epinion, where a very small percentage of Danes suggest that with all the uncertainties that are • that today they are a little less cautious than they were 3 weeks ago. It is like the government's background for maintaining a rather tight shut-down of Danish society: a lack of confidence that the Danes can find a way of doing what they are already doing today. It hits the Danish economy extra hard, and it increases the need for us to adopt this bill. Something else that the government is doing, and which increases the need for this law, is that the government is creating maximum uncertainty about when we will return to more normal conditions. The Prime Minister has said that we may never get a society again as we knew before the corona epidemic came to a point of view she did not want to deepen and which is very questionable and difficult to understand. Nevertheless, she has said so. The government has created maximum uncertainty about what it takes to re-open the Danish economy. It is suggested, but we are not told that we cannot re-open until an effective vaccine against coronavirus has been developed. It may take a year and a half, and we do not even know whether it is possible to make an effective vaccine against the corona virus. That is why all business actors, consumers, homeowners etc. in the maximum uncertainty that, if they follow the government's views and the government's statements on this, then there is the possibility, as the Prime Minister has also said, that we will never come back to normal conditions, even for the Danish economy, or that it can at least have very, very long prospects. The government could, of course, create greater security about this, as governments in other countries have done, by saying what the prerequisites are for the government to be able to recommend a greater opening up of Danish society. But the government doesn't want that. The government consistently answers the question, last Tuesday in the Prime Minister's Question Time with the party leaders, where the Prime Minister would simply not answer when and what the plan is on the part of the government in relation to the opening up of Danish society, and what the prerequisites are for that to happen. So because the government always chooses the maximum shutdown, because the government has created maximum uncertainty about when we have to open again, there is also maximum uncertainty for the Danish economy, and therefore it is all the more important that we keep our hands under the economy with this bill that the Liberal Alliance is voting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103009	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. No more rapporteurs would like to speak, so the trip has come to the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103022	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the debate and the clear support for this bill. I would like to start by signing to the parties of the Danish Parliament to support once again what everyone agrees is an extraordinary situation and which, of course, means that we should also be able to deal with the necessary initiatives after an extraordinary emergency process, as this is also an expression of. We shall do our best to be able to answer the questions raised in this Chamber in committee. Of course, we'll make sure of that. In order to hold hands under Danish jobs and Danish employees, the government and the majority who have been on the platform here today have implemented a number of significant aid packages. Among other things: We have added a total of 165 billion to companies. kr. in additional liquidity by postponing the payment of tax and VAT. The outbreak of the terrible corona virus puts Danish economy under extraordinary pressure, which the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, is constantly working hard to mitigate. And now the government and the majority have agreed on further initiatives that increase the liquidity of companies by as much as 35 billion. kr. extra. The aim of this proposal is, as I have said, to provide companies with additional liquidity by paying already paid VAT and payroll tax as interest-free loans. At the same time, as has also been mentioned, the tax account ceiling will be abolished for a temporary period until 1 April 2021. In addition, payment deadlines for payroll tax are proposed to be postponed, and the payment of tax credits for the income year 2019 is proposed to be brought forward from November to June this year, i.e. by 2020. This is a major cash injection for companies. At the same time, it is also the first time that loans from the State have been granted on the basis of VAT and salary declarations. In concrete terms, the Government proposes that small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to borrow interest free an amount equivalent to the VAT indicated in March. At the same time, the loan scheme must also include companies that pay the wage-sum tax according to the so-called method 4 and which must be able to obtain an amount corresponding to the declaration of the wage-sum tax for the first quarter of 2020 and a quarter of the wage-sum tax for the profits they had for the income year 2019. The loan is to be repaid on 1 April 2021. I would like to stress that this is, of course, a very large scheme with the others, but we have tried to create as simple a loan model as possible to ensure that the business community can quickly gain access to this hand-out, while at the same time trying to reduce the state's losses on the scheme. There are therefore certain undertakings which are excluded from the scheme, for example: because they have not submitted the information they are required to provide or because they have previously been convicted of a breach of tax law or are in bankruptcy proceedings. First of all, as I have said, the proposed loan scheme provides a total of 35 billion. kr. available to business for up to 11 months. You can, for example. take a medium-sized enterprise with a turnover of 30 million. kr., which paid up 1 million six weeks ago. kr. VAT for the fourth quarter of 2019. This company will thus be able to obtain an interest-free loan of 1 million. kr. paid out and thereby strengthen the cash flow accordingly up to approx. 11 months. Secondly, it is proposed to extend the payment deadline for companies paying payroll fees in accordance with method 4, for the second and third quarters. This applies, for example, to physiotherapists, ergotherapists, dentists and also taxi drivers and others of similar magnitude. This means that a total of some 275 million will be made available. kr. extra available for 6 weeks concerning the second quarter and approx. 275 million kr. for four weeks relating to the third quarter. An example of this could be a small physiotherapist company with e.g. four employees with a total salary of 3 million. kr. a year, which calculates about 30,000 kroner. In terms of payroll tax, i.e. in the quarter. This proposal will then mean that in relation to the settlement of these 30,000 kroner. So now will be longer payment periods. Thirdly, it is proposed to bring forward the payment of tax credits for the income year 2019 from November of this year to June of this year. The payment of tax credits means that the tax value of the deduction for research and development expenditure incurred by the company is paid out in concrete terms. We pay approx. 1 billion kr. a year in tax credits, so that means that 1 billion can be made available. kr. additionally available to companies as early as June 2020. This will help to strengthen liquidity, especially in the smaller growth companies investing in research and development. Fourthly, it is proposed to abolish the cap on the tax account for a temporary period until 1 April 2021, so that companies should not inadvertently experience costs rising because tax and VAT should not be settled at normal time. At the same time, as has also been suggested, the state's borrowing requirements resulting from the extension of payment deadlines will, of course, also be reduced. Fifthly, it is proposed that I, or the person I authorise to do so, should be able to extend the time-limits laid down in the tax legislation, taking into account the disclosure deadlines laid down in Articles 10 to 13 of the Tax Act, when it is considered impossible or disproportionate, as it is stated, for groups of taxpayers to meet these deadlines. The proposal should be seen in the light of the fact that virtually all groups of taxpayers for the 2019 income year have been granted an extension of the information deadline, previously referred to as the tax return deadline, until 1 September 2020. The reason for this extension of the information deadline is that there is currently a great deal of pressure on the auditors, such as: helping many companies with applications for aid packages, and therefore there are challenges in getting the requested assistance in time to meet the disclosure deadlines set out in the Tax Control Act. The proposal complements the extension of the time limits for disclosure, because in certain places tax legislation contains time limits which are set taking into account the deadlines for disclosure laid down in the Tax Control Act, which should therefore also be extended. Once again, thank you for your support for the proposal, which is, of course, the implementation of the agreement we made this weekend. Thank you for being ready to come together again in such an important situation for Denmark. I am pleased to hear that we are also prepared to clarify quickly in the committee's proceedings which will be held in the Folketing after this meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103851	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103854	After all, this bill is a necessity as a result of the corona epidemic and the strategy chosen here by the government and the Folketing, but it may also be necessary to do so over and over again if this is to last for a very long time. There I would like to ask the tax minister, just as I asked the Social Democrat tax rapporteur: Has the Prime Minister communicated to the tax minister how long this closure of large parts of Danish industry will last? Has the prime minister told the tax minister whether it should last until an effective vaccine against the corona virus has been found?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103940	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423103945	So the tax minister doesn't know as much about what the government's strategy is in this area as the rest of the population knows about it? Does the Minister of Taxation think that it is reassuring for the economic policy pursued in this country that the tax minister has not been informed whether many Danish companies should be shut down for a year or one and a half or even more until a vaccine against the corona virus has been invented?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104019	Now Mr. Ole Birk Olesen some conclusions which cannot be deduced from the first answer I gave. Denmark is in an exceptionally serious situation and I think I have to say that I am extremely pleased that, despite this kind of debate and other things, we are able to gather together to make aid packages on the basis of several different recordings around, in close dialogue with employees, close dialogue with business and close dialogue with the parliamentary parties on a scale that is completely, completely unseen when you look at what else we are working on in this Things. An amount of 400 billion. kr. We're getting closer in relief packages. We're entering unknown land. The situation is extremely serious both for Danish society, for Europe and for the world as a result of this, and the prerequisite for us to get through this is that we stick together, that we lean on the health authorities and that together we try to find a solution to the serious situation. Right now there are discussions going on a little further down the Walking Hall behind this door that I'm looking at now. I think that the Liberal Alliance should also be involved in these, and I am quite sure that we can easily find viable solutions to the serious situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104137	Thank you, Minister. And even if you answer the first question very briefly, you do not save time. But thank you for the effort. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104201	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104226	Thank you for the floor. The bill, which we are considering first today, follows up on Act No. 328 on an amendment to the Su Act, which was adopted on 31 March by a unanimous Parliament, providing for extended possibilities for student loans and final loans and an increase in the amount of the exemption. The law came in the wake of the historic political agreement between the government and all parties of the Folketing on 19 March, which contained a number of initiatives to mitigate the consequences of the corona epidemic in Denmark, including the consequences for Danish economy, Danish jobs and Danish companies. After all, students at our educational institutions are a group that is indirectly affected by the crisis in which Denmark is in the middle of it. The wider scope for student loans and final loans, as well as the increase in the free amount, is a helping hand to help them overcome the crisis well. Many of our students complement their su with income from a study job in order to make the economy run around. After all, many students collect their income from jobs in industries hard hit by the partial shutdown of Denmark, and this makes students one of the many vulnerable groups in this time. Many are in loose employment as hourly paid, and when turnover in the company falls, they will be among the first to lose the job. There is therefore every reason why the Danish Parliament should do what we can to keep its hands on the students' finances. With the bill we are discussing today, we are expanding the group of students who are given a helping hand, so that it also includes students who are no longer recipients of su or final loans. The draft law which we are now considering proposes that we extend the possibility of making final loans, and the draft law provides financial assistance to students who, as a result of the consequences of the covid-19, have reduced income and who are unable to obtain either su or final loans for an ongoing education because they have already used up their su-clips or final loan rates. The draft law proposes that these students be given the opportunity to take up to a further 3 months' final loan. After all, we want to keep our hands under and create financial security for all students, including those who are at extra risk during this period, because they base their financial room for manoeuvre solely on the income from their study jobs. The bill ensures the financial situation of students. This combined with yesterday's statement by the Minister for Education and Research on an extension of the period with the possibility of extra su loans, means that students' income should be quiet for the time being. Social democracy supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104507	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423104522	With this bill, as my Socialist colleague mentioned, we are following up on the draft law, L 144, which was adopted here by a unanimous Parliament on 31 March, and which was part of the implementation of the big, first covid-19 aid package. With L 144 we gave extended loan opportunities to a group of students, and we also had the free limit removed for another group of students. It has been found that there is a further missing group, namely those which do not have more final loan rates and those which have used all their su-clips but are not yet eligible for final loan. That group will be completely out of income if they lose their jobs, and many have certainly already lost their jobs because of the corona crisis. In the extreme, this could mean that the group of students might resign in order to be eligible for another form of public support • it is in every way inappropriate. That is why we in the Left fully support the bill, which helps to provide an extra loan opportunity, and in this way we help to hold hands under a small group of students. We think that's good. In concrete terms, it is proposed that students be given the opportunity to draw up final loans for up to a further three months. The three months may be paid in advance of the period during which the student is normally entitled to a final loan. In the Left we have emphasized from day one that we are ready to hold hands under Danish society. After all, it took a little time to convince the government that it was necessary to improve the aid packages, but fortunately an agreement was reached over the last weekend. And, of course, we are still ready if there is any need to further improve the aid packages. In the field of education and research, I think we still lack answers to a number of important questions, at least for the Left. I hear from a great many concerned students in their studies that they are afraid of a lack of progress, the risk of a period of study, to mention just one example. We cannot, of course, answer that today, but I am just mentioning it to emphasise that we are ready to look, when the time comes, at what we can do to ensure that no student is put at a disadvantage due to the corona crisis. I also hear a great many different interpretations of the Minister's announcement regarding the reopening of the laboratories. I think that we also need clarification, that is to say, what is actually the case. No one should be in any doubt that, of course, we know very well that this is an uncertain time we are living in. Like all other people in Denmark, students are of course also concerned. They are concerned about their finances, they are concerned about their future exams, their future tasks, their future tests, their possible future stay abroad, which they may have the prospect of being scrapped. Yes, there are many things that worry a great many students, and that is a concern that I can really understand, and that is why I also believe that we owe it to the students to create as much security as possible about what the future can bring. It's in that light that this bill is to be seen. In the Left, we are ready to look at how we can return to the Denmark we know from before decommissioning in a healthy way. This also applies, of course, to the whole education sector, but unfortunately we do not have a clear road map for reopening by the government, including in the field of education. But I hope that we can get such a road map from the government as soon as possible; I think the education sector, the students, but also the institutions, deserves that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105020	Thank you very much, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. There are no brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105035	Thank you. This bill is, of course, clearly in line with the draft law we had a few weeks ago, which adjusted the possibilities of obtaining loans for students in su. At that time, we also knew that there were groups that were not covered by the legislation we were making, but we implemented that law with a clear assurance that we would return when we had control of what it was for some groups that needed further help. That is why we are here today to secure loans for students who have no more su and no more final loans, so they actually have an opportunity to stay in their studies. What is at the heart of the Danish People's Party is that we have a framework and some support that allows students to get through this well and, as the previous rapporteur also said, there are a lot of things that we must try to ensure. There are a lot of concerns out there that we must of course do what we can to get calmed down, both in relation to what kind of demands you can be made as a student, and how you as a student get through these courses with internships and with the exams and with everything else that is uncertain about. And that's why I'm gonna take this as an expression that we're gonna solve this little stick today, but that we're gonna continuously tackle what comes of challenges and what's going to be clear about, so we can get clear messages out, and so we can tell the students that they can be sure that they can complete their education as soon as possible in the situation we're in. The Danish People's Party supports what we have before us in relation to the draft law we have before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105218	You're welcome, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105236	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, our education rapporteur does not have the opportunity to be in the Chamber, so I will give a brief message on her behalf. With this bill, we can give an extra opportunity to students who have no more su-clips but who are also not entitled to final loans. This allows for final loans to a group of students who are otherwise at particularly high risk of being completely out of income due to the current situation with corona. That is why the draft law is a good move and, of course, the Radicals are also available to discuss any further gaps that may exist, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105317	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Astrid Carøe of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105333	Thank you. Already when we made the first change to the Su Act in connection with the corona crisis, we in the SF would also like to have these students with us who have no more su and can not receive final loans, so we are really happy to come with that now. We are very pleased that with the new change we can take care of even more students who, like many other Danes, are under financial pressure because of the corona crisis. Of course, we support the proposal. Then I think I would just like to stress that it is important that we continue to help the students so that we avoid that this too many have too much financial consequences • that you cannot pay rent or get food on the table. That is why I am very pleased that yesterday the Minister extended the scheme to include May and June, and in the SF we would like to see it extended further if the lockdown continues. We can see that it's really important for students to get this loan; there are a lot of people who have taken it, but I would say that I also worry that so many students are going to have to go into debt to get through this crisis. So it's not only positive that there's a lot of people using this scheme. It is going to put a lot of students in a new situation after their studies where they have to pay back more debt than they had expected. But, of course, when we are in favour of extending the scheme, it is because the alternative is worse. The alternative is that you can't pay rent or that you can't get food on the table, and that's why we have to help the students, give them one less uncertainty in this very uncertain time and help them financially with this loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105507	Thank you very much, and warmly welcome to Mrs Mai Villadsen from Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105514	Thank you. I too am very happy to stand here on the platform today, not just because it is a nice day and the sun shines outside, but because in a very short time we have actually made some really good changes in the possibilities of su-loans for students. Not only have the possibilities been extended yesterday by the Minister for May and June, but with this amendment we are also extending the possibilities so that more people can take the loan, and I am extremely pleased about that, especially given that it is just a few weeks ago that I stood on this platform and advocated that this particular group should be included. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister for listening and for having broken the administrative barriers that seemed to be at the start in order to be able to implement this, because it is really important. This is very crucial for students, and I actually think the rapporteur on the Left said it very clearly when she said from the platform that, in the end, this could mean that some people might drop out, because if you can't pay the bills because you don't have that student job anymore, you might have to drop out for help in other ways, and that is unsustainable. That's why I'm really glad we made this change, also considering that it's a small group; the ministry estimates that it's about 800 students, but it's also some that we need to keep an eye on. The proposal is very good. I think it's nice to see that in a whole Parliament we can make such good changes in a short time. I hope that even more can be achieved; there are financial challenges in the future for students, for example. PhD students, and I hope that we can see if we can make some changes there. Then, of course, I also hope that the uncertainty experienced out there as a result of corona, and it is both practical and personal uncertainty among students that everything from lack of opportunities to borrow books to solitude by sitting in a dorm room all alone is something we can address in one way or another, so that everyone gets out of this in the best possible way. So I would like to say that in the Enhedslisten, we warmly support this bill and are very happy about it, and I welcome the alternative and say that the same applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105756	Thank you for that and warmly welcome to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105802	This proposal, L 171, is, after all, the result of the previous treatment we had, as has also been mentioned by colleagues before here on the chair, about extra su-clips for students because of corona and the risk of loss of their student job etc. In connection with the treatment, there was a sudden demand for financial support for students who are neither eligible nor in paid internships in March and April and who may also lose their study jobs as a result of the consequences of the covid-19. The day before yesterday, a mother of three wrote to me that she really hoped that we would vote in favour of this proposal. She was out of su. You can imagine that if she has been on maternity leave three times along the way. She was about to have a summer job in LEGO this summer, but she couldn't look forward to it. That's where she had to save some money. She lives pretty far away from being able to try to find an alternative job. So it's just that kind of person that it's important for us to be able to keep our hands under by allowing for extra loans. The cost of this is roughly $400,000. Because it may be 800 people. But the greater cost will be if they completely fell out of the education system and did not complete their education. We therefore very much welcome this proposal and welcome the fact that the Minister also made an effort to try to find a solution for this group which was standing and was suddenly quite exposed. That is why we are pleased that we can adopt the proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105953	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, and welcome to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423105959	Thank you. New citizens have already promised to support this proposal. In March Parliament, with the votes of the New Citizens' Party, adopted an amendment to the Su-law on increased loan possibilities and increased free amounts as a result of the Corona crisis. The measure on increased loan opportunities includes students who, in March and April, were eligible for a grant or final loan, as well as students who are in paid internship. The scheme has just been extended to cover May and June. This change did not, however, cover students who, in their current education, have been covered by the su system but who are neither su- entitled nor in paid internship during the period. The change we are dealing with now seeks to remedy the situation of these students by providing an opportunity to apply for additional final loan rates during a limited period of 2020. New citizens support helping these students and can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110058	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, and welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110107	Thank you for the floor. The draft law is a logical consequence of the recent amendment of the Su Act in connection with the covid-19 epidemic recently adopted by a unanimous Parliament. Covid-19 ties the Folketing together, just like the carpet here binds the room together. Education is extremely important. First of all, it is important for the individual who is expanding his or her horizons and opportunities for participation in society, but it is also important for our society as a whole. That is why the draft law makes sense, and that is why we support it in LA. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110157	You're welcome. Just as the Folketing consists of many individual parts, so the new carpet also consists of many small individual parts, which can be continuously replaced when worn out. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110222	I do not know whether this should be seen as a threat on the part of the President, or whether it is just a friendly reminder to all of us that the people's rule exists and that at some point the rest of us are perishing. Maybe it's a very healthy reminder. At least it's a nice carpet. I should like to start by thanking you for once again being able to agree with all the parties in the Danish Parliament on an economic aid to students, and this time a group of students who, as has also been mentioned, are one of the smaller groups, but at the same time one of the groups which is perhaps a little extra squeezed in these months because they do not even have their su to hold their hands under the daily economy and create some foundation for paying the bills for the 1. It is a group of students who, in their current education, have received su but who are in the situation that they have run out and that they are not yet eligible for final loans. Therefore, their only way to be able to support themselves during the course of the studies is to have work beside them. It's just like in the rest of society something you're not mastering right now. Therefore, there is also a group of these students who are at risk of being in a very, very difficult situation. You have not been part of our first hand, and I would like to thank you for the fact that the rapporteurs, as we have heard here today, have also been pressured to include this group. I think we can be glad now has succeeded. With this bill, this particular group of students will be able to take out final loans for up to 3 months in addition to what they are already entitled to under the su-law. At the same time, we are allowing the additional months of final loans to be paid out from May this year, no matter how far the student is in his or her education. As has also been mentioned by several fellow rapporteurs, we have only reported yesterday that, like the other initiatives in society being extended, we are also extending the possibility of extra Su loans. I would, of course, like to add that to this group too, so that we can equate them and give them the same opportunities as what we have agreed together. This gives the bill the full potential, just as we also agree to follow developments together and therefore also to see what is needed all the time, because we need a sense of security about the student situation. It is a politically important task not only to take care of and look at the fact that we have their education, that the exams take place, to the extent that it can be that there are solutions to their internship situation and, of course, that as few people as possible are delayed by this situation, but that we also have a look at their finances. We know that if the economy fills, there is less surplus to focus on, for example, following the education that is so important that they are not delayed in their education. Therefore, it is a very important piece in continuing to ensure that we have students over the entire country that is training, also in this difficult time. I am pleased that we have once again agreed to keep our hands on students in very broad political agreement here in the Folketing. Thank you, everyone, for that and for taking responsibility. I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110635	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110713	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Paulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110725	Thank you. The objective of L 172 is to take account of the exceptional situation we are in as a result of corona. A number of citizens and businesses are at risk of getting caught up and not being able to comply with statutory deadlines and meet conditions that may be crucial to their economy, including the possibility of receiving aid. This concerns, among other things: on citizens who will not be able to connect their household wind turbines by the applicable deadline, and then these are biogas projects where it will potentially not be possible to apply for aid before 1 May, which is the current deadline. The draft law therefore allows for a general postponement of statutory time limits and authorises the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to exceptionally derogate from statutory time limits. It is, of course, a pity to have to make urgent legislation and to have to change legal deadlines, but in the exceptional situation we are in now, we in the Social Democrats believe that we must do what we can to show consideration for citizens and business, and therefore, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110831	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we turn to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423110840	Thank you for the floor. After all, the Minister has today asked for this to be dealt with as urgent legislation, and the Left would like to be involved in this, otherwise citizens and businesses could get into a mess. We have just such a small comment to make. Perhaps you could have predicted that this would be a challenge. Having said that, however, we think it is sensible to postpone the deadline. And what is at stake is that with the deadline, it has been difficult to hold hearings etc., and that is why we recognise the need to postpone the deadlines. It is the case that we have been in contact with some of the trade organisations, and they are a little nervous that the procedure might go a little slowly in that we are now postponing the deadlines. There are things that have been put into process and where you are ready to have your application evaluated. It is important that you get your things approved quickly because it is necessary to obtain loans, etc. that you have a letter of commitment. There we have a quick answer, and we are satisfied with that, and we thank you for that. This project is about both biogas plants and household wind turbines. There may also be other powers, and that is where we hope to be involved if the Minister wants to use his wide powers in this context. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111004	Thank you for that, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. There are no brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111017	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Minister for bringing forward this bill which, of course, solves a number of practical problems that have arisen here as a result of the situation we find ourselves in and, above all, the private sector. We must now be careful to hand over too many powers to active ministers, but in view of the nature of the minister and probably the ability to keep in the dark, we dare to hand over the right to change these deadlines. It is quite obvious that there is a need to have the cases dealt with quickly, which is why I also have a small prayer to the Minister or perhaps, if someone is out there from the Danish Energy Agency who is watching, to the Danish Energy Agency: It is not enough for us to allow the Minister to move on the deadlines and thus have things handled; it is also quite crucial that the Danish Energy Agency treats these applications accordingly effectively and quickly. Like sir. Carsten Kissmeyer has also talked to people out in reality, and I understand that there are quite a lot of the projects that are in the start-up phase that can only get the residual funding in place once they have got the final commitment from the Danish Energy Agency to be able to continue. So in addition to the fact that the Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal here, I just want to say that we have a prayer and an expectation that we also work quickly in the Danish Energy Agency on these matters. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111149	You're welcome. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Ruben Kid from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111200	Thank you very much. After all, we are dealing with an urgent legislative proposal to help a number of citizens and businesses out of a pinch that they might otherwise get into because of the corona crisis. Specifically, it is a question of authorising the Minister to grant derogations for the deadline of 1 May and to be expected until 1 July 2020. Furthermore, the deadline for VE organisers to hold briefings for citizens is postponed, but I note that these citizens' meetings will be held when the ban on the assembly is not in the way again. So, although it may seem regrettable that this draft law needs to be dealt with urgently, the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111244	Thank you very much and the special welcome was because it was the first time that Mr. Ruben Kidde was on the platform. Congratulations. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111300	We must take into account that we are in an extraordinary situation during the covid-19 epidemic. All companies and citizens must, of course, be helped in the best possible way through the crisis, and that is why we also support the fact that citizens and companies in the area of renewable energy, who may be at risk of being in a situation where they cannot meet the conditions or deadlines set for them, and can therefore lose their right to establish renewable energy, for example. household wind turbines or biogas plants are assisted with this special authority of the Minister. It is also important for us to support the appeal that has also been made by the Danish People's Party and the Left that, when the Danish Energy Agency has to deal with cases in relation to commitments and declarations, it is important that this procedure is obviously quick, so that we can ensure that, for example, The biogas build-up is also maintained even during the covid-19 epidemic. It can only be said basically that urgent legislation is not an optimal procedure, but in this case it is the procedure that is needed in order to meet the objectives of the legislative proposal itself. Furthermore, it is also important for the SF that, when such a proposal is made, in which we give extensive authority to the Minister, there is also a sunset clause on the legislative proposal itself. Overall, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111431	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111441	Thank you. It is natural to extend certain deadlines when it is the case that citizens' meetings are not to be held, otherwise they must be held, and when there are projects based on some associations that have poor opportunities to hold general meetings or decision-making meetings at this stage. Against this background, Enhedslisten can support the bill. But we have been a little strained with urgent legislation, and in this case I would say that one might well have guessed some time ago that there would be a problem here. I think that all ministers should make every effort to ensure that we have normal legislative proposals and not such urgent procedures. It also makes working conditions difficult for us ordinary members of parliament. When you go in and see if there's any background material for this bill, you find out that it's not really there, and it's something else that's good to have when you as a private parliament member have to deal with complicated matter. So I would like to appeal for an attempt to avoid these urgent legislations. I note that there is a sunset clause in the bill, and it is pleased that the Enhedslisten is in it. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111554	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111600	Thank you for that, President. L 172 is, after all, an urgent legislative proposal which is simply necessary in order for life to go further in the whole country with the projects we have in the field of energy. And that is why we need to give the Minister the authority here to lay down rules and to take decisions to derogate from deadlines and other conditions, because this is also a question of jobs; it is a question of projects running out there and having problems with the deadlines that we always set for such projects. This is where the Minister must come in and grant dispensations, and we are quite OK with that in the Conservative People's Party. There is a sunset clause for when this of course ends one day and we hopefully soon get normal conditions. So we say yes to L 172.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111658	Thank you. Welcome to sir. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111705	Thank you. This bill empowers the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to lay down specific rules and to make decisions to derogate from deadlines and other conditions imposed on citizens and businesses under two laws: the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy and the Act on Natural Gas Supply. This shall apply where it is considered impossible or excessively difficult for the citizens or undertakings concerned to meet those deadlines or conditions. New citizens can support the idea that, if there is legislation which contains deadlines which cannot be met due to external circumstances, a short extension of the deadlines can be made. New citizens can thus support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111750	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111759	Thank you. We agree with the arguments put forward earlier by other rapporteurs. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111807	Thank you very much. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. He's coming up here. It's also urgent legislation, so it fits in with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111823	Thank you, President. It is true that I am hurrying up here to support urgent legislation. This is an important piece of legislation, because I believe that we can actually risk that there will be energy plants going bankrupt if we do not get this adopted. And I also experience a great deal of gratitude from the industry for this being on the wallpaper, where we make sure these deadlines are moved. So, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111853	Thank you. Then we've come to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423111900	Thank you. Let me also begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments and, of course, first of all thank you for their support for the proposal. I fully understand that many people have expressed a desire for • and everyone certainly wants us to avoid urgent legislation to the extent that it is possible at all. I can also promise that we will make a great deal of effort to ensure that this is also reflected in the work of the Ministry. Whether this could have been avoided in this case, I cannot reject one hundred per cent, but at least I have to say that we have come into a situation now that it has to be urgent legislation. I also sense that there is some understanding that we are in some very difficult times, when a ministry and a board are also under pressure, which means that you may not always be quite as forward-looking about things as you might otherwise have been. We practice that, and we get better every day. So much for understanding there. During the last month it was necessary to take a number of measures to prevent the spread of covid-19. For companies and citizens, it has in many cases made it impossible or very difficult to meet certain deadlines. This also applies to many citizens and companies in the area of renewable energy. It is therefore the Government's opinion that compliance with certain statutory deadlines and conditions in the renewable energy area should not be required in these weeks and months. The situation requires that many citizens and businesses, including small family businesses, concentrate on their survival and the challenges posed by the covid-19 epidemic. The draft law proposes that the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply be authorised to lay down rules derogating from certain deadlines and other conditions imposed on citizens and businesses under a number of schemes in the field of renewable energy. This concerns, among other things: on the possibility of deferring deadlines for applications for aid for biogas and grid connection for household wind turbines that have been granted aid. Compliance with these deadlines is a condition for the project to be supported. It is therefore of great importance for the economy of companies and private citizens to meet the deadline. That is why the deadline is proposed to be postponed. In addition, the deadline is set for the holding of a citizens' meeting for the establishment of wind turbines, where citizens are given information about, among other things: the value loss scheme. Here it is ensured that the citizens' meeting can be held later instead of having to cancel as far as assembly bans or general risk of infection are concerned. At present, the deadlines are proposed to be postponed to 1 July respectively for the application deadline for biogas schemes and 1 October 2020 for the network connection deadline for household wind turbines and for the holding of citizens' meetings. However, there is a possibility of a subsequent general extension of the time limits depending on developments in the situation. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your interest and support for the draft law, and I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112206	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112227	The debate is open. The first to speak is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112313	With L 114, we are addressing the implementation of the political agreement we made in the energy reconciliation circle in the autumn, which will help to ensure greater local and local support for the development of renewable energy. This is a good and necessary agreement, which will help to ensure the future of the green transition, because we cannot escape the fact that the green transition is taking place in the countryside. Windmills are a good example; here a great deal has happened on the development front when we compare the mills that were set up 20-30 years ago with the mills that are coming up today. The mills have become much larger, and the same is the impact they have on a local area. That is why it is important that, with L 114, we take a decisive step in strengthening support for new renewable energy by ensuring better rights for those neighbours and communities who are, as it were, on the front line of the green transition. With the new VE bonus, sales option and the changed value loss scheme, citizens will be stronger, but that is win-win, hopefully it will also mean that there are more projects that can obtain local support and faster processing. The agreement is therefore good both for citizens and for wind turbines, and then the agreement is good for the municipalities that help take responsibility for the green conversion. Here there are some municipalities that lift a larger part of the task than others, and it is only fair that there is an economic gain for the municipalities that lay land for new wind turbines and new solar cells and help ensure that we can get green power out to the whole of Denmark. Hopefully, the green pool will be used to help create good initiatives in the local areas and help create a new value for those citizens who may not just link rural glory value with the prospect of giant mills. In the Social Democratic Party, therefore, we warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112457	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I welcome Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Midjyde and rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112507	Thank you for the floor. Well, it is an agreement that goes back to the previous government, and that is why we are naturally pleased with the agreement. The bill aims to implement the fact that we are making technology-neutral tenders to support solar cells, land wind turbines, coastal offshore wind turbines, as well as wave and hydropower plants. And what is more, we must also implement an agreement that improves the conditions of neighbours to solar installations and wind turbines, and the agreement with the new government was reached in November last year. What is so important in this context is that we provide technology-neutral, and that means that we offer and say: how can we get this renewable energy as cheaply as possible? And 4.2 billion has been set aside. kr. in the period from 2020-2024, and now we are giving the opportunity to actually get it started. Compared with the previous speaker, I would just like to say that the amount of wind turbines in the landscape with the larger wind turbines is actually getting smaller, which is why it is also important that, when we set up the new wind turbines, we also ensure that we have arrangements that make our citizens feel more confident about what is happening. Three new arrangements will be introduced. This means that, as close neighbours of a large renewable energy plant, a tax-free bonus can be obtained in this context. A sales option scheme is also being set up so that those who live between four and six times the mill height from the mills can have an opportunity to sell their house, their housing, to the wind turbine builder, and it is well to note with a system where it is a tolling commission that sets the value of the dwelling so that there should be a guarantee that people are treated properly. And then there will be this green pool mentioned above, which allows municipalities to make green initiatives, preferably near where people are going to experience these renewable energy plants. So we're thinking that this is a good deal and we want to help improve conditions, both in order to establish renewable energy, but also for those who become neighbours to it. So we would very much like to support this proposal and I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112748	You're welcome. Welcome to sir. Morten Messerschmide from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423112757	Thank you, President. It can be difficult to discuss beauty and aesthetics... is a windmill a technological wonder that you just dream of having a view of, or is it a big shrink, which both sounds and visually, is a nuisance and is an impairment in a broad sense? There is probably no such objectively correct answer to that. Nevertheless, it is objectively verifiable that a great many around the country over the years have felt bothered by the growing windmills that have been set up. That is why we in my party, the Danish People's Party, are very happy that in the energy agreement we got a ceiling on how many mills are going to stand on land. On the other hand, we are a little concerned about how it develops. It's like you're good enough to set up new mills, but not quite good enough to get the old ones down. And we can see that there can, like, be a problem here in the future. That is why it is particularly important that we also improve the value-loss schemes and other schemes which enable the people in the country to be affected by the genes of these now quite large mills, either in a proper way, to get away from their homes and to be compensated for it or to be compensated for the damage they suffer. We are pleased with the three new ingredients, which Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer has mentioned and, therefore, I am not going to repeat it. There is no doubt that with the ambitious objective that a majority in the Danish Parliament has set itself in relation to the Climate Act it has not yet been adopted, but we have an agreement on the issue of reducing CO2 emissions by 70%. In 2030, so soon all Danes will be able to feel on their own body that it has a consequence. This applies, of course, both in relation to the economics, where we are still waiting a little for the government, in relation to when we get something about how this is going to be screwed up, but this also applies to the very concrete way in which the country is now arranged on the visual appearance in terms of biogas plants, wind turbines, and what else we have on the VE side. We in the Danish People's Party would like to see a renewed discussion, particularly in relation to the economic side, on top of the period we have been through with corona. I think we're all talking to traders out there who are really tense. Despite the fine aid packages made by a very, very broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, there are a lot of people who fear what is just around the corner. And we fear in my party that it can simply be our retention of this 70-percent requirement that is just going to be the drop that makes the cup flow over and that can make a lot of people turn around; private companies who may have just made it and who can see that they can make it through the crisis here with their skin on their noses; people who know that there is still a job when they have to meet again. Yes, if we stick to this 70-percent requirement, at least in the Danish People's Party we are afraid that it is they that will suffer. That's why I have written to the Minister in my payroll here, when we haven't been able to meet so much physically, and asked him if it might not be an idea for us to reconsider this climate bill and go down to 60%. And I know that the Minister cannot possibly be an unambitious target, because until we made the agreement in December it was also the Minister's own policy. So maybe it was time for us to rethink this whole very ambitious climate law. After all, there is little ambition in just being so ambitious that people have to turn around, shut down their businesses and dismiss their employees. This is certainly not the way we in the Danish People's Party see that we must move forward. But peace be with it for now. I hope the Minister will reply to my letter at some point. Compared to the good arrangements we are making here, so that those affected by the genes from wind turbines and other things can be compensated, we are, of course, one hundred percent on target for it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113252	Thank you. There is a brief comment, I see. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113257	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is talking about reducing climate targets, so I would like to hear how much a temperature rise the rapporteur is ready to accept. Well, if it's only two degrees, it's gonna cause a whole lot of huge problems in itself. For example: We probably lose the polar bear because the poles get ice-free every ten years. We might lose 80%. of the coral reefs. And that's if we get to those two degrees. In view of the fact that the rapporteur is ready to relax the target, how much temperature increases is the rapporteur ready for us to have in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113335	In relation to the polar bears, if you care about it, I would recommend that you try to get the Arctic nations to ban the hunting of polar bears. There are far more polar bears dying as a result of human hunting than they do as a result of climate change. So it might be an ambition for the alternative. In the Danish People's Party we do not have a measure of what the average temperature of the planet should be by the end of this century, because we are minded about it, one might say, a little humble approach to life, that we can probably most regulate for Denmark. So we are looking at how climate policy should look here and hope that in Denmark we can be those who break the nut, so to speak, in finding a renewable energy source that is fossil-free and can then be exported as a good business. And that is what must drive us towards global goals. But it is not Denmark that will decide how the temperature should be in the year 2100.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113432	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113434	No, of course not, but we must all contribute. After all, we cannot demand that the big guys change the big things if we do not want to change the little things ourselves. A 2-degree increase will probably also result in quite large floods around the world, with many climate refugees coming up here, and large droughts again resulting in many climate refugees. Several peoples in low-lying islands will simply disappear at a 2-degree rise. Now that the rapporteur is ready to relax the target, I just want to hear how large temperature increases the Danish People's Party will accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113506	Well, we don't have a formulated position on something we don't have the opportunity to influence. In other words, I do not have a position on the effect of gravity either, because it is simply outside the jurisdiction of the Folketing and therefore also our powers. What we have an opinion on is what Denmark's energy and climate policy should look like. And there I think Denmark will be better at carrying the world in a greener direction if we do so without closing the Danish business community. I do not think that we will play a positive role in the world if the climate policy we are pushing down the private sector makes people go from home to home.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113547	Then it's mr. Ruben Kid, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113549	Thank you. It really surprises me that, at the first reading of this proposal, we are talking about the part called the 70-percent target, because this is really something that we are broadly behind in the energy conciliation circle, so that we have to create these arrangements. But when the rapporteur then says that it may be time to relax, then the Danish People's Party's course puzzles me a little. During the election campaign it was thought that it was an expression of hysteria that there was a 70-percent wish. Then you changed course at the end of last year and suddenly joined in, and now you are so against again and want to relax your ambitions. And that really leads me to ask: What has changed in the Danish People's Party's analysis of the climate challenge as such? Perhaps the rapporteur can explain this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113649	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113650	If I don't remember anything wrong, sir. Ruben Kid also spokesperson on the previous proposals where the tax minister was here, and I believe that the tax minister mentioned the amount of 300 or 400 billion. kr., which the last few months have been spent and with which we had not really budgeted until the corona came to Denmark. And it may well be that there are parties that say: 300 or 400 billion. Oh, my God, we can just find them somewhere else. However, in the Danish People's Party, we are quite concerned that the stress that will of course come to the business world with a very ambitious climate policy should not be the push that makes people go to the edge and have to close their business and send their employees home. So what has happened between December and now is, and I assume that Mr. Ruben Kidde is aware that the whole world and the whole world economy have been sent to count, and I regard it as quite irresponsible if we do not allow it to be included in our deliberations too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113750	Sir. Ruben Kid.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113751	Yes, and there is, of course, the Radical Left's approach that more than ever now is needed to restore the economy, and at the same time, of course, we need to rethink it together with the green one. In other words, there are huge opportunities to boost the economy of our society, in Denmark and throughout the world, by investing in green technologies now here, and we can launch a green restart package with all sorts of initiatives that could also be about increasing and putting turbo on the expansion of renewable energy such as solar cells and wind turbines, which is one of the things we are talking about in the context of technology-neutral supply. So in the end, I wish I could thank you! ) A quick question...
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113842	It's the safest thing to start with the question, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113846	Thank you. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party is considering leaving the conciliation circle on the basis of the 70% question?? I hope not, but I hope that we can be broadly united in solving the challenges of the future, including in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113858	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113859	First of all, in relation to the green electricity production, which the rapporteur mentions, solar panels and wind turbines, I would like to say that I think we will achieve the goal. Well, I don't think we're so far from Denmark on the power side being 100%. green. That's fine. We share that ambition completely. After all, the challenge comes in relation to agriculture and the transport sector and all sorts of other sectors where it will be really, really expensive. And no, we don't threaten to leave the conciliation circle. That would be a gamble, because then we leave it to the Socialists and all those like Mr. Ruben Kidde's party sits close up the distance not so close at the moment, but usually quite close. No, no, we're not threatening to leave, we're threatening to stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113939	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Ruben Kid, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423113952	Thank you very much. Wind turbines and solar cells are incredibly important on the road to reducing CO2 emissions by 70%. in 2030, but they are not always equally popular among neighbors. Therefore, it is a very good idea that this bill significantly improves the conditions for neighbours to new wind turbines and solar installations, and that is why it is also a good idea that at the same time we will provide better opportunities for the municipalities that take responsibility for setting up new wind turbines and solar cells around the Danish country to receive compensation. The bill creates a new sales scheme so that home owners who are close to new energy plants can either sell their accommodation to the company responsible for the project or can choose to stay and then receive an annual cash bonus. At the same time, the bill also guarantees money for the municipalities that land new projects, and the funds come from the companies that set up the wind turbines or solar parks, which is worth noting. The consultation responses from the many actors in the area have largely been positive, and there have also been several constructive initiatives which I look forward to discussing as part of the committee's proceedings. Landwind mills and solar cells are the cheapest form of renewable energy in Denmark, and for Radical Left landwind and solar therefore also play a key role in our approach to ensuring a cost-effective green conversion of the country. That is why we are also looking forward to boosting technology-neutral supply this year, because a strong renewable energy expansion is one of the things that can contribute to a green reboot of Denmark. So in the Radical Left, we have no doubt that the bill will strengthen local support and thus contribute to the realisation of more renewable energy projects in Denmark, and on that basis we can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423114154	Thank you. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423114201	Our common climate target to reduce greenhouse gases by 70%. in 2030, as among others. Danish Industry and the entire business community support around, requires a significant electrification of Denmark, as we see it in SF, and this obviously means that we need good green power. We need more solar cells and wind turbines, including on land. However, there is no doubt that far too many citizens have felt that wind turbines and solar cells in the backyard were probably a bit of a nuisance and that they have not been compensated sufficiently financially for the fact that they were the neighbours. Therefore, citizens and municipalities should be able to feel directly on the wallet that they contribute to the green transition with good green energy, and therefore it is very good that we get to grips with this part of the 2018 energy settlement, which is just starting to address better compensation schemes. The draft law first of all ensures that citizens who are neighbours to, for example, the United Kingdom. windmills, get 5,000 kroner. in bonuses per year. It will be exempt from tax and will not be offset in the benefits which might otherwise be received from the public authorities. If you are a very close neighbour, you can also access the improved value loss scheme with new valuations of the value of the house, and if you are really close, you have the opportunity to use a sales option so that you can sell your property for example. the windmill set-up. At the same time, the developer of renewable energy will in future also have to give money to the municipalities in the form of a green pool, and that money can be useful for urban renewal or for good projects in the local areas where you will have to live next to wind turbines or solar cells. At the same time, the agreement also addresses the abolition of the purchasing right system, which could have been a very good idea from the outset, but which has not proved to serve the purpose behind the idea. Indeed, it has been shown that it is not people who live so close to the RE projects who buy the shares, but that it has, on the contrary, served more as an investment project for people who were not close to the mills, and then it has not fulfilled the idea behind the scheme to a satisfactory extent. So we think it makes sense to abolish it. In conclusion, we in the SF are not sure that these amounts are exactly the right ones, that they are high enough, that they are quite clean, and that is why we are also pleased that there is an evaluation in the scheme and that, on the basis of it, we can see whether we should possibly increase both the RES bonus and the contribution to the municipalities. In addition, the bill contains some other elements of such a more technical nature, which are also fine and reasonable, and overall, the SF naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423114507	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423114516	Thank you. I think it is worth saying, now that the purchasing system is closed with this bill, that the purchasing system was really good at the time when there were smaller windmill projects, where it was possible to ensure that a very large proportion of the local population would own shares in the mills that were set up locally. Then it has to be said that in time these mills have grown and the initiative to set up the mills has changed to the fact that it is large national or large state companies, large energy companies that are looking for wind turbine projects, also outside the area where they belong geographically. We have therefore come into a situation where you do not have the same local foundation as you used to have behind a wind turbine project. When you have also seen that, in relation to advertising about the purchase rights scheme, you have to announce that now people have a right to buy a share in a wind turbine • is not as good at advertising, because you would prefer to have as few as possible as use the purchasing rights scheme, you have to say that we have come into a situation here in 2020 where the purchasing rights scheme should be changed. But I think it is worth saying that it has had an impact on local support for wind turbine projects in Denmark earlier. So what are we replacing it with? Well, it's something that's a little driven by going to get better local support for wind turbines, and I think this tax-free bonus that is now being introduced and as residents it's well to label residents who live close to a windmill, get, is a good arrangement. So it is not the owner of the house, but the resident who gets a tax-free bonus every year. I think this is a good arrangement, it thinks Enhedslisten is a good arrangement. I also think that we have ended up with something on value loss schemes that is very good. There may be many who feel insecure if a wind turbine project is to arise close to their homes, but it has to be said that experience shows that the genes from wind turbines are less than what neighbours had feared. It is therefore very good that we have come up with a scheme in which those who live closest to a wind turbine project can have their house valued before the project is realized, and then have a right to sell their house after the mills have been set up. I think this is a very good solution, which can make it possible for the resident not to have to sell his house before the project is realized, but to have a right to sell his home if one finds that it is too much a nuisance that one has become a neighbour of a windmill. Then we in Enhedslisten are happy that the green pool will be reinstated. We were opposed to its abolition. Now you end up on a scheme where it's the same amount, 88,000 kroner. per megawatt, which goes to the municipality, and the municipalities have acted differently. Some municipalities have been good at using the amounts locally, so that you have been able to gain more from becoming a neighbour to a windmill locally. It has been a new roof to the assembly house, or it has been path systems out into the local area close to where the mill is standing. I would urge the municipalities to use this scheme constructively and to respond to any requests that may be made locally. Then we have the technology-neutral tenders that apply for four years, and it can be said that we are in the opposite direction of ensuring better local support, because it is very difficult to participate in these technology-neutral tenders if you have a wind turbine project or a large solar project that needs a vvm approval. So there we are in something where it is not locally anchored in the same way as it was in the past. There, I think, we have a task to do further work on some things. In Germany, they have a system in which, if there has been such an invitation to tender, one aid price has been fixed in one year, and there is a popular project which is not too large, it can in fact be eligible for the same amount of aid the following year, if you like. It is not a scheme we have had seriously discussed in Denmark yet, but it could actually be a solution to ensure that more local projects, locally funded projects, will return. For we see that the companies that are active in setting up farm wind turbines in Denmark are operating throughout the country. I think it is very good that we get more wind turbines up in Denmark. It is the cheapest electric production available. Farm wind turbines are cheaper than creating a new coal power plant. That is where we are and then we must create good conditions for those windmills to get up. I think we also need to solve some things about solar cells. We will not solve that here; it is the large plants on the ground that we will manage here, but we have yet to come to the conclusion that there will be more solar cells on our roof, that it will be a natural part of a roof renovation that we will have solar cells installed because we will have the same conditions as municipalities and regions. Those were my comments on the bill here supported by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115028	The next speaker is Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115038	Thank you, President. After all, L 114 is an act of the historic energy agreement we made in the summer of 2018. And this includes 4.2 billion. kr. in what we call technology-neutral tenders. It is the case with wind turbines that some think they are excellent because they help solve our energy and climate challenges. There are others who have them close, who think they're horrible, and we're not going to change that with this law, L 114. Because it will continue to be such that there are some who absolutely do not like these wind turbines or solar cells. I come from Lemvig Municipality, which has a record in windmills, and I think I can personally see something that looks like 24 windmills around my house. And I live with it because it's something you see everywhere I live, where I come from. And we are at least helping to pull out the windmills in a quantity which means that if it was folded all over Denmark, we wouldn't have a problem with getting these mills up that we would like to get up. But it is a great challenge that we face, and although we are now adding and creating three new schemes, I have to say that one of them, the bonus, or you can also say a payment for the problems that may be in being close to a windmill of 5,000 kr. tax-free a year, since there is no manor house, even in West Jutland. And I want to say to you that I tried during the negotiations if we couldn't get it any further up, and it was just not possible that we could get any further up. But I would also like to say that there are some who think it is a bit of an insult with 5,000 kroner. to make a windmill stand in the backyard. When we in the Conservatives support this, it is because it was the compromise that we could make, and of course we support it. The second part, which I think it is really good that we bring back, is that we get an amount to the municipalities of 88,000 DKK. per megawatt. This means that the green scheme is being retabled and it has an effect and has had a huge effect in my municipality. For there we have chosen to say that the amounts are going to the local area where the mills are being raised. And it has given some hugely good projects and urban development in rural areas and in villages, which we would not have seen at all if those mills had not come up. So there is understanding for this and there is, we might say, value for money. For those people say: we understand this, here we get a cash settlement in the local environment, and we can use that for something. And with 88,000 kroner. is the amount of money we are talking about with the megawatts that are being raised today. You're up to a million and you're up to a million. kr. to such a local area, and so you get some playground or square or renewal of one thing and the other for, or of assembly houses that need a proper round. So it's really good. And then, of course, we have the sales option system, which is also a very good system and which means that those who are close have the opportunity to sell their property if they do not want to be there. And then there are improvements to the current value loss regime, which I also think is very good. So overall the coinage here is really fine, and the Conservative People's Party supports L 114.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115437	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115448	L 114 contains measures that are both reasonable and reasonable. The new arrangements provided for in the bill ensure a reasonable consideration for neighbours who are affected by the construction of renewable energy installations. And those who want to sell their housing as a consequence of energy projects are also given the opportunity, and that is good. In addition, the tax-free annual bonus for certain neighbours to energy projects is also a fine arrangement. In addition, it seems to be a good arrangement that the draft law proposes that tax authorities should publish their valuations of property value loss so that decisions are transparent. I also think that the abolition of the purchasing right scheme in favour of the RES bonus is sensible based on the analyses underlying the analysis that show that the purchasing right scheme is not working as intended. From a few objections I would like to see the valuation of housing prices for those who wish to sell be ensured to be correct so that citizens can be sure that the value of their property corresponds to what they would get on the market. This could, for example, be by involving local real estate agents, as several private citizens have wanted in the context of the consultation of the bill. However, the draft law also provides the basis for the provision of price increases for electricity produced by VE for 4.2 billion. kr., and it is inedible for New Citizens, so we cannot vote for L 114 as a single package. If the legislative proposal is divided into two, we will be able to vote in favour of the above proposals as compensation for RES installations. However, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115631	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115633	Thank you. This has been, I think, an interesting legal treatment. For all parties, the good arrangements that are in the law have been highlighted for neighbours to energy projects of this kind. And we can support that too. However, there is not really any party before us that praises the draft law that it is a technology-neutral tender. And that is probably an expression of the fact that it was exactly what the Liberal Alliance really got through in this bill: it was the Liberal Alliance, together with the then Minister from the Left, who fought hard for it to be technology-neutral; i.e. whether you produce the current via wind or sun or water or waves, does not mean as much as it is green. And then the ones who get the money are the ones who can supply the most power for the money. So it's technology neutral, and it's a new arrangement compared to this scheme, and it's worth saying on this platform that the Folketing here is taking a much more sensible course than in the past. And I would like to point that out with this bill, despite the fact that the other parties in the parliament do not really care about it, apparently.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115814	Thank you. The last one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115821	Thank you. This proposal is the implementation of the 2018 Energy Agreement, which is also included in the Alternative, so of course we are voting in favour, and we are happy to do so, especially because the bill includes: create local support for the set-up of farm mills. It is in many different ways that have been examined, so I will refrain from going into all that. I just want to, for example. mention it with the value of your house, so that people do not experience value losses on their houses if wind turbines are set up, or the fact that local areas actually get some benefit from the mills in the local infrastructure. It could be a community house, schools, etc.; they get a little benefit from the income that is from the mills • incredibly important in terms of maintaining settlements outside the rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115907	Thank you. The rapporteur's series is over. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423115915	Thank you for that and thank you for the many good contributions from the rapporteurs. Local and municipal support for future renewable energy expansion is an essential element in ensuring Denmark's continued green transition. It is also an essential element if we are to achieve the government's ambitious climate objectives. It is therefore important that the right framework for enlargement exists and it is important that we ensure that the people support it. We need more wind and sun both at sea and on land to reach the goal, but this must be done with the Danes in mind. Therefore, in November 2019, the Energy Reconciliation Group has made a broad agreement on a new RE scheme. This agreement will be implemented with this bill. The agreement provides, firstly, for three new arrangements to ensure the interests of local citizens and neighbours of renewable energy installations as well as the municipalities that are developing with renewable energy. A sales option scheme is set up that allows property owners close to wind turbines or solar parks to sell their homes to landlords. The housing must be sold to set up to the value assessed by the independent tax authorities. A RE bonus scheme is established where the close neighbours of renewable energy projects receive an annual cash tax-free bonus. The amount of the bonus depends on the production of the project, but for neighbours to an average wind turbine project it is approximately DKK 5,000. annual. In addition, the bill obliges developers to pay 88,000 DKK. per megawatt was set up for the municipality where new plants were set up. The green funds can be widely used for municipal initiatives. It is intended that municipalities should have the opportunity to allocate funds mainly to projects near neighbours to the renewable energy plant as well as to green initiatives in the municipality. The draft law also contains improvements to the current value loss regime and abolishes the purchasing right system as it has not worked as intended in recent times. This has also been agreed in the energy conciliation circle. Second, the draft law provides for the possibility of authorisation to organise technology-neutral tenders in 2020-2024, as agreed in the 2018 conciliation agreement. Third, the draft law contains minor amendments to the VE Act and to the law on technical and administrative electricity supply. Changes to the value loss scheme, the termination of the purchase right scheme, the new sales option scheme, the new RE bonus scheme and the new green pool are expected to enter into force on 1 June 2020 so as to benefit as many citizens and municipalities as possible from the new RES schemes. The other parts of the bill will enter into force on 1 July 2020, with the exception of the authorisation to organise technology-neutral invitations to tender, which will be...
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120232	Nor is there any comment on the Minister, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120247	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120313	Thank you. With L 116, we are addressing the implementation of those parts of the 2018 Energy Agreement that concern energy efficiency efforts. With the bill, we say, among other things: Farewell to the old energy saving scheme, which does not function properly as intended. We need to rectify this with wise energy savings efforts. Energy efficiency is and remains essential for a cost-effective green transition, because the cheapest and greenest energy is the one that we do not use. With the bill, we ensure the legal basis for competitive grant pools to replace the energy savings scheme in the period 2021-2024. The pulses should encourage energy efficiency improvements in process energy in industrial and service industries as well as energy consumption in buildings. The grants will be given to those projects which can deliver the greatest energy savings for the money. The draft law also provides for an aid scheme for the distribution of individual heat pumps on subscription for the scraping of oil fuel. There are still too many oil pine in operation in Denmark, and that does our climate no service. At the same time, however, it may be difficult to bear the large investment in a new heat pump for example. the citizens who live outside the collective heat supply and may not have the great value in their housing stock. In the Social Democratic Party we therefore believe that a subscription system offers a very good opportunity for more people to switch to a heat pump without having to stand alone with the investment. It is crucial that we move forward with the phasing-out of fossil fuels in our residential heating while strengthening efforts for energy efficiency improvement. With this bill, we are taking a good step on the way, which is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120458	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120503	Thank you for the floor. This is yet another of the legislative proposals that we have to deal with now, established with the Energy Agreement in 2018. There was broad agreement that the existing arrangements should not be extended after 2021, and the reason for this is that they have been really, really expensive for both consumers and society, and that their administration has been relatively heavy. What is also behind it is that, compared with many of the things that have been done in connection with the schemes, there has been a deadweight understanding in the sense that a great many of the investments would actually have been carried out also without subsidies. What we think is good is that the two new schemes that are coming are both for savings in the process industry in industry and in the service sector, and that means that we will have the opportunity to switch production and become more competitive in business. At the same time, it is also an aid scheme to minimise or reduce energy consumption in buildings, and 500 million have been allocated. kr. Annually for the two schemes. That is actually quite a significant amount. We are also very pleased that, in this context, we will have the opportunity to do so with the subscription system to replace, for example. oil pine where there is a little further between the houses and where the collective heat supply does not exist. It provides, as the previous rapporteur said, an opportunity for people with relatively low credit ratings to invest also in an alternative renewable energy source, such as the United Kingdom. a heat pump. So we can warmly support the bill, and it will help to achieve our CO2 emission targets, which at least so far I won't start a new discussion... is 70%. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120700	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120711	Thank you, President. There is no doubt that if we are to succeed in developing energy policy as a large majority in this Parliament wants, we must electrify large parts of the energy supply that is today fossil. Of course, to a large extent, it is about the heat side, where a lot of people still have oil pine and other things that have been investments for many years. But that is also why it is important that we make arrangements so that people can get on with the electrical alternatives such as heat pumps in an economically sound way. We are pleased with the arrangement that we have been able to agree on in the energy conciliation circle and look forward to seeing how, hopefully, payment service providers will spread across large parts of the country and also those parts of the country where the collective heat supply cannot cover. We hope that the reduction in the electricity tax that we have been able to agree on is enough for people to see their heating costs at a level similar to that applied in the past. It's very important to think about people's private households in relation to this whole green transition. There are many billions at stake, but if we are to succeed in this without having yellow vests and everything we see in France, it is extremely important that roll-out takes place in a way that does not burden private economies. That is why we are pleased that when you register your heat pump in BBR today, you automatically write down your electricity tax in relation to the consumption there is. So we can support this and I would almost go so far as to say that we can warmly support it here by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120909	Thank you. Sir. Ruben Kid, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423120918	Thank you. A balanced switch to renewable energy requires energy savings where it is economically sensible. That is why we are many parties behind the energy conciliation which agree that from 2021 to 2024, a new energy saving effort is to be implemented to promote energy efficiency improvements in process energy in industrial and service industries and in the energy consumption of buildings respectively. In addition, there are a number of minor initiatives, such as: a oil pine replacement pool. The bill gives the Minister the power to implement the arrangements in practice, but in the Radical Left we have a clear expectation that the conciliation circle will be involved in the further implementation. So in the coming committee there will be an opportunity to discuss the many consultation answers in more detail. For energy efficiency improvement plays an important role in ensuring a cost-effective green transition, and there is a need for us to decide in good time, before the end of these pools we are adopting now, what energy savings efforts should look like after 2024. With these comments, I can say that we, as an energy conciliation party, naturally warmly support the legislative proposal and we look forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423121044	Thank you. Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423121052	Thank you. We are still facing a climate crisis and there is still a long way to go for the green transition to meet our climate targets. Therefore, it is obviously important that we implement good and contributing actions from the 2018 energy conciliation, and this bill focuses on energy efficiency improvements and the phasing out of oil boiler. It is, of course, the case that the green transition must basically go on several legs. We must both phase out some fossil fuels and produce more renewable energy, but at the same time we must also save on green energy. Analyses from e.g. After all, Ea Energy Analyses shows that there is, in fact, both a reduction in CO2 but also, and in particular, some economic savings, by saving energy, while at the same time transforming it. That is why we must constantly focus on energy efficiency improvements, and in this draft law there are two pools that are concerned with this. It is both in relation to energy improvements in the Danes' homes, but also energy improvements in the companies in the process energy used. The grant pool for energy improvements in the Danes' homes has an important focus, namely that it should be additional or energy-saving measures that did not just go and planned in advance, to which grants are given. It is quite important that we ensure that people are well informed about these opportunities to apply for grants, but also that applications are quickly responded to and that there are several invitations to tender throughout the year, which is also provided for so that there is a short period of time between the application and the grant. Compared to the grant pool for energy improvements in the process energy of companies, it can be used both for energy efficiency improvements in the power part, but also for fossil energy. In fact, within the framework of this bill, up to half of the pool can be targeted at energy savings on fossil energy. This is of particular interest, we believe in the SF, in view of the fact that we are faced with a climate target in which, in particular, we also need to set in where there are some CO2 reductions. But this pool doesn't just do it in relation to the conversion of industry. As far as we are concerned, then, we must also set up pools which provide a direct subsidy for replacing the fossil fuels of natural gas and petroleum coke if we are going to get into the really bad situation with other forms of energy, for example. biogas instead of natural gas. We must also openly acknowledge that this is an extra cost for companies, and we would like to help here by the Danish Parliament. We believe that this will be an important element to address in the climate trade plans. In relation to an important part of the green transition, which is that we get rid of the oil guys and indeed also the natural gas guys, this bill addresses the oil guys in the form of an aid scheme for heat pumps on subscription for the scraping of oil guys, if you live out there, where I also live, and where there can be a little distance between the houses and there is therefore no possibility of going to the district heating network and the gas network. But for us, it cannot stand alone. In fact, we believe that we need to think in even more ways both to borrow for electric heat pumps and to create the possibility for more heat pumps to be available on subscription, and at the same time also in some places where the money is small and where there is no free value in the house, but where there is an oil pine, give a cash grant, so that we bring this transition to the end. In addition, the draft law contains some corrections to the legislation, which will clean up the rules in the area of subsidies. That is, of course, sensible, and overall, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423121448	Thank you. There are no comments. So, it's Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423121457	These energy savings are incredibly important when it comes to achieving the 70% target. CO2 reductions by 2030 and we need to be a carbon-neutral society. In the Enhedslisten we want us to get to it in 2040 or 2045, and the majority of the Danish Parliament believes that it should be in 2050. So we're into something where we have to go far beyond where we are now. What we are going to do today is, after all, the current energy savings effort, which has been scolded a great deal, and there have also been some things going on around hole-wall insulation, and some have been given subsidies to replace their windows, which they would have changed anyway if there had not been a grant. I think it is important to say here today that a new way of granting subsidies is now being created, and it is then for a smaller amount than it has been in the past, and that it is therefore important that the Danes out there also take part in this, even if they do not receive subsidies. I mean, it's not like you have to get subsidies for all good deeds. You can go for a run in the morning or eat healthy without getting paid for it, and you can also make energy savings in your home without getting paid for it. However, it is important that we come up with some solutions here, where we animate that more energy savings are being made and there are a lot of energy savings to be made in industry. With the present system there are a great many companies that have been around to point out that companies could make energy-optimising measures that could earn their way home in just a few years and where there has not been a willingness everywhere to implement it, and there I do not think that this amendment of the law will solve everything. In other words, we have a task afterwards when we are going to make climate action plans, where we are going to discuss how we deal with the heavy industry and how we deal with the energy sector as a whole. We should also remember that there is something called energy savings when we come to the negotiations on climate action plans in those areas. I also think it is important to bear in mind that there are some possibilities out there. We stand among others. That there is a queue of 18.4 billion. kr. for projects managed by the Landsbygningsfonden, which are ready to be implemented and where two thirds of those projects actually have energy saving potential, and that is how it is, regardless of whether there is legislation that ensures some kind of grant for energy saving. We have some municipalities that have now lifted the plant ceiling, but it should be something that continues, so that the municipalities can make more investments in energy-optimising plants and that we give the municipalities the right to set up solar cells without having to set up all sorts of small energy companies, but that they can do so in the same way as they do in regions and states. This bill then also contains a subsidy for subscription heat pumps, and I note that some people think it is too bad to choose a particular design. But I think it is very sympathetic that this model of subscription is supported here. Because we are dealing with the fact that where the oil guys are in Denmark is very much a nice piece in the countryside, where you can quite easily buy a cheap house, but where it can be very difficult to sell a cheap house, especially if you have invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in improving that house. Therefore, a subscription system is a good solution if it is the case that you live in rural surroundings and have an old oil pine that you really want to get rid of, but you cannot get a mortgage financing of it. So it is a natural scheme, and if you as a homeowner do not like that scheme, you are free to finance your own energy solutions. So again: I don't think you should get subsidies for everything. So if someone doesn't want a heat pump on subscription and they have money to invest, then they can do it. I also think there are some unresolved issues in this, because we must also see that with these energy savings there is a balance. Because we are faced with a district heating supply that is becoming more and more sustainable, and how does it harmonize with using the last 20 millimeters of insulation to achieve a zero energy house if it is the case that district heating coming in from the municipal company is based on geothermal and, in other words, renewable energy sources? So we have something where we also have to think that it should have some kind of rental that is linked to the energy solutions we have in the future. So there are some major tasks in these climate action plans, which we need to have the country very soon, and which must make it possible for us to secure these 70-percent CO2 reductions by 2030. There it may be easy to focus on new technical installations, but it is important to remember that energy savings make the task much easier. So, joining this bill and agreeing that we continue to work on energy savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122003	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122008	Thank you. After all, L 116 is a coinage of the energy settlement from the summer of 2018. This has been mentioned by the various rapporteurs. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have supported the funding for the installation of a heat pump. We who live along the coast have a lack of credit rating, so it's nice that we can get a subscription scheme so that we can replace our oil guys who have one. It is a good scheme where there are 20 million. kr. a year to be allocated to heat pumps. Instead of having to invest $70,000 or $100,000. In such a heat pump you can get a subscription scheme for something similar to 20,000 kroner. in one-off payment and 5,000 DKK. a year and then a guaranteed kilowatt price, which is at a very low level. It is a good arrangement, and it will remove many of the guys who today use fossil fuel, namely oil, so that we can get on to electricity energy, which, by virtue of what we are expanding in the wind turbine and solar area, we get plenty of. Otherwise, there will be competition for the 500 million grant pool. kr. annual, of which EUR 300 million; kr. for energy saving in industry, i.e. on process energy and other things. It is a very good scheme, but it is also really, very much money, and hopefully we will have to look at our climate accounting, that we will have energy-efficientised both on buildings, but also on production and process energy. So it backs the Conservative People's Party and says yes to Bill L 116.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122214	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122222	Thank you. New citizens cannot subscribe to a policy that allocates 520 million. kr. in green subsidies. I believe that, as politicians, we must manage citizens' tax dollars more wisely than that. Moreover, the experts basically doubt that green subsidies will have a measurable effect in the end. If you lower the price of one economic activity, it increases on another. New citizens are also critical of the desire to achieve the energy efficiency target in the light of the corona crisis. According to Danish Industry, the energy efficiency improvement target is 32.5%. in 2030 is not binding, and in these serious times it is not now that we need to tie ourselves unnecessarily to planned economic energy objectives. Instead, we could benefit from changing focus. It is not energy consumption itself that is the problem. It is the pollution, however, that you choose to measure the one that arises as part of energy consumption that is problematic. So we should instead focus our efforts on reducing pollution, not energy consumption. Let's deal with what we know for sure. If something is energy efficient and makes sense, then households and businesses will probably have to take care of energy saving themselves. But in New Citizens we also want to help. That is why New Citizens are now proposing that we halve the electricity tax if we are to support the economy. This is one of the proposals we have made here in connection with the Corona crisis. It is a way of supporting the economy without distorting the market to point to specific energy savings, regardless of whether they pollute very or very little. Understandably, in times of crisis, most politicians are caught by enthusiasm. To remove barriers to the market, which are doing their job, may therefore be remote. But let us at least try not to cause unnecessary damage. Subsidies can distort the market for many years to come and can make the green transition more painful and ineffective. That is why New Citizens do not support L 116.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122418	Thank you. The next one is sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122427	Thank you. The bill here translates parts of the energy agreement that was concluded by most of the Danish Parliament's parties back in 2018. It is an energy agreement that we in the Liberal Alliance generally think is good, but there are also elements in the agreement that we would have done differently if it were we who decided completely. We have just discussed a draft law on technology-neutral supply of green power production. We thought that was really good. Now we have come to a legislative proposal which, we believe, is more in the nature of supporting certain people who live in certain places and have little to do with the climate. But that's the way it is in agreements that are positive, and there are less positive things, and you have to say yes or no to the agreement, and we said yes to this agreement. When we really want the green transition in Denmark, what needs to be done is to tackle the basic structures of Danish society. It is not about small grant pools for one and the other behavior. It is about reducing taxes and charges on behaviour that you want, for example. Green electricity consumption, on the other hand, is about increasing taxes on behaviour that you want less of. That means in this case that there are some places in Danish society where deriving CO2 Therefore there should be some CO2 Conversely, it makes no sense that we have a rather high tax on consumption of green electricity in Denmark. That is why the objective must be for all serious parliamentary parties to abolish the electricity tax, because we are heading towards a situation in 2030 where all Danish power produced in Denmark is green. That is why it is pointless for us to continue to have a high tax on the consumption of that electricity. We are voting in favour of the bill because it is part of this agreement and the agreement as a whole we like. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122652	Thank you. The last one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122657	Thank you. This is again a legislative proposal that translates the 2018 Energy Agreement into which the Alternative is included. So, of course, we shall vote in favour, and this time we shall also be happy to do so. The bill supports energy savings in both companies and private homes. One of the elements is about support for heat pumps, and here we actually share the great enthusiasm of the Danish People's Party for the credit institution, unlike the great disagreement we had during the previous debate, where it was on the Danish People's Party, as if we wanted to reduce our 70-percent target to a 60-percent target. In fact, I also saw the contribution of the Left in the previous debate as a moving support for the 70-percent target. If the bourgeois parties have entered into this agreement to reduce CO2 by 2030 in the belief that you can equally quietly reduce the target by sustained pressure, then I just want to say: forget it. The alternative will never agree to that, and I am sure that more of the red-green parties will never agree to that either. So if that's the plan, I'll say forget it. On the other hand, our agreement with DF was very great in terms of enthusiasm for heat pumps. During the previous period we had an environmental rapporteur named Christian Poll, who is still away from our advisors, and it was just before we gave him the middle name Heat pumps because he is and we are so excited about heat pumps. So that's one of the good things in this proposal where we share the enthusiasm with DF. In general, we look forward to voting in favour of the package as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122845	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423122851	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their good and constructive comments on the draft law. The bill is about the future framework for the Danish energy efficiency improvement effort. The draft law has its basis in the 2018 Energy Agreement, where all parties in the then Parliament agreed to shut down the energy savings efforts of the energy companies, also referred to as the energy savings scheme, not because energy efficiency is no longer important, but because there is simply a need for a new and more efficient way of granting aid. That is why, by the end of 2020, we are shutting down the scheme and replacing it with two completely new pools of a total of 2 billion. kr. for the period 2021-2024. Firstly, we are setting up a pool of 300 million. kr. annual targeted savings in process energy in industrial and service industries. The applicants will compete for the grant funds, so that the support is allocated as a starting point to the project which provides the most savings for the pool funds. However, with the legislative proposal, we are also opening up the possibility that, for example, CO2 displacement may constitute a secondary criterion. Secondly, there is a grant pool of 200 million. kr. annually targeted energy savings in buildings in use. From the pool, grants for energy renovation projects in full-year housing can be applied for on the basis of a positive list, so that the scheme is targeted to the best possible extent, which would not have been implemented in the absence of grants. With the new energy savings pools, the goal is to achieve a better, more transparent and efficient energy savings effort in Denmark. Another important part of the green transition in Denmark is that we have to scrap the black oil pine and replace them with heat pumps that run on green power from wind turbines and solar cells. This is particularly true in households outside the collective utility networks, which do not have access to the ever greener district heating. The Energy Agreement therefore provided for 20 million. kr. annual during the period 2021-2024 to support the spread of individual heat pumps by the scraping of oil pine in precisely those areas where there is no access to district heating or natural gas. The conciliation group has agreed that the grant should be given to heat pumps on subscription terms. The impact of both energy saving and oil pine scraping requires a change in the Energy Savings Act, which does not currently provide for subsidies to support energy saving. The draft law also contains a number of other minor amendments. Among other things: It is proposed to allow rules to be laid down as to when the label may lose its validity. be if the label is defective or gives a misleading picture of the energy status of the buildings. In addition, it is proposed to repeal a number of laws which are no longer applied, have no longer set aside appropriations and which are thus deemed to have served their purpose. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the bill with the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123211	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123224	The debate is open. Troel Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123247	Thank you for the floor. Growth in business creates jobs and makes Denmark richer, and if the Danish economy is to continue to grow, also on the other side of this crisis, then we must make a determined effort to create better conditions for private companies. E-commerce has been an area of great growth over the last few years, and we find it positive in the Social Democracy that Danes have access to cross-border trade, but it is also crucial that we ensure that Danish companies can compete on equal terms with foreign companies when it comes to e-commerce. That is why the draft law we are debating today aims to facilitate access to online goods and services for consumers in the European Union. We do this by responding to burdensome VAT obligations and distortions of competition. Today, it is precisely that VAT obligation and distortion of competition put a brake on many of the EU's businesses, and the bill will also result in so-called consumption tax, so that in future the purchase will be taxed in accordance with the rules of the country in which the goods or services are consumed, thus creating a more equal competitive relationship between companies in the European Union. In concrete terms, three measures are proposed in the draft law. Firstly, the applicable VAT exemption of DKK 80 is abolished. for the purchase of low-value goods from non-EU countries, thus eliminating a competitive advantage that companies in non-EU countries have had so far, including electronic platforms also having greater responsibility for the settlement of VAT on goods sold through their platforms and introduced into the EU. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce a low EU common distance selling limit of EUR 10,000. The proposal for a common border means that VAT has to be paid in consumer countries already when a company's sales of electronic services and distance selling of goods total exceed EUR 10,000 throughout the EU. And thirdly, it is proposed to simplify the so-called VAT returns and payment system... one stop shop... so that EU companies will then settle for just one VAT registration in the system rather than registration in all countries, rather than in all the countries to which they sell. Businesses outside the EU will also be able to collect VAT from the consumer in the sale and then declare and pay VAT in the EU via the system. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123537	There is a brief comment. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123541	This is just one question in relation to the revenue of just over 300 million. kr., which the bill will bring to the Treasury. Can the Social Democrat rapporteur tell us what that money is for?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123555	No, I cannot do that for good reasons, but of course I have noticed that there is revenue from the legislative proposal. For me and for the Social Democratic Party, the important thing here has been to eliminate the inequality in competition that Danish companies have been subjected to in connection with this e-commerce in the EU. I guess the fact that there's revenue doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123627	Thank you. Let's move on. There are no more questions right now. Sir. Arne Honoré Østergaard... no, Mrs. Anne Well I have no doubt at all when I look at the person. Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123641	Is it because I just got a haircut? I like it when the tax minister says it's Arne's turn. I'm sure he'll appreciate that. To speak of something quite different: this bill aims to implement a number of EU rules on VAT in relation to e-commerce. This may sound boring at first sight, but it will actually mean that a number of Danish companies will be able to compete on equal terms with foreign companies for the increased e-commerce. Firstly, the new distance selling limit for physical goods will mean that more companies within the EU with sales to Denmark will in future have to settle VAT in Denmark instead of in their home country. As the VAT rate in Denmark is among the highest in the EU, the new distance selling limit will improve the competitive conditions of Danish companies, as in the vast majority of cases companies will have to settle the same VAT rate. Similarly, the abolition of the exemption from VAT on imports of goods with a value of less than EUR 10 for companies outside the EU will eliminate the competitive advantage of VAT which these companies have enjoyed over companies within the EU. From now on, companies outside the EU will always have to pay Danish VAT on distance sales of shipments to consumers in Denmark. This will lead to an improvement in the conditions of competition for Danish companies, which can in turn lead to increased turnover for Danish companies. Secondly, electronic platforms will be given greater responsibility for the settlement of VAT on goods sold through their platforms and introduced into the EU. This is, of course, aimed at the Chinese companies that use platforms such as Wish. The proposal will provide for a more specific VAT treatment. Other elements of the bill concern the extension of the current mini one stop shop to all services and distance selling of goods, digital sales registration systems and proposals to postpone the date of entry into force of the digital logbook. These are all sensible proposals that the Left can support. At the same time, I should like to greet our good friends in the Conservatives and say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123856	Thank you. There are no comments, so that's why it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423123902	This is another collective law, which we often have in the field of taxation, and here there are ten different measures. Both because there are so many and because the two previous rapporteurs have been around most of them, I will not mention them all, but take some of them out and comment on them. The first is about the VAT rules for Internet commerce, where it is the case today that goods under 80 DKK. is exempt from VAT when imported. From now on, that limit will be removed, and that is to give equal competition, and we in the Danish People's Party actually think that this is a good and sensible disposition, because there has been a negative competition for Danish companies, because they pay VAT on goods with a value of less than DKK 80 compared to typically cheap Chinese junk, I would say that flowing across the national border is up to 40,000 packages that come across the border every day and that you have no control over, compared to what can be of unhealthy things in the goods. And you don't necessarily stop doing this, but at least you make sure that competition becomes more equal and that there is better control of it, because you can, after all, find out what it is for some companies that sell it and whether they pay the right tax in Denmark, and we think that is quite reasonable. Another point I want to make is about the distance selling limit for VAT payments in the consumer country. In other words, if a German company sells some goods to a Danish customer via the Internet, there has previously been a rather high limit, where you had to over DKK 280,000 before calculating VAT in Denmark. Now there is a common threshold of EUR 10,000 in all EU countries, and that is something that helps Danish competitiveness because we typically have a high VAT rate. I've also noticed, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that it also helps the Danish Treasury. That's 285 million. kr. of course, we are also interested in finding out what we can do with it. But we also think it is a very good and sensible point in terms of competition to be involved in this. Then there is the extension of what is called the one shop stop model, which is also mentioned, and where we think it is quite reasonable that there should be a handling of this holiday agreement that has been made. And here it is about how to deal with the A tax when paying out from the holiday guarantee scheme, where it is also quite reasonable to get it in place. So we have no objection to that either. The only thing I would like to mention, to which we may perhaps have some questions, is in fact what is actually referred to as a series of minor adjustments. So, there is something about digital sales registration systems that we have been great supporters of in the Danish People's Party, both in terms of giving it as a command to companies that cheat, but also in relation to the fact that we have chosen some industries where there is massive fraud and where they have been told to have it. We are not critical of that at all. But what I am a little critical of is that in future it will be given as a ministerial power, so that the minister can choose which industries should have these digital sales registration systems. I think it should be the Folketing that decides who should be burdened with that burden. After all, the draft law says that if there are particular reasons for extending it, the Minister can choose to do so, but who should assess whether there is a particular reason for doing so? Yes, it is probably the Folketing, and as in this case we have a collective law with ten proposals, and that we have them running, so I see no problem in putting it into one of the many collective laws and putting it up for the Folketing to assess whether there is an extra sector to go on or whether there is an industry that needs to get rid of, so that things can be sorted out. But I think it should be a task for the Folketing and not a power of ministers. And that's kind of the only appeal I have to this bill, so maybe you should take the other one. Then there is again that about the revenue • 285 million. kr. in a lasting effect. I think it might have been an idea for us to agree on, for example. to get them over in connection with the exercise that is coming now and where we shall see if we can push the Danish economy again after the corona crisis. That is not what is required in relation to the long paragraph, but at least you have a revenue here that you could roll out. Perhaps we could agree there that a joint report could be drawn up on what was written about the 285 million. kr. at least could be a start to the exercise that is coming. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is positive about the many good initiatives in this bill, many of which are quite small. However, we have just one comment to make on the issue of digital sales registration systems, where we think it should be a parliamentary task and not a ministerial power. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124317	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124326	Thank you so much. It is an exquisite pleasure to implement these EU rules with this proposal and finally remove the VAT liability limit for goods imported from third countries and not just in Denmark, but throughout the EU. To curb cheap goods, where it is found time and again in samples that VAT is not only cheating but also circumventing EU quality standards, is basically the only border controls advocated by the Radical Left. Now VAT has to be paid on the whole amount, and this, of course, corrects the balance in competition between Danish and foreign net trade. We have in the scant sample checks that have been made on the valuation of the approx. 35,000-40,000 shipments arriving daily in Denmark could see that suppliers have often valued the package for less than 80 DKK. to avoid VAT, even though the content was worth far more than that. So, yes, and again, yes, thank you for the fact that we are now removing the VAT liability limit throughout the European Union. It's about time. In addition, the draft law takes care of the fact that the countries of the European Union have had very different rules on how VAT was charged on goods sold across national borders within the European Union. In Denmark, it has been the case that online shops in other EU countries selling goods to Danish consumers have had to pay Danish VAT if they have surpassed a sales of DKK 280,000. a year. It is by its very nature not easy for companies to find their way around, and it is easy to cheat with. In 2017-2018 167 EU-based Internet companies were investigated in the Danish Tax Authority's sole control of this type of trade so far. The checks showed that 94 of them had had such a turnover in Denmark that they should have been registered for VAT purposes. A total of 82 million bills were paid by the Danish Tax Office. kr. All of this will be considerably easier to find in future, because we are now abolishing the Danish distance selling limit of DKK 280,000. while introducing a common EU border of EUR 10,000. The new EU border means that companies with an annual turnover of more than EUR 10 000 for distance selling of goods and e-commerce services to consumers in other EU countries will have to pay VAT on sales in the country of consumption rather than in the country of establishment. At the same time, suppliers wishing to enter the EU's internal market must be registered for onestopshop, which we also extend to third-country goods and hurrahs for it. This all sounds very good, and we of course warmly support it. However, in October, the Minister of Taxation announced that the Danish part of the IT system to ensure that online shops from third countries can pay VAT when the VAT liability limit is to be removed on 1 January 2021/22 will probably not be ready on time. The Minister has stated in several newspapers that there will be compensation in other ways, such as: in the case of manual processing. Can the Minister say more specifically in what ways the rules will be complied with and also whether the efforts will ensure that from 1 January 2021/22 VAT will be paid on all the thousands of consignments from third countries? We have a common European task in figuring out how to deal with global e-commerce. This proposal is a solid step in the right direction. The next step must be to establish, together with our colleagues in the European Union, rules on how trading platforms such as Amazon, Wish, Alibaba and eBay can be held responsible for ensuring that the goods sold from their shelves comply with EU quality standards. Because the norm now is that they do not, and the platforms wash their hands and renounce responsibility, and that does not hold true. So the next step is to get the EU to take action with the platforms, and in the meantime here in the Folketing we may be able to talk about what we can do nationally to create greater security for Danish consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124716	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. It's sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124724	Thank you. The draft law here contains several elements which have already been discussed. One of the things we are concerned with in SF is to ensure Danish companies fair and equal conditions of competition in the fight for e-commerce. Today, there are a large number of rules that cause problems and make VAT work difficult for the self-employed who are struggling to enter or maintain their position on the e-commerce market, and that is why I am pleased that the draft law here focuses on it. One of the things that really offends me is to see how, for example. Chinese companies have been able to send goods to Denmark with VAT exemption if the goods have a value of less than DKK 80. It boosters a market for plastic gadgets and junk, often produced under miserable working conditions, and of poor quality, being transported halfway around the world to satisfy various needs that we didn't even know we had. The whole chain of unfair competition and unnecessary pollution has been politically supported by the VAT exemption. It is really sad and I am glad that we can now put an end to this proposal. In addition, I am pleased that Danish companies are now becoming equal to other companies by having to pay VAT in the country in which they wish to sell their goods or services at a sale of more than EUR 10,000. It has been a hindrance to Danish companies in the past, since as we know, Danish society has a higher rate of VAT than other countries, and I am therefore pleased that the bill here takes account of this problem. Finally, I welcome the extension of the One Stop Shop system, so that Danish companies only need to register in one place. This facilitates paperwork for a great many companies. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124902	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423124914	Thank you. As our rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund, who cannot be here, I have promised to present the views, and I can say that overall Enhedslisten is satisfied with the legislative element concerning the new VAT rules. Uniform distance selling limits are good, as we can ensure more uniform rules so that there is no speculation about using particularly low VAT rates in some countries. It is also positive to ensure that countries outside the EU can no longer benefit from a competitive advantage over VAT-free imports. It is clear that we are excited about the implementation of the new One Stop Shop project. There are good opportunities in implementation, both in terms of preventing fraud and in terms of making it easier for companies to trade across borders, but everything else is also an overturning of some administrative burdens from business to tax administration. We think it should be monitored that the necessary resources are included. 0,3 million kr. doesn't sound like a lot of money to me. The specifications relating to the digital cash registers are sensible, but we will not miss the opportunity to say loudly once again that Enhedslisten are hot advocates of digital cash registers. Figures from Sweden show that if it is rolled out in all sectors, a billion revenue will be present, and that is also our agenda. We would like to see a wider circle covered by the rules, and we will continue to work for that. The only thing we're a little awkward about is the delay in the log. It says in the comments to the bill that it is therefore proposed to authorise the tax minister to put the initiative into effect when there is a final clarification of which systems are most appropriate to support the digital logbook, but as it is our view that the government here shares the Enhedslisten's wish that this should happen as soon as possible, we expect it to get started immediately, but that is something that we will continue to focus on from the Enhedslisten's side. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125110	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125116	Basically, we are in New Citizens' positive towards this bill, and when we may get approx. 200 million kr. This is where we have to start to reduce taxes or levies. We are happy to offer constructively where we can take action there so that we can have this 200 million. kr. and work well and help the Danish business community more than is actually helped with this bill; so, it would actually have a double effect if this comes into force. In addition, we will ask for the bill to be broken down in relation to what is about digital cash registers. After all, we have dealt with a case in the past in which the attitude of New Citizens was the opposite of that of some others, where we did not think there should be a collective penalty for all but that it should apply to individuals who could not figure out how to behave properly and follow the laws of the country; it should of course have a consequence, but those in the business world who could find out, we did not think there was any reason to impose additional burdens. That is why we are asking for this sign to be broken so that we can also vote in favour of the parts of the bill that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125226	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125235	Thank you. We support the bill, not for the same reasons as the SF, who was here on the platform and argue for them, but for our own reasons. When you listened to SF, you got the impression that it was almost a fundamental idiot, compared to the fact that there had previously been a limit of DKK 80 before you began to impose Danish VAT, i.e. a de minimis limit. So I have to explain, like, why there was that limit. It was there because PostNord, when goods come in from abroad to Denmark, has to start VAT processing it if VAT is to be charged. And this whole system of VAT processing costs. There is a fee in the region of DKK 130, I think, for VAT processing a product, which means that if you buy a product from the large country, which costs up to DKK 80, you have to be charged up to a maximum of DKK 20. in VAT, and for that you have to pay a fee of DKK 130. It seemed a broad majority in the Folketing in the past was completely crazy. I actually believe that Mr. Carl Valentin's predecessor as tax rapporteur in the SF felt it would be crazy to charge a fee of DKK 130. to charge VAT of a maximum of 20 DKK. So that was the background. What has happened in the meantime is that it seems that a technical system has been found to facilitate the collection of VAT in the country of dispatch by the amount of VAT now due, and that we can then avoid this fee from PostNord in Denmark of DKK 130, so that it does not become completely insurmountable to get your thing from China even if it had been made from plastic to Denmark; that is, without having to pay a fee of DKK 130. That is why we can do it now, and that is why we should do it now, because it is right, as other rapporteurs have said, that it is rather strange that, if you are a producer and a seller of a product from a country outside the European Union, you can avoid consumers paying VAT on it, whereas similar producers and sellers of similar products from Denmark or from other EU countries have to pay a VAT amount of it. This is an unequal competition that we should do something about, and we can now, because this solution has been found so that no fee of DKK 130 is payable. to charge a maximum of 20 DKK. VAT. We're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125531	Thank you. It's the tax minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423125535	Thank you. Thank you very much for your clear support for this bill. This is an important legislative proposal, not least for the Danish business community, and I would therefore, of course, like to thank you for receiving the bill, which, in addition to the core of it, is the VAT proposal, as it is most often in the field of taxation, and which I believe Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said it, contains several elements. This is, of course, because it is an important area we are dealing with, but also because it is very extensive. The main element of the proposal is, as I said, the modernisation of VAT rules for e-commerce. In addition, the proposal, which has also been put forward, contains an initiative on the handling of A-tax, etc. in connection with the payment from holiday guarantee schemes and, in addition, a proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of the digital logbook. If we look first at the proposal relating to e-commerce, then there are, as has also been suggested, a number of rules in the area of VAT which make it difficult for Danish companies competing abroad for trade on the Internet. The proposal will mean that Danish companies can now compete on equal terms with foreign companies for the ever-increasing e-commerce, while at the same time remembering that, of course, it will also reduce the level of errors and fraud in this area. After all, competition equality is then proposed by abolishing, firstly, the VAT exemption for the 80 kr referred to here. for the purchase of goods of low value from outside the EU, so that VAT is payable regardless of the value of the goods. Thus, the VAT competitive advantage that companies established outside the EU have so far had in relation to companies operating in the EU will disappear. At the same time, it is proposed that the platforms should be given greater responsibility for the settlement of VAT on goods sold to consumers through their platforms, which are then introduced into the European Union. The proposal also ensures more equal conditions of competition between companies in the EU, as it is proposed to abolish the existing different national distance selling limits for goods in the EU countries. The distance selling limit now allows companies in other EU countries to sell to consumers in other countries with their own VAT rates, and in those countries where VAT is lower than in Denmark, companies have an advantage over Danish companies' sales. From now on, VAT will have to be paid much more in the consumer's country, regardless of where the EU company is established, and for a country such as Denmark, which has a high-end VAT rate, an increase in consumption tax will therefore strengthen the competitiveness of companies. The new VAT rules are also expected to result in less fraud and circumvention for the benefit of both the Treasury and, therefore, also the conditions of competition for the companies playing according to the rules. Since it is also important to ensure that companies have as few administrative burdens as possible, the proposal for the new e-commerce rules also contains a proposal for an extension of the existing VAT returns and payment systems, i.e. one stop shop. Another element of the draft law is a proposal on the handling of A-tax, etc. in the case of payments from holiday guarantee schemes. The proposal has a direct connection with the very broad agreement on a new holiday system, which will work here from September 2020, i.e. this year. Holiday guarantee schemes operate in the same way as the Employees' Guarantee Fund, and the proposal creates clarity and uniformity for guarantee schemes which operate in the same way. Even though there is broad agreement on the introduction of the digital logbook, it is also proposed that the entry into force be postponed until a proper system support has been provided. In order to ensure that the rules can enter into force as soon as possible, speaking of what Enhedslisten also mentioned, and that the system support is then in place, it is proposed that, in this situation, hopefully, it will be authorised to put the initiative into effect. A further element of the draft law must be my last comment, and which may create some recognition, I could hear that from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, and who may also seem a little odd, is that it is proposed to repeal the rules for digital sales registration systems, which were adopted shortly before Christmas, and then put them back here again. I think it is important that I stress that it is neither because I want to waste the parliamentary time nor to divert attention from other things with such an exercise, but that the proposal is made solely for legal reasons and to make paragraphs enter into force in the correct order of numbers. That is what is in the proposal. However, once again, thank you for your broad support for this bill, the core of which is a proposal that gives Danish companies better conditions of competition and thus also better opportunities to compete with companies within the EU and companies outside EU borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130129	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130133	The Minister for Taxation and I had a discussion the other day on whether the coffee tax should be abolished in Denmark. I proposed this, and that is why I cannot understand why we have such a tax. It is not unhealthy to drink coffee, so why is it necessary to have a tax on it? And to that the tax minister replied: Well, that would cost a little over 200 million. kr. to abolish the coffee tax, so we certainly cannot. Now there are almost 300 million. kr. Here, which comes in, and that means that we have suddenly been able to afford to abolish the coffee tax. I would like to know whether the Minister of Taxation will now review his position that we should have a coffee tax in Denmark, now that money has been put in the box to abolish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130221	The answer is no. It can be said that the proposal to abolish the coffee tax, as I remember, costs 255 million. kr. A year ago, Mr President, we could say that we are at the low end of the proposals put forward by Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen played on the track in the same speech, so there is plenty to spend money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130238	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130240	The easier it is to abolish it, and that is what I do not really understand. Why should we have a tax on coffee in Denmark, because it is not unhealthy to drink it? Why is the government insisting that we should have a tax on coffee in Denmark when we get this barely 300 million? kr. I think it would be a good idea for us to abolish the coffee tax. Many Danes have experienced here during the corona crisis that where they usually go to work and get the coffee there as part of a staff good, they now drink unimaginable amounts of coffee at home and thus experience how hard the coffee tax is for their private economy. So what does the tax minister say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130318	It's corona-related action.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130319	It is a hot talk here to abolish the coffee tax. I think there are a lot of people who have had a lot of coffee, and that is quite fair. This is about something else. Back on the serious track: we have just been sitting this weekend and making a huge deal again to extend our aid packages, which have a volume of more than 35 billion. kr. Increased cash flow to businesses. So there's plenty to spend money on these months and years. I think we're going to come back to what, for example, this is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130358	In doing so, we thank the Minister for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130411	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130426	Thank you for the floor, President. The tax rules are often complicated, and even though the tax rules generally exist to keep our welfare societies under control, sometimes tax rules can also be found that do not make sense. In the Social Democratic Party, we attach great importance to the fact that our tax legislation is appropriate and ensures a level playing field, but also that legislation is consistent with developments in society, for example. new products will be placed on the market. This is precisely the kind of problem that the draft law is intended to address today. Specifically, the current chocolate tax law distinguishes between whether or not cocoa drinks contain milk. For example: today you have to pay about 25,97 kroner. in charge of 1 l plant-based cocoa drink, but only 0.22 DKK. in the case of 1 litre of cocoa milk. And that is distorting competition. That is why it is proposed to extend the lax taxation of cocoa and chocolate milk in the chocolate tax law to all ready-made cocoa drinks. The extension also includes other cocoa-containing milk products so that similar cocoa products are also treated in the same way, whether or not the products in question contain milk. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130555	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130558	Thank you. After all, we have dealt with proposals by the Danish People's Party in the Parliamentary Assembly to end the charges that have been imposed here, and this was in fact one of the proposals we mentioned as an example. Then the Social Democrats could not support it because it was said that there was a lack of funding for it. Now all I want to hear is that if the rest of us are going to vote against this proposal, because there is no funding in this proposal, is there? Or can the rapporteur perhaps mention what the financing of this proposal is?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130627	I would like to admit that the Danish People's Party, with the rapporteur, has been at the forefront of arguing for the phasing out of jacked taxes. However, in relation to the question that is being asked: No, the draft law here is not considered to have significant economic consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130654	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130655	because there was a lack of funding. And then the same proposal is again where it costs nothing. I mean, it gets a little funny when you reject other parties' proposals because it lacks funding, but you can suggest the same yourself when you find that it costs nothing, right? So have the Social Democrats regretted not voting in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130719	No, we have not, and I also remember from the same debate, argued that the government itself was looking at whether there were any charges that could be made, and that is one of them. That is why we have made this proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130736	I do not see that there are any more brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423130749	Thank you for that, President. On December 11, last year, I visited Nakskov Mill Foods at Lolland. It's a factory that has a long history. They have over a hundred employees, and they have a huge potential for growth. And then it's also where OTA Solgryn was earlier and again soon being produced. And this factory had a problem, because much of the factory's future lies in plant-based foods. But for a short time, unfortunately, it seemed that this future would be so expensive that the factory could wave goodbye to that part of their growth potential. And why is that? you could ask. Well, it went just as well. Well, the future suddenly looked a little more gloomy, because the tax authorities thought that plant-based foods with cocoa, such as... cocoa drink, should be taxed much, much harder than before and also much harder than milk-based foods with cocoa, such as: cocoa milk. And this despite the fact that they basically meet about the same needs, and even if plant-based foods are seen as climate-friendly and can contribute to the green transition. Fortunately for Nakskov Mill Foods and fortunately for many other Danish companies and fortunately for Danish consumers, there is now a large majority at Christiansborg who have awakened to deed. Several parties have put pressure on the government, which means that today we can first deal with a legislative proposal that ensures that the absurdly high levy on plant-based cocoa drinks that came out of the blue is now equivalent to the much lower levy on cocoa milk. That is, a green tax relief. The Left has been fighting for this ever since we became aware of the problem, so of course we are in favour of this bill. We are not just because the proposal ensures that it must remain cheap to buy cocoa drinks. No, we are actually also happy because this proposal so beautifully illustrates what is often lacking in the debate on the green transition here in Denmark. That is, the solution is not just higher taxes. Although this proposal is a small one, it actually shows clearly that production, economic activity and jobs are not in contrast to sustainability. And this shows that a large part of the climate struggle is actually in removing bureaucratic rules and reducing foolish charges and giving consumers the freedom to choose climate-friendly products. In fact, despite its modest size, it shows that the fight against climate challenges should not be the fight against food, the fight against growth or the fight against production. In fact, the opposite: we must fight for more growth and more production, but of course in a green and sustainable way. That is where the key lies, and if we can find that key, we as a society will show that the green transition can and must go hand in hand with economic growth, not the opposite. And here, this bill is a step away from a small step, but a step in the right direction. Now I've stood here and looked forward to the platform, and I don't want it all to be joyful and old, so I'm gonna have to make one thing clear. We welcome this bill, but we have also noted that some parties in here have taken the opportunity to campaign against ordinary milk, and we on the Left do not want to take part in that campaign. We are, so to speak, not so much into the hands of misindulgents that we do not, during milk production, have a large place in the future of Denmark. Milk is healthy, milk is good, and this legislation does not change that. And then we can rejoice that in the future we can eat OTA Solgryn, made in Denmark, with milk on it. I should also like to say a few words about the reinstatements that have been proposed in this law. It may be that it is because I am new to the Folketing that it may seem quite absurd that our legislation is so complex that important elements of tax legislation can be unintentionally removed without anyone noticing it. We may be asking some questions about it, but it seems right that we get it right with this law. So, on this basis, I would just like to say: the Left thinks it is a good and sensible legislative proposal. It contributes to the green transition, it contributes to the freedom of choice of the Danes, and then it contributes to growth in places like Nakskov Mill Foods. And that is why, of course, the Left is positive. I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that so is the Conservative People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131239	There is just one brief comment to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131242	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the presentation of equality of taxation, etc. Is it also the position of the Left that this should be done, for example? In the meat sector, where vegetable meat is then to be treated fiscally as traditional meat?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131259	Thank you to the questioner for the praise I sincerely welcome and thank you for the question. I am not going to stand here and make a promise that, in general, in a lot of tax areas, the Left wants to change a lot of tax rates, but what I want to say is that we are always in favour of looking at whether there are anywhere in our tax system where taxes are linked in a way, so that this gives some wrong incentives and some imbalances. So we are always open to looking at positive proposals, including positive proposals from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131337	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131338	The reason I ask is precisely that this is a tax reduction which equates it. I would like to ask whether the Left could also be open to tax increases, so that it should be equal in the name of the green conversion. Or is it not something that the Left sees in itself, that is to say that one can be involved in tax increases on, for example, the United Kingdom? Meat?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131401	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the fundamental position of the Left is that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane or more expensive to have a company in Denmark, and that is why our starting point is not that tax increases are good. I also thought I was trying to illustrate in my speech that we need to move politically away from that idea that the only way to make a green transition is to make it all more expensive and more difficult. Perhaps we should also open up the second part of the green transition: where we make it cheaper and easier. This could be a positive green-blue agenda. I hope New Citizens will take part in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131437	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we can move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423131443	Thank you. After all, this bill is about equality between cocoa drinks and cocoa milk. There is, of course, today the unequal competition that cocoa milk is not subject to chocolate tax, while cocoa drinks, which may be based on soya, are. And it is clear that such unequal competition in relation to two completely comparable products does not really make sense, so I think it is very good that we are getting one of the wrong taxes cleaned up. I think it is a good thing that we get started, but would also say that it is a small step, but a good step, because what about the rest of all the jacked taxes? Shouldn't we go get them? Well, there is, for example. tax on an auto bulb for a car, even though we have a legal requirement to have light on the car. Well, there's no behavioral effect. We still have a tax on air in softice 65 per cent. of the tax is air. Even more so when you know that the same mass you use to make a softice can be the same mass you use for a milkshake, but there is a charge on the softice, but not on the milkshake. Fortunately, there is no tax on lemonade, but if you are so stupid that you freeze lemonade for ice cream and sell it in a store, there is a tax on ice cream. I don't know if it's more unhealthy to drink lemonade or to freeze it and eat it afterwards. Well, it's probably pretty unhealthy. A freeze-self-is I think we all remember them from when you were a kid, a push-up ice cream, I think it was called "sold in a thawed state," which means that there is no charge on it, but if you sell it as frozen, you have to get ice duty on it. Well, what's most unhealthy when you buy it frozen or not frozen? I guess it's just bad for you. On the other hand, if you buy such an ice cream with a stick up at the end to hold it, there is no charge on the stick, but you buy the corresponding amount of ice cream in a cup where the stick is part of the meal, there is a one-off service charge, because then it is a spoon you use instead. And it could be the same material that's been used. If you take the additional levy for sparkling wines, that is to say, typically an asti where there is a charge on the air bubbles. Well, that doesn't seem very logical. It comes from the fact that if there is more than 3 bars of pressure in a wine bottle at 20 degrees, it actually says so in the legislation, 3 bars of pressure at 20 degrees, there is a charge on the air bubbles. We could take a look at that, too. Or let's look at comparable products. If you take a biscuit where there is vanilla cream in the middle, there is no charge, but if it is a biscuit with chocolate cream in the middle, there is a charge. Or what about the coffee tax, which has already been mentioned? It is not unhealthy to drink coffee at all, but why do we have a tax on it? And I understand that some of them are old taxes. These are not the fault of some people in the Chamber today, but could we not be a little more ambitious than just looking at the legislative proposal that is currently before us? One thing that saw, for example. points out to the EU that there are import duties on weapons of fire for discharge. Well, you remember in 1864, where you went and loaded down front. Well, if you removed that import duty on it, I don't think there's a lot of hunters who would go around and have it as a favorite weapon. What are we trying to stop imports here? I mean, there's import duties on weapons for loading. We have weight taxes on carrier bags; one can then be for or against that, but it makes no sense that the carrier bags actually made from recycled plastic are higher than those which are completely newly produced. We would like to see the environmental benefits of recycling plastics, but why do we tax the environmentally friendly ones more? You take a sausage tray, that's all. There is one-off service fee, but if the sausage tray is over 33 cm long, it is no longer a sausage tray, but a dish, and then it is free of charge. Stickwebs and straws are also not covered by the one-off service fee, but if you take a drink web, it is. I think most people who have tried to get a drink at a bar have found out that you can move around in drinks with a straw, which is then not taxed, but the drink web is at least a mess, and we need less of that. I mean, there are so many crazy charges we can get to grips with. The latest example I've come across is a tray of fries. I remember that when you were down in the hall, you could get a square tray with ketchup down in the corner, where you were a little annoying actually sitting and got all the fries sucked into ketchup or remoulade. There is a charge on the fries tray, because then it is some one-off service, but the same tray can be used to get strawberries in, and then there is no charge, because then it is for transporting the strawberries in, and then we don't eat from it. Well, it's exactly the same material they're made of, but it's completely insane that there's a charge on the fries tray and not on the strawberry tray. If, on the other hand, you buy fries in those hills down at the barbecue bar, where there is a lid, instead of where you typically use more material, it is also free of charge, because it is a tray to transport the fries in and not to eat off. I think many of us may have eaten fries of those trays too. Well, there are so many gaps in our tax legislation that we could clean up. I really think we owe it to the Danes to have a simpler tax system, as one can understand. This is, in fact, only an advantage for the tax administration, because I believe that many of the scandals that exist today are also due to the fact that no one can find out what the legislation is about. I mean, not even tax workers can necessarily figure out what to tax on and what not to tax on. Do you have to check whether it is a sausage tray under or over 33 cm? There's an employee who has to check these charges. So I think we could get something out of having a simpler tax system. So this is a good bill, but also a very small step along the way. So I hope that we can get to grips with the long list of pending charges that might need to be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132001	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132004	I would like to thank the rapporteur. I fully agree that we should have done away with these crazy charges, and that can only go too slowly. When I take the floor, it is because many of these taxes are not, after the present government has taken office, any taxes. They were also there under the previous government. And I would really like to ask: what was the answer when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær went to former ministers with this problem and would have removed these hacked charges? Why did they not then be removed under a Left Government and a VLAK government? Why didn't they get rid of them then? What was the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132042	Yes, the answer was that we actually started. We had some of them removed. They made such a reorganisation committee as they called it, where they had to look at which taxes could be reduced. Taxes were abolished on, for example: Coffee substitutes. I don't think anyone's using coffee substitutes anymore. It was such a relic of war time. There was a charge on the gas in disposable lighters. There were a large number of such hacked charges that we actually got removed. But it is clear that we did not reach the goal, and that is why I think we should try to go further and then move on down that road. I must also say frankly that part of the reason why we did not get it all done was also a question of funding at the time when there were other things going on. When we sanitized some of the charges, there were among others. growth package from 2017, where everything else was included, among others. a stock savings account that we will be discussing shortly, where there were also other priorities that were then chosen to spend the tax dollars on. So that is the reason why we have not made it all the way, but that does not prevent us from being able to do it now. Although it was not achieved a few years ago, I think that the Folketing could well begin to move in that direction now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132138	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132140	I fully agree with that. If you then also state here that there is no change in revenue, then the argument about funding is not good, because it is free to remove them, and it would also have been free to remove them at that time. But I do hope that it will be possible to say in broad terms here in the Danish Parliament that this work will be started. I fully agree that we should. I could only wonder why they had not already been removed, when you have been sitting here for 3-4 years, even under a bourgeois government. When you look at it from the outside, you ask why they have not been removed - and especially those that were revenue neutral, as we can see that this example is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132212	The problem we are dealing with today of plant-based cocoa drinks against cocoa milk, I do not think we were aware of a few years ago. It's relatively new. So that's why you haven't solved it in the past. Some of the examples I have not actually been aware of before. I didn't even know that the charge on the fries tray that I mentioned before existed. Fortunately, many people write to us: they themselves dive into the legislation and find many of these crazy things that make you realize it later. So part of the list I've got with cracked things, I didn't know myself two years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132244	I do not see any more brief remarks. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Kathrine Olvog from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132253	Thank you. I mean, it's hard to come after sir. Dennis Flydtkjær's informative listing here, but whatever it is, I've also been looking forward to the first reading of this bill, because when you're down in the supermarket and you need to bring home 1 litre of cocoa drink, it doesn't work, as a lactose intolerant, as the Left mentioned, or vegan, you have to pay double for a plant-based cocoa drink compared to a cocoa milk, but it would have been the case in the future if we hadn't made this "search and replace" in the proposal to amend the chocolate tax law. For, of course, plant-based cocoa drinks must be exempted from the chocolate levy, just as cocoa milk is. It is not a deliberate discrimination that has occurred, but an expression of culture and of the history of food production in Denmark and of the legislation that goes with it. And that's the thing. I would like to sit on the helicopter for a moment here today. There is not much that we Danes feel as strongly for as our food culture. We see again and again the most basic in our lives being made identity policy and value policy. It is as if every time food pops up in our political discussions, a 'them' and 'us' immediately arises. It could, for example, be done. be those who eat meat, and those who do not, or those who eat pork, and those who do not. And we're not reluctant to shout out on both sides of that fence. The emotional debate about what to eat and not eat tends to drown and reset the sober political conversation, because emotions are voices. And therefore the rationale of the vast majority of us here at Christiansborg is that it is best not to talk about food policy at all. But with a climate crisis raging out there, and with younger generations of citizens who are very aware that they shape the world through their personal choices, I think we will have an abrupt awakening here at Castle. We need to be able to talk about food fairly rationally. It's no good for us to keep sticking our heads in the sand. This proposal is of a technical nature, so it is safe. It's small, it's safe, and it's a rare window into a policy area that I'm sure the voters of the future are going to demand more and better versions of.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132516	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, so we can move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132524	Thank you. In late summer, I stumbled upon one of the most illogical charges I've seen for a long time. I discovered that cocoa drink based on other than cow's milk was to be hit by a tax of DKK 26. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. This means that you produced a cocoa drink based on oats or soya or almond or similar, you would have to pay 76 times as much in tax as if you were producing a cocoa drink based on cow's milk. That would, frankly, be a disaster for the companies producing plant-based cocoa drinks, and I think it would be possible to expect that such a tax would throw virtually all plant-based cocoa drinks off the Danish market. This, as several people have already pointed out from the platform, is not a huge issue, especially when compared with how far-reaching measures we otherwise deal with here in the Folketing in these days, but I think it is actually important too symbolic. Companies that contribute innovative products and renew our food culture should not be penalised for this, especially when they contribute with a product that contributes so much to the green transition. Cow's milk emits three times more CO2 and uses more than ten times more land area compared to different types of plant drinks. Finally, if taxes were to be discriminated against, it should be the most climate-damaging who paid the most. After all, it is the tax rapporteurs who are gathered today, and perhaps not everyone is so used to debating food, but I do believe that what we are witnessing in these years is the beginning of a food revolution. More and more Danes choose the plant-based foods for, switch cow's milk out with oat drink, eat good plant-based protein sources as lenses and beans and suddenly compete supermarkets on who can present the widest selection of plant-based and oat drinks and vegan burger steaks. All for the benefit of the climate, welfare and the environment and animals. When I grew up, it was the adults who told the kids to eat some more vegetables. Now it is climate-conscious youths who ask their parents for more meat-free days at home. That development is needed, and politicians should not put their feet on it. On the contrary, I think we should help it along the way. And that's what we do with this bill. Thanks to the government and the parliament's many parties for listening. SF supports the proposal, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132804	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132806	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, because I have noted that Mr. Carl Valentin has asked some questions about this and tried to get it on the agenda. So thank you for that. I fully agree that it is important for there to be a level playing field in this area, so I would really like to ask whether SF will help to look at other areas where there could also be unequal competition, for example. the fact that a softice is subject to tax while a milkshake is not subject to tax, although it is exactly the same basic mass; it comes in the same bucket. Is it not also a problem in terms of competition that one product is taxed and the other is not? Or what about wine? If you go down and buy an ordinary wine, it is wine tax, but without an additional levy. If you buy a wine bottle with 3 bar pressure at 20 degrees, then there is a charge on the air bubbles in the wine. But that's not what's unhealthy. Will the SF's rapporteur not help to look at some other areas where there is also such a competitive situation which seems to be frivolous, to put it bluntly?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132900	Yes, we in the SF would really like to take a look at that. I think there are plenty of strange charges in the Danish system, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has also pointed out very carefully today. We would like to take a look at that. Having said that, it must also be said that we are not afraid of creating a little unfair competition in some areas, if we can thus help to ensure some greener habits, for example. We think it makes sense to give competitive advantages to sustainable products. But when the charges are completely meaningless, as they are, for example. may be on coffee, which is highlighted today, or perhaps on softice, then we are actually willing to look at it. What often divides us here in Parliament is how to finance it, and I think it has often been a stop-block. In principle, however, we are totally ready to help clean up the tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132944	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423132945	Thank you for your positive statement. I agree, of course, that it may well make sense to differentiate taxes if there is something you want to promote. But where there are such things that don't make sense, it's all wrong. I am in favour of funding for some of the things, but if you took, for example. I would like to ask whether the SF could live with a model whereby the additional levy could be removed and the ordinary wine levy raised slightly, so that it would be neutral, but it would ensure that there was equal competition between the two products. Because it doesn't seem to be the air bubbles in the wine bottles that we have to regulate on behavior. That's the amount of alcohol we need to regulate on behavior. I think we agree on that. But could it be a financing model?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133027	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133028	I have not gone into the question of the wine levy in great depth, but I certainly do not wish to reject it. We can look at it and see if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133036	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133043	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Rune Lund, unable to be here, I have promised to make our views known. As the debate has shown, charging systems can sometimes be inappropriately screwed together. This is a clear example of that. That is why, of course, we also support the element that we should not discriminate between cocoa drinks based on milk and cocoa drinks based on other basic substances. We also think it is a good thing that we have an error corrected, although it has nothing to do with this draft law, but that we have an error corrected in relation to the accounting requirements of the sanctions laid down in the CFC Tax Act. There can be nothing but support for that. In relation to the last element, where the Minister of Taxation can lay down detailed rules for us to comply with EU rules in relation to state aid, we will ask whether there are specific cases in which the EU is dissatisfied with the Danish administration of the scheme. In short, is this a specific problem on which there are grounds for amending the law? But overall, Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133153	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133159	I just love a good ribeye or a côte de boeuf or an entrecote. Such a proper rack with ribs it won't get much better than that. And there are no politicians in the Folketing, either at one end of the Chamber or at the other end of the Chamber, who are going to start trying to decide how much I will eat of it. I eat just as much as I can get anywhere near, because it just tastes delicious. That is why I think it is wrong if this is to be a debate about whether to eat real food or to eat vegan food. It should just be a debate that we have to remove a lot of taxes that make no sense. We can support this in the new citizens. That is why we would like to see these taxes completely removed instead of just making them equal. Get rid of them. Let the citizens decide for themselves what they want to eat out there. I think we're gonna have a better society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133253	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. That's why it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133307	Thank you. As I read it from the government's papers, today there is a tax of DKK 26. per A liter of cocoa drinks made on plants, while a tax of only 22 cents is levied on 1 litre of cocoa milk. In other words, the levy on the plant-based cocoa drink is more than 100 times higher than the levy on ordinary cocoa milk. The bill will then put an end to this discrimination, and we cannot but support it. I would also like to endorse the proposal by the new citizens that a tax on cocoa milk should be abolished altogether. In some families there are children who do not really like to drink ordinary milk. They prefer to have some cocoa in it to get it down, and children need lime, and you can get lime from milk too from other products, but it can be difficult to get your children to eat vegetables. So why should we actually have a levy on cocoa milk at all, just because it is some milk that has been added to some cocoa and some sugar? Then let's do it. In the meantime, we are doing this by lowering the tax on cocoa drinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133437	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. That's why it's the tax minister now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133445	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for your support for this legislative proposal, which is, of course, linked to the fact that a majority now and, of course, the government too gives priority to tax legislation being appropriate and can also help to ensure a level playing field, just as the government also wants legislation to keep up with time, and it does not matter that it also follows developments in the society of which we are part. This applies, for example, to the introduction of new products on the market which can contribute to the green transition. This bill ensures, as has been suggested, that the chocolate tax law does not discriminate inappropriately between cocoa milk and other cocoa drinks which do not contain milk, such as plant-based cocoa drinks. More specifically, it is proposed to extend the lax taxation in the chocolate tax law for cocoa and chocolate milk respectively to all ready-made cocoa drinks. In addition, as I said, it is also proposed to extend the light tax on the so-called other cocoa-containing milk products to similar cocoa products, whether or not the products in question contain milk. Finally, it is proposed to give retroactive effect to these amendments as from 1 September 2016, in order to avoid any post-clearance recovery of chocolate tax under the applicable rules, which would result in the payment of a very high tax. The draft law also contains some minor amendments to a number of tax laws on energy and the environment, which we have also been around. The only purpose of the amendments is to correct the unintentional repeal of some provisions of these laws by previous amending laws. They will be reinstated now. Let me finish by saying where I started by thanking both the debate that has taken place, but also the broad support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133700	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133714	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423133731	Thank you for the floor. Over the last few decades, we have seen an increase in economic inequality in Denmark. And we can see that the increasing inequality at home is due in particular to differences in capital income, including equity income. Therefore, if we are to overcome the growing inequality, we also need to get more Danes with ordinary incomes to invest their free resources in, for example. stock, so they get more out of their money; of course, with common sense in mind, one should always go to shares with. That is why the Social Democratic Party at the time also supported the bill behind the creation of a share savings account under the then government. We did so because it intends to spread more of their free resources to those who have free resources, for example. by investing in shares. The purpose of the share savings account is therefore to make it easy and attractive for ordinary Danes to invest in shares; this is done by introducing this share savings account, where people can place their savings in quoted shares and share-based investment certificates at a lower rate of taxation than that which otherwise is the normal tax on equity income. The bill we are discussing here today must be seen in the context of the 2020 Finance Act and specifically aims to increase the ceiling for deposits into the share savings account from DKK 50,000. in 2019 to DKK 100,000. in 2020. The proposed increase should increase the incentive to create a share savings account so that more employees invest their free funds and thus get more out of them. The aim of the draft law is also to reduce taxation on investment in UCITS. It is proposed to reinstate the tax exemption for foreign investors and Danish investment companies of dividends from UCITS that invest exclusively in bonds. In addition, it is proposed to adjust the withholding tax rate for dividends paid to Danish investment companies and Danish UCITS with minimum taxation, so that the dividend tax contained corresponds to the final tax. This avoids the need to apply for a refund of an otherwise excessive tax. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134001	Mr President, first of all I should like to make a brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134005	Thank you. The reason I am taking the floor is because I am surprised that the Socialist Government is putting forward a proposal to raise the ceiling for a share savings account, because on 29 November 2018, a press release from the Social Democrats had been issued on some proposals that people with high incomes would have to pay more to the community. And there's a quote from Mette Frederiksen in the press release that I'm going to read. It says: 'It is not about the fact that talented people must not make money or that there must be no differences, but the differences must not be too great. That is why our proposal is primarily about countering developments that undermine our trust and social contract. So the ceiling on the share savings account would not be raised, because that would undermine our confidence and the social contract. Why, then, is it now being proposed? And that must mean that the Socialists believe that we can now put forward proposals that would undermine our confidence and undermine our social contract, because that is what we have said with the current Prime Minister in the lead of the press release.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134108	So, the purpose of the stock savings account here is to make it easy and attractive for ordinary Danes to invest in shares, and by raising the ceiling to DKK 100,000. is the intention to create an even greater incentive for Danish savers to invest via the share savings account. And it also has something to do with the fact that we in Denmark want to achieve a better stock culture, as we see in our neighbouring countries. This is an expression of the fact that political winds can change. We have here a government and a number of supporting parties, such as the Radical Left, and there may be requests from the supporting parties, also to change their policy, and this is a very common approach when we work with politics. So, in relation to this bill, I would like to emphasise that the Social Democrats certainly think that this is a good idea, and this is also a way to combat an economic inequality in society that is otherwise increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134215	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134217	Well, I cannot help feeling a little confused, because now you think this is a good idea, but before the elections you sent out a press release saying that you thought it was a bad idea and that you would not raise the ceiling because it would contribute to a development that undermines our trust and social contract. Then I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether one still thinks that raising the ceiling on the share savings account will help to promote a development that undermines our trust and social contract. Because that is what Mrs Mette Frederiksen wrote in the Socialist press release.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134250	For me, it is important in today's platform to say that we have to put an end to the growing inequality, and we can do that with this bill because we have more Danes with ordinary incomes investing their free resources in, for example. shares. After all, we also supported the proposal for a directive on the creation of a share savings account, that is to say, under the government of that time, and we did so because it intends to spread more money to those workers who have free funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134323	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134325	Thank you. It is no secret that we in the Left are very pleased that the government has begun to look more positively at the equity savings account and that it has begun to see that more needs to be done to promote investment, particularly in entrepreneurship. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the government will also take a positive view of raising the ceiling further in line with the stair model agreed in the entrepreneurship agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134351	I'm relying on this bill and raising the ceiling to $100,000. we will create even greater incentives for Danish savers to invest via the share savings account. That is what is essential with the bill here, namely that we in Denmark can achieve a better stock culture, as we see in our neighbouring countries. This is also an effort in relation to increasing inequality. We would like people with ordinary incomes to be able to invest their free funds in shares as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134425	Marie Bjerre wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134428	Thank you. We in the Left really appreciate these positive notes coming from the government in relation to the share savings account, and we also believe that it is absolutely necessary to get some more money into society. And especially in the situation we are in now, we think it is important that we get more capital to work. Therefore, I also ask whether this is not a good way of getting more money to work in Danish society and whether it would not be sensible to raise the ceiling on the account further next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134456	I would like to maintain that with this bill we are raising the amount from 50,000 to 100,000 DKK, and that is, as I have explained several times, on the basis of a intention to create a greater incentive for Danes with very common incomes and to allow them to invest in shares. Then I fully agree that, as a result of this corona health crisis, where we have experienced sharp declines in the stock markets, it may be reasonable that through these investments in the equity savings account we can help to benefit both companies and their employees. And, as we have discussed earlier today, we must keep our hands on our businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134536	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134538	My question is, is this bill increasing or reducing inequality in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134548	It is the view of the Social Democratic Party that in recent years we have seen a deterioration in economic inequality in Denmark and that this inequality at home is due in particular to differences in capital income, including share income, and that this proposal can help to counter some of the growing inequality. Here we are allowing people with ordinary incomes to invest their free funds in shares.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134614	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134616	But frankly, that's bullshit. Well, I'm asking if this bill increases or reduces inequality in general in society. It may well be that this offers better opportunities for people who can invest; I cannot really see that either, because you can still invest now. You just change how much you can make from it. So I have to ask again: is this proposal increasing or reducing inequality in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134640-2	Well, as I have answered: for us, this is an important grip, also in terms of reducing the rise in economic inequality. In doing so, we also allow people with ordinary incomes to invest in shares. So we reduce economic inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134702	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Bjerre from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423134715	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I must say that it is nice to be back on Parliament's platform, and nice that we are now also dealing with a legislative proposal that has nothing to do with the Corona crisis. In fact, I think there are many of us who have been looking forward to that. The bill here stems from the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement of 2017, concluded between the former Left-led government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. The draft law basically aims to make it more attractive for ordinary Danes to invest in shares. It is worth noting that the draft law was actually intended in a completely different time and context than the one we are in now. But never has it been more topical with this particular bill. The Danish economy is in a deep and serious crisis. There has been a sharp slowdown in both Danish and international economics, and the forecasts are unfortunately gloomy. That is why, in particular, we now need more money into society, just as we need more money to be exchanged for good ideas, so that the economic gears that drive society do not stop. Fortunately, the Danes have a lot of money, a lot of money actually. During the corona crisis, the Danes save as never before. In just the first three weeks of decommissioning, the Danes' net worth increased by 13 billion. kr. In short, the Danes have never had more money, and at the same time there has never been a greater need for that money to go out to work. Unfortunately, we have a poor stock culture in Denmark, which means that far too few Danes invest. And there may be a good reason for that. Because the point is that we have the second highest tax on equity income throughout the OECD. The short of the long term is that we have been lagging behind other countries for far too long, including countries with which we are usually comparing ourselves. It is simply not durable, and it is certainly not durable right now. So as you can understand, there is a need to do something, and that is why the initiative with a stock savings account is right. For, in a simple way, one gets the opportunity to invest in shares at a lower rate of taxation than for normal investment in shares. In addition, we need to raise the ceiling. Fortunately, with the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement, we agreed that a decision should be taken every year to increase the ceiling until 2022, so we end up at DKK 200,000. With the bill here, we are now taking the first step and raising the ceiling from 50,000 kroner. to DKK 100,000, valid from January 1st this year. Next year we look forward to raising the ceiling by an additional DKK 50,000. In this context, I would like to stress that the Left believes that it is absolutely crucial that we stick to the increase in the ceiling, especially in the situation we are in now. That is why we also believe that the government should immediately adhere to the agreed increase in the ceiling. This must happen so that the Danes know what they have to expect, yes, so that the Danes can get out to invest the amount of money they have left in good Danish companies. This is what our companies need right now. Let me conclude: the Left is happy to press the green button for this bill. By the way, I can say that the Conservatives do too. But, dear government, only raising the share savings account this year is not enough. Decide whether you want to help raise the ceiling to DKK 200,000 already. in 2022. The fact is, the money is set aside in the agreement. So there shouldn't be anything holding you back. So it's just getting started, all the more so if you want to do something for Danish business, which needs as never before. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135122	Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135128	Thank you. The reason I am taking the floor is because I noticed that the rapporteur of the Left said that more money is needed in society. And then I just want to hear how she gets to that premise, because money on a stock savings account is not money that comes down into corporate cash. It's money that's gonna change between shareholders when you have a stock savings account. I mean, I might buy shares from Mrs. Marie Bjerre, but it doesn't mean that more money comes in Carlsberg's box or in DSV's box, so it's quite illogical. After all, there will be no more money in companies' cash registers, because they are quoted shares. Nor will it benefit entrepreneurs, because they are unlisted shares in start-ups. So it's all about moving money between those who already own shares. When you say that you are doing this because you want to have a better stock culture, I just want to ask the rapporteur if she is aware that an evaluation of this scheme has been made which shows that it is actually existing shareholders who are using this scheme just for a lower tax rate. And that the experience of the first year hasn't been • Well, there aren't a lot of new regular employees who buy shares now • it's existing shareholders. So I don't quite understand the logic of why it's a good idea and how money gets into society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135232	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135234	Thank you for the question. I appreciate that very much. I am aware that an analysis has been made of this system, which has therefore only been allowed to apply for a year. And I am also aware that there are actually a lot of Danes who would like to use this scheme but who have not yet had it done. So there is precisely a reason for making the scheme work and there is a need for some time. When I say that we have a poor stock culture, this is because not enough buys shares that invest in shares. This is a tool that can help ensure that we have a better stock culture. But it takes a long time to change a culture, so there is also a need for us to look at it for a little longer than just a single year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135318	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135320	Thank you for your answer. I lacked an answer to the second question: how this was supposed to secure money in society. How does this give money in corporate boxes? Does the rapporteur not agree that this is, of course, about moving money between shareholders? It's not like if I buy shares, I put money in Carlsberg's box or in Mærsk's box. After all, I buy the shares from someone else, because they are quoted shares, they are all about, and that does not give any money in society, and that does not give any money in the corporate funds. Then it wouldn't be better to spend this money on cashing out, for example. the investor allowance? I mean, it's like unlisted shares in entrepreneurship. That would give money directly into the corporate funds. Couldn't we do it instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135352	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135359	Now, therefore, we can also make a share increase, a capital increase, and then we are talking about new shares, so that we get more money into society. So I simply do not agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135406	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135408	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the fact that another arrangement is now being made here. Could the Left not support simply lowering capital taxation in general rather than some kind of system whereby politicians have to decide how much it has to be? Now let us make it simple and reduce capital taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135431	I very much believe that we in the Left will help to see if we can have more simple rules on share taxation. But now it is the case that we also need a majority in order to do so, and this scheme is as simple a scheme as we have been able to find, in order to get more Danes to invest in shares. That is why, of course, we are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135445	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135447	I think that is nice tactics, and if there is a majority one can hope that we can then make a firm low capital tax instead of this one with stairs and envy tax and all sorts of other things. When the Left was in power in the last period, why didn't you do this a little more simple system?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135507	I'm not gonna be able to answer that, as long as I'm still away as a newly elected MP. So what went through there, I can't account for. But the fact is that this scheme will create a better stock culture where it is cheaper to invest in shares, and I hope that New Citizens will be able to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423135533	Thank you. This bill also contains several elements, and I will spend most of my speaking time talking about the share savings account. It is the case today that there is a share savings account that has a limit of DKK 50,000, that is to say, which you can shoot into it, and where it is then suggested that it be set up to DKK 100,000. And, as the previous rapporteur rightly said, it is in order to increase the stock culture. And the question is this: have we had an increase in the stock culture at the time it has worked? So I cannot see that, frankly, in the light of the modest evaluation that has been made. Because it says that most people who have used this scheme are people who already trade shares. There are about 35,000 users of the share-saving scheme, most of whom already had a depot from which they trade shares. So it has not increased the stock culture, so I do not think it is a good idea to raise the limit. Moreover, I also thought it was a funny debate with the Social Democrat rapporteur, who says that this is to increase equality. Well, it's beyond question that this creates inequality. And you might think that this proposal is a good idea, that is, because you want to have an increased stock culture, but it does not create increased equality. I find that absolutely indisputable that one can conclude. I think it would be much more obvious that we spent the money on something else; first of all, perhaps just as an inspiration from the previous bill to get a simpler tax system. After all, the stock savings account is such a hybrid that sits outside the rest of the tax legislation in the stock sector, which makes it just more complicated and thus makes it even harder for the Danes to see through. Well, it's already not hard to get a depository in a bank and trade a stock. You can make it quite simple from your mobile phone; you could easily do it while sitting down in the room. It is fairly easy to deal with; taxation is actually not difficult to find out. But now there is another hybrid on top of here, and that does not make it any easier, and it is not something that just promotes that you then think it is simple and easy to make. So I think that the same money should be spent on removing some of the crappy charges instead. That was something that could be understood for people • something that could make it easier to deal with the tax system, including for the tax administration. However, I would like to say that it is an agreement that we were originally involved in to keep the money in the same ball street, and if it is to be something in relation to shareholders or other things, one could benefit from raising the investor's allowance instead. This is something that benefits unlisted stocks. In other words, start-up companies, which can typically find it difficult to obtain liquidity, would benefit from the fact that instead of spending the money on raising the investor allowance and then benefiting smaller companies. You could also look at the stock income growth limit. Today it is the case that there is a limit of DKK 55,300, and there you pay 27 per cent, and above that you pay 42 per cent. So if you want to do something for those who don't have a lot of shares, you could, for example. increase the progression limit. It is just to mention that there are many things you could do instead of extending the limit on a stock savings account that no one is using and where it is not something that creates an increased stock culture. You could also choose to spend the money on, for example. to make it more attractive to get employee shares not so for the board of directors, but for the broad crowd of employees there is a scheme today for how they can get employee shares. It could also be an option. In other words, it is also to promote a stock culture that you find out as an employee that you actually have an active shareholding in your company. I think that is actually very healthy, because you will then also gain greater ownership of it, a greater motivation to make a difference and make improvements yourself, because, after all, you will also get something out of the increase in value that is coming. It's just to say that there are a lot of things we could do instead. And I think that one of those we should perhaps first address was to have a simpler tax system so that it could be better understood. So the Danish People's Party does not support the increase in the ceiling on the share savings account, and that puts us in a somewhat strange situation in a parliamentary Parliament, which we must then figure out how to deal with, because we are part of the parties to the agreement that should agree to raise it. But if one of the parties to the agreement does not agree to raise it, what do we do? And I have not been called for any debate or discussion on whether or not we should raise it before we came to the Chamber, so I do not know how to move forward from here. Frankly, I am also a little surprised that we have got the bill down here, because, as I said, there was a press release from the Socialists who tabled the proposal which said that it should not be raised here because it created increased inequality. It was even said that this would help create a development that increases our distrust of society and our social contract. Now it is another argument in which it is said that it is something that does not create inequality. So I am actually wondering why the Socialists are making this proposal, which was not part of the agreement. It has been fought against before the elections and has sent out a press release stating that this was terrible, and now it is being proposed for itself. But the conclusion of my speech here is that I think we should spend this money on something else. Generally speaking, we could make the tax system simpler. And if it were finally the case that they would be used in the contract circle for shareholders and investments, perhaps the investor allowance should be increased instead. This is certainly something that benefits the unlisted shares, i.e. where small companies might think that it would be better. So we're open to looking at other solutions, but I don't think it's a good idea to raise the ceiling on the stock savings account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140031	There is a brief comment from Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140033	Thank you. I am a little surprised by the rapporteur himself that the Danish People's Party has been involved in concluding this agreement. In that agreement there was also half an agreement that we would raise the ceiling to DKK 100,000. And hopefully also $200,000. later. If the rapporteur then stands and leans that proposal down the board now, it is about the rapporteur not thinking that it has had any effect. After all, the evaluation referred to by the rapporteur has only one year on the back, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, and in it one of the arguments has been that the ceiling was too low, that is, that it has not made sense for many investors to invest in a savings account. Then the rapporteur could not come up with his own arguments in such a small way and say that precisely by raising the ceiling we might actually succeed in this arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140133	It is true that we are in the agreement, and it is actually quite clear in the agreement that we as political parties in the contract circle must decide whether or not to increase it. The reason we ended up on that compromise was because some people thought it should be DKK 200,000.; we thought it should be 50,000 kroner. The trade union movement. It was because we said that after a year we could evaluate it and ask whether there was a need for it to rise or not. It is a very limited evaluation that has come and the evaluation of what has then come does not show that there has been any effect of it. So I really don't see why you should raise it. If it's because you think it's been there too short, you could let it run one more year or two more years before you raised it, because after all you got some more evidence of how it worked. I think it is too fast to say that just because we do not really have a proper evaluation, it should just increase. Then, on the other hand, we should wait until we had a proper evaluation, and I do not think we have had that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140220	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140223	What I also hear from the rapporteur is that precisely because no discussions have been convened and because this has not been agreed before we stand in this Chamber and discuss it, it is that the Danish People's Party chooses to withdraw its support for its own agreement. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140241	No. I was just highlighting the somewhat special parliamentary situation. We agreed on this in the paper that we signed in 2017, that is to say that the parties should agree on it before raising the ceiling. Now we stand in the Chamber and have found out that we have not had any discussions on it and that we do not agree on it. So what do we do? I am actually very open to the fact that we can jointly spend the money on something else that might benefit companies, for example. an investor allowance, look at the proportion limit, or look at making it easier and more attractive in terms of employee shares. It's just to be constructive. It could also be the tax system, which I personally think is important, but it is not so much a different street in the field of taxation. So I am actually very open to looking at other areas, but I just don't think that the savings account is the best way to support our companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140319	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why it is now Kathrine Olldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140337	We in the Radical Left are, of course, in favour of this proposal. It often comes out in the political debate that entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises face challenges in providing risk capital to develop the company, create more jobs and also create new large companies that we can all benefit from. International studies also show that funding, i.e. access to capital, is one of the major challenges facing Danish industry. At the same time, we know that this year the Danes together round savings in the bank or in the pension company of 1,000 billion. kr. It's the money that the contract circle behind this law has been looking at for a long time. Because how do we get the Danes to jump into putting their fortunes into circulation? It is for us to see a highly topical issue, not least in the light of the solutions that the green transition requires of us and of business. Here, the stock savings account is a tool to promote the investment desire of several Danes. For us, therefore, it is a matter of investment culture. But as some of the criticism has also sounded, it makes the best financial sense for investors if the deposit ceiling is higher than DKK 50,000. That is why I am very pleased that we are putting forward this proposal today, which raises the ceiling to DKK 100,000, and I look forward to the day when we raise it further to DKK 200,000, as discussed in the contract circle and as the Left also mentioned. I hope that this initiative will give the share savings account more wind, so that the Danes want to invest their savings more for the benefit of all of us. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140519	There is a brief comment from Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140521	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur mentioned at the beginning of his speech that there was a lot of focus on raising capital for entrepreneurs and start-ups. That is true, and it is also an important agenda. But can the rapporteur not also confirm that this is not at all about it? This is a way to be able to trade shares, i.e. quoted shares. It could be Carlsberg, it could be Jyske Bank or Danske Bank. It is to move money between shareholders, but not to move money into companies. If you want to focus on supporting entrepreneurs and getting capital out, you have to look at some other things. Then it's entrepreneurial deductions or other things. Has it not given any reflection on the part of the Radical Left that there could be other ways of spending the money which exactly supported the purpose that one wants? This is such a very indirect way of supporting it. In other words, could we not find together a more effective way of supporting entrepreneurs rather than having a share savings account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140610	We are very open to discussing it. We have also been before, together with the Danish People's Party. When we made this law in its time, we were very open to the fact that it should also apply to unlisted shares, i.e. support entrepreneurship. This was not possible in the context of the agreement at the time. However, should we continue to develop and improve this scheme, as we are actually doing today, then it would clearly be on our wish list, perhaps as priority number one, in other words that unlisted shares and entrepreneurship could be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140640	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140648	Thank you. The proposal here has two elements. One is about increasing the ceiling for deposits into the share savings account; the other is about abolishing tax freedom when investing in Danish UCITS that invest only in bonds. The stock savings account was originally justified by the fact that the Swedish model required a more widespread stock culture in Denmark. This meant that the benefits and gains of the stock market would be spread to a larger proportion of the population than just the relatively small and economically privileged part which has historically taken advantage of the stock market. Such an intention to democratise or extend the ownership of shares to a larger part of the Danish population supports the SF, as we believe that the goods of the stock market should reach the general population and not just the economic elite. However, we do not believe that the share savings account will solve that task. Instead, the tax advantages will primarily come to those who have sufficient wealth to invest, and with the proposal to raise the ceiling on the share savings account, the tax benefits of those who already use the stock market will only increase. It is immediately unlikely, we believe, that many more people with smaller fortunes will take advantage of the stock market just because the ceiling is raised. Therefore, we fear that the proposal will result in a tax bonus for already wealthy shareholders and not necessarily ensure an increase in the share market to the ordinary Dane. In the SF we do not want to give tax relief to shareholders, and we note that both Oxfam IBIS and the main trade union organisation point out the biased distribution profile of the proposal in the consultation responses. I think we should consider dividing the proposal into two. In fact, the second part of the proposal here seems to us to be sensible enough. As I see it, it is a reversal of an unintended rule change. The situation today means that direct investment in bonds is better taxed than the purchase of the same bonds through an investment fund. This is inappropriate, as there are advantages in that among other things. people with less savings are given the opportunity to spread their risks through investment funds. However, just to avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to emphasise that in the SF we continue to believe that taxation of capital and share income should be increased for top tax payers. That's what I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140907	This is a little in line with the debate that was held with the Socialist rapporteur. I just want to ask how SF feels about this proposal: do you think this is something that creates inequality or reduces inequality? In fact, I understood from the Socialist rapporteur that he thought that it would be more equal in society to reduce the taxation of shareholders. I just want to know whether the SF rapporteur agrees with the logic used by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140934	I note that both Oxfam IBIS and the main trade union organization write in the hearings that this proposal together has a biased distribution profile. I find that problematic, and I think they are right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140948	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423140949	Thank you. I agree with that. I would just like to ask whether the SF's rapporteur does not also agree with me that it is a little strange with this press release from the Socialists, which is precisely arguing against raising the ceiling because it creates inequality and which says that it is damaging the cohesion of our country and undermining confidence. Isn't it a little strange, then, that you have a social democratic government which itself is proposing it now? So you used the same argument as the SF before the elections, but after the elections you changed your mind and do exactly the opposite. Doesn't SF think it's a little weird, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141019	Yeah, it's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141023	Thank you for that and we will move on in the rapporteur's line. Here you go, Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141030	Thank you. We might as well say this right away: the Enhedslisten is voting against this proposal. We do this because the draft law is a blow to the business package, in which the blue parties, together with the Radical Left, made a series of inequality-building tax cuts in favour of people who have a lot of free money that they can invest in, among other things. shares. We basically do not agree that we have a very brutal tax on equity income in Denmark. On the contrary, we believe that the share income tax should be closer to the tax paid on wage income. After all, it is grotesque that it is better fiscally to speculate in shares than to go to work. And I must say a little over the perception that people who just have 100,000 kroner. to put in shares, can be seen as ordinary Danes. At least I have a different line. After all, the Share Saving Account Act has lowered the tax to 15%. for up to 50,000 kroner. So far, and that limit is then increased to DKK 100,000. We cannot back that up. The Enhedslisten was not included in the business package. We did not support the bill on the share savings account when it came to the Chamber afterwards and, of course, we will not support this bill. Like other parties in the red block, Enhedslisten had liked to see the share savings account used as funding in the 2020 Finance Act. There was a proposal that the money spent on raising the maximum amount to DKK 100,000 could be used to finance climate action or welfare. There was no support for this among all the parties in the block, which is why the funding element was removed from the table. We had to live with that. But that does not mean that at the same time we are going to vote in favour of this bill, which is deeply opposed to us. The other relaxations for UCITS just support our opposition to L 165. Several relaxations have been made for UCITS, among others. in the same business package, and if it were up to us, these concessions were removed. That is why we cannot support what is contained in this proposal. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to assure Parliament with a very open mind that it is expected that this proposal will lead to greater equality in society, as was clearly stated by the Socialist rapporteur in his speech. We would like an assurance of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141308	First of all, of course, we support this proposal. It is a tax reduction, and of course we can support it in New Citizens. In addition, I would also like to say that we would like to see capital taxation reduced to 25% in general. Let's make it simple, let's make it attractive to save and invest in stocks in Denmark. And this is done with a flat capital tax of 25%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141342	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Ole Birk Olesen, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141347	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we would very much like to make a simplification of capital taxation in Denmark and also to have a lower capital tax in Denmark. It would be good for the Danish economy, it would be good for the companies, it would be good for the entire Danish society. We have not yet been able to obtain support for this from a majority in the Folketing and, in the absence of that support, we agree with this proposal which relaxes the taxation of certain equity investors. It does a bit of what we would like to do, and that is why we can of course agree with it. But basically, this is a plaster on a wound, instead of doing what is right, namely a fundamental change in the structure of capital taxation in Denmark. But let me also say that there is another reason why we support this. There is, of course, a very great inequality in Danish society in the way that some pay incredibly much in taxes, while others pay nothing at all in taxes. It is not just in crowns and ears, it is also the case that some pay a very high percentage of their income in tax, and others pay a much lower percentage of their income in tax. We think that is an inequality that should be addressed. It's way too big. We are therefore pleased that this proposal gives some of the people who pay a lot of tax an opportunity to pay less in tax through a share savings account and thus reduces the inequality in tax payments in Danish society, which is so great. We shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141545	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141554	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the debate and thank you for the largely positive reception of the proposal here. I believe that sometimes when we as a minority government have to make finance laws, agreements are made on the side of the Finance Act, which helps to ensure that the very many other good ideas that have been spent weeks and sometimes months discussing can also be realised. And that's the kind of situation you're in here. So those who have sometimes been in government have experienced this kind of situation, and there's really no reason to hide that. That is the way politics is sometimes. During the calendar year 2019 the Danes had the first opportunity to save through the share savings account by investing free funds in quoted stock and investment certificates. After all, the purpose of introducing the share savings account was to get more Danes to invest in quoted shares in order to strengthen, as has also been suggested, a Danish stock culture. By raising the ceiling to DKK 100,000. is intended to create an even greater incentive for Danish savers to invest via the share savings account, so that we can achieve a better stock culture in Denmark, as we have seen in our neighbouring countries. The second part of the proposal aims to correct the unintentional abolition of tax freedom by investing in Danish UCITS which invest only in bonds. By reintroducing tax freedom for this type of investment, we are restoring the legal position that it appeared before the adoption of Law No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Tax exemption applies to foreign investors and Danish UCITS which invest in Danish UCITS with minimum taxation, which invest only in bonds. This part of the bill is also intended to adjust the withholding tax rate so that the dividend tax contained is equivalent to the final tax. In this way, we avoid applying for a refund of otherwise too much tax. With these adjustments, we ensure that investments through a so-called purely bond-based UCITS can provide a sensible alternative to investing directly in Danish bonds and also in relation to the choice of other types of investment. Thank you for your support for the proposal. I look forward to further work on the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141843	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141846	Thank you. It was just to clarify whether it is the Minister's belief that this proposal in isolation increases inequality or reduces inequality in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141857	I think it's too early to say anything about that. It depends on how it is used. There is no doubt that if there are more ordinary people who invest their savings in this, it is one of the things that will create more equality in tax payments in Danish society. It is something that helps to ensure more equality, but it is also clear that when you look at the development of what has been so far, you can see who is investing in this. It is probably primarily people in the higher part of the income groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141930	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141932	Thank you for that answer. Could we not have a written answer as to whether this proposal in isolation would increase the inequality of the Gini coefficient so that we can have it confirmed or denied? I would like a written answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141946	We respond at any time to all the questions that are being asked in the Folketing, so you can just ask that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141951	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423141953	I just wanted to know if I could get an answer and get rid of the confusion I have about this. The press release of 29 November 2018 aims to reduce inequality in Denmark. It is proposed that there should be no increase in the ceiling for the share savings account, and it is said that it is not about the ability to make money or that there should be no differences, but the differences should not be too great, and that is why our proposal is primarily about countering developments that undermine our trust and social contract. So it was to reduce the inequality. It would be too big if you raised the ceiling. Now you raise the ceiling and say the opposite. I don't understand the logic of that. What is it that makes the Social Democrats turn on a plate and think that raising the ceiling on the share savings account is a good proposal in which, before the elections, it was said that it was something that could contribute to increasing distrust in our society and questioning our social contract because inequality becomes too great? Now you do the opposite. Where do we have the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142054	Social democracy is where social democracy has always stood, also in relation to the press release, and this is linked to what I started by saying: as a minority government, it is sometimes the case that one is brought into a situation where views which, in popular terms, have not even been actively put forward in the past, and perhaps even opposed, one may have to implement some of them. From the many years when the Danish People's Party was a parliamentary basis for the former bourgeois government, I can mention a whole series of cases in which one has been asked to implement something that one did not immediately like. I remember, for example, that there was a tax reduction on the registration tax on private aircraft. I am not quite sure that it was something that the Danish People's Party thought was a good idea. But there is so much in politics, and sometimes you have to see politics as what it is, a work of opportunity, and that is what we have come up with here. By the way, we have made a fantastic financial law, which in a lot of areas such as tax control, which we are discussing these days, is an expression of a clear change of direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142203	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142205	Oh, my gosh, you got started with the outside talk of a question you didn't really like to answer. Who put the Social Democrats in this situation? There is no agreement text. It's not part of the Finance Act. After all, no one is forcing the Socialists to vote in favour of this. I understand that if you make a deal, you get some things to agree to something else. That's the rules of democracy in here. But there is no agreement, of which the Socialists are part, that they should vote in favour of raising the ceiling on a share savings account. You were against it before the election, and now you're turned on a plate and you say you've been tied to the mast. You're not. What has done to put people in that situation? The parliamentary basis votes against it. It's not part of the Finance Act. After all, no one binds the Social Democrats. The minister can vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142245	He could, but he is also a man who keeps the agreements that have been made and that agreement has been made with a single party which is on the parliamentary basis and which was positive about it. I don't think there's any reason to hide it. That's politics. One can hear that politics is also the way for the Danish People's Party, all the time that the Danish People's Party has now abandoned the agreement. That's it, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær stood and said up here from Parliament's platform before. So sometimes we, as politicians, are brought into this situation, and here is an example of it. There are plenty of examples of this. The great aim is then in the service of the good cause here that we have got through a fantastic financial law with the parliamentary basis that we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142328	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142330	I am also very curious to hear what has happened. For as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær points out that there is nothing in the financial agreement that the government should do this. The Finance Act Parties Enhedslisten and SF • vote against at least Enhedslisten. So, the Radical Left has said to the government: either you are doing this here, or in the Radical Left we are putting forward a proposal in the Assembly hall together with the bourgeois parties in the hope that the Danish People's Party will also support it? And then the government gets pressured into it by a majority bypassing the government. Is that the background? Because there's nothing in the Finance Act, I understand. Otherwise, the Enhedslisten would not be able to vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142416	We have an excellent dialogue with our parliamentary basis, and this is proof that we find solutions together. We do not need to hold press meetings and stand with stubborn eyes and talk about tax relief, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party at one point had. We don't need that. We talk about things together, find solutions and find good agreements which benefit Denmark and which, fortunately, represent a change of direction in relation to the policy pursued at the time. Ole Birk Olesen was in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142449	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142450	Yeah, it's fine. I just think it's interesting that the tax minister keeps talking about the financial bill. Then I think that what has happened there is that Radicals have demanded that this should be done in the Financial Law Agreement. Then Enhedslisten has sat and said: under no circumstances will we be involved in that. Then the government has said: okay, then we'll just make such an agreement under the table that the government puts it in the Chamber, and then radicals and the blue parties can vote for it. The Enhedslisten has allowed that toilet agreement to be made in the finance negotiations. As long as they don't have to vote for it, they've allowed this to happen anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142531	It's just before I call on you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen to go back to his old profession as a journalist. There are plenty of opportunities to write political comments and process history about this. I think it would be really good if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen with similar energy will enter into what we have done, namely a fantastic financial law agreement, which this in isolation has nothing to do with, but it helped to ensure that we could get the full financial law agreement through. That's politics, and that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142610	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142611	Thank you. I take it at face value when the Minister says he cannot judge whether this leads to greater inequality or greater equality now. But then I would ask that we get such an assessment after a year has passed. How did that actually work? Can I get an assurance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142630	Of course, we can deliver that easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142633	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments, and so we thank the Minister for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142650	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142710	Thank you for the floor, President. The Danish social model is based to a large extent on trust and trust that central social institutions such as the tax administration, health care, the police solve their tasks properly. And that is why the Social Democrats went to the polls to strengthen our tax administration, and we have this promise with the Finance Act for this year fulfilled. By 2020, money is secured for the first 250 controllers, and they are now being addressed in two new centres in Fredericia and Frederikssund respectively. It is a very important first step towards stricter control of those who cheat. However, if we are to restore confidence in our tax system, and we must do so, it is very much linked to the fact that we are also managing debt. There is no doubt that we are facing major challenges, and if we do not do something new and something else, the debt will continue to rise. Since the EFI recovery system was suspended in 2014, several legislative measures have been taken to restore the public debt recovery. In 2017, the government then entered into an agreement to strengthen the public debt collection together with a broad majority in the Folketing. Following that agreement, it has become necessary to implement rules aimed at supporting the clean-up work. The rules must include: make as many claims as possible so-called conversion preparations so that they can be transferred to and recovered effectively via the new recovery system PSRM. The draft law is made up of a number of technical elements. It is proposed, among other things, that: an extension of the clean-up period and that we change the rules on reminder procedures and notification to the debtor and his or her possibility of obsolescence • changes that take into account the situations in which data from claimants may be incorrect. In exceptional cases, the Debt Board will be able not to impose a reminder fee, and there will also be a simplification of the rules on remuneration by offsetting payments with public debt. Finally, it is also proposed to introduce the right of deduction for senior members' contributions into unemployment funds. However, this proposal does not concern the clean-up work in the area of debt, but has nevertheless been included as part of this legislative proposal. Of course, the social democracy supports the entire bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142944	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423142957	This bill is a follow-up to the agreement on the strengthening of public debt collection from 8 June 2017, concluded by almost all parties of the Folketing. A great deal of work has been undertaken to clean up the public debt. In the context of this work, it has been found that there is a need for new rules to support the clean-up work. make as many claims as possible conversion ready to be transferred to and potentially recovered more effectively through the new PSRM recovery system. This concerns, among other things: on rules postponing the limitation period of debt during recovery and extending the parallel operating period during which recovery is carried out in several systems. The aim is to avoid the obsolescence of debts resulting from the fact that the clean-up work has proved significantly more difficult than provided. The draft law will improve future recovery efficiency and support the clean-up and conversion of debts and will contribute to more money in the Treasury, and hopefully there will be a restoration of confidence in the tax system. The bill also contains a proposal to introduce the right of deduction of senior members' contributions into unemployment funds. The introduction of the right to deduct will support the desire and the ability of folk pensioners to remain members of an unemployment fund which can offer assistance in job search, etc. and thus provide support for staying or returning to the labour market. It is in itself a very sensible proposal, and since we want people to stay a little longer on the labour market, that is something we in the Left can support. At the same time, I should like to greet the good Conservatives and say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143150	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143159	Thank you. We have now stood in this Chamber many times before to deal with debt recovery cases. You can see in the bill that this is the tenth bill. Of course, this does not make it any less serious, because there have been massive challenges with debt recovery in Denmark, and I really think that a lot of the Danes are sitting moony out there looking at the debt just rising and rising, and that the opposite does not fall and people are going to pay what they should. So we're working on that, among other things. with this bill, which is, of course, about cleaning up the old debts. This is already under way, but in short, it is a question of finding out the legality of old debts before they can be converted into the new system, and there is this bill part of it to ensure that you can carry out that task; it has taken longer than was originally planned. One of the measures is to extend the limitation period of debts during the recovery period. As far as I remember, it was 3 years, I think we postponed it in the first place, and now it is postponed by a few more years, so you have some time to run on to get the job done. If you do not do so, you will find that many of the debts, you can say, go beyond the rear edge and simply disappear, or that at least you would have to spend excessive resources on constantly breaking off debt, and that is not very practical either. There's a lot of good moves in this, which helps to get you through these old posts. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party fully support. I would also just like to say that, overall, it is absolutely crucial that we have a well-functioning recovery system, so even if we are in favour of legal certainty, when we say yes to these measures, it is only more important that we have a recovery system that works, that people are once again experiencing the fact that they are going to pay for what they have to do. In fact, I fear more that there may be a tax morality that crumbles. One thing is the debt recovery. Another thing is the tax on dividends. There are many things that we have experienced that people are looking back at and thinking: why should I pay my taxes when I can see that everyone else is getting away from it? Of course they don't, that means they won't. But that is what we have in mind from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, namely that it is simply so crucial that we restore this area, so we support the proposal. Then there is another element that I would like to mention briefly, and it is a question of introducing the right of deduction for senior membership of an unemployment fund, which I also think is quite reasonable. It has actually been in demand for a number of years, so it is certainly positive, and we fully support it being included in this bill. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143430	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143440	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we also support this proposal in the Radical Left. The debt recovery to the public sector is a huge area and is extremely paradoxical. Should debtors be released if they have no ability to pay at all? Can you make it with a payment order? Can we write off debts, etc.? We're going to deal with this area a lot of times. It is, of course, the case that you may experience it as a little paradoxical that the debtors actually put in all sorts of leghold traps to avoid paying off their debts to the public. However, where we should at least have no obstacles, the Debt Board is legally speaking. So we can at least do it by eliminating everything that might be of technicalities and legalities, so that we can at least get to the end of the task that lies with us. So, of course, this is a very good proposal. We also support the second part of the proposal, which deals with the right of deduction for seniors' membership of A-banks. After all, there are a great many seniors who, after their retirement age, are also on the labour market, and they want to have the same opportunities to be entitled to unemployment benefit as everyone else in the labour market. It is, of course, a strange discrimination which has existed for a very long time, and it is therefore very good that we should clear it up. I can mention as a curiosity that the Elders Case is, of course, the largest association or lobby organisation in Denmark. I don't know anyone else that big. The Older Case is really, really happy about this and has been advocating it for a long time. In my own municipality there are 40,000 inhabitants, and there are 10,000 members of the Elders Case, so that is a quarter of the municipality's inhabitants. So I'll be popular when I get home, if we vote this through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143631	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143637	Thank you. The main content of the bill here is a longer series of simplifications etc. in relation to debt recovery. The SF is part of the agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery from 2017, which agreed to address a number of problems in this area. There are, for example: the postponement of certain limitation periods for debts in order to avoid undue obsolescence of debts. This is justified by the fact that the clean-up work has proved to be considerably more difficult and time-consuming than provided. We basically think that these are some good changes that lie in the proposal here and we support it. It is important that we provide the best possible conditions for the recovery of debts. In addition, it is proposed to introduce the right of deduction for senior members' contributions into unemployment funds. This does not really have much to do with what this proposal otherwise contains, but when you look at how many legal proceedings we have in the field of taxation, for example. Today, you understand that you have to pool things a little sometimes. The draft law estimates that there are no significant revenue implications for the introduction of the right to deduct here, and we note that, and we also think it sounds like a sensible approach. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143744	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423143749	Thank you. To put it straight away: the Enhedslisten supports the proposal, but we are not doing it with pleasure. For the background is really tragic: Massive savings and organisational and IT chaos have thrown our recovery system into a death struggle that just continues year after year. It is some time since the nominal value of the arrears reached 100 billion. kr. This is totally unacceptable and one of the many negative consequences of the fact that successive governments for many years destroyed SKAT by saving and saving SKAT to pieces and making endless restructurings that destroyed the entire administration. Basically, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that the time has long since come to start hiring more people to handle the public arrears manually. The longer we wait for the new PSRM recovery system to work fully, the more the arrears will grow. Let us now hire some more people for the recovery. So one does not exclude the other. We can easily make good IT solutions, but now that we have repeatedly seen that IT systems are more than challenged, let us try to use other solutions at the same time. Due to the IT challenges, we need to constantly make comprehensive regulatory adjustments to the legal basis. This means that a heel must be cut and a toe cut in proportion to what is actually reasonable for the sake of an IT system. If I may just quote a few pieces of gold from the comments: •In order to ensure proper management of the cover order, it is proposed to introduce a legal basis for placing the previously converted claims in the cover order on the date of receipt recorded in the recovery system, regardless of the fact that this date of receipt may be a misregistered date. Yes, please. Well, we know that the date is wrong, but we have to take a big look at that, otherwise it will not work in the IT system. Or what about this: After the split, the Recovery Authority will no longer be able to identify the main claim to which the interest and fees were originally related. It will therefore be the responsibility of the claimant to ensure that claims which have to be treated together in the context of collection are also treated together by the claimant after a transfer. Well, here's the thing: It's basically not very appropriate to lose any connection, between what's outstanding and what's run on interest and fees. But these are just a few examples; there are also other elements in the comments that could have been highlighted. As far as seniors in the labour market are concerned, it is fine to deduct from the cash-flow quota what else it has to do with this. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten will vote with no pleasure in favour of the proposal because it is necessary. It is unhappy, but we are voting in favour of it because it is necessary and because it is a major priority for us to get recovery back on track in the near future. But there are elements in this that we are going to look at in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144043	Thank you. After all, we have rules for reading quotes, but I think it remained within the norm, and it was effective at least. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144053	Thank you. I just have to take some water for a split second there I simply agreed with Enhedslisten, and that can scare anyone. But you're absolutely right. It's not that I don't like technology and new data and all these things, but I might be a little old-fashioned in this area too, and it's not that we have to go back to the old days when a note was hanged up in the Usage or in front of the tax office about who owed money and so on. But I like the idea of making it more decentralized. In fact, I believe, just as when you make power decentralized and get it close to the citizens, that when you do it by charging debts close to the citizens, it will also become more effective. So I like the idea that we might be putting more of this out to municipalities or other things, in other words, decentralized. They have actually shown that they can do some of these tasks in connection with some of this. So the thought of maybe making it more central, I like. Then I know that this proposal is about an IT data system and then just some deductions for some older people. But basically we support this proposal too, because it is such a very technical IT system that has to be arranged. But the basic idea of moving debt recovery out more decentralisedly, I think, is exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144218	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144225	The Liberal Alliance can also support the bill. There is no reason for me to repeat all the good arguments. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144233	Thank you, and then it's the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144239	Thank you for that and thank you for your support for the proposal. It is clear, as has also been pointed out today, that most of the work in this Chamber at the moment is about the terrible situation we are facing, both for Danish economy and for Danish employees, in the light of the spread of the corona virus. That is why I am very pleased and would like to acknowledge that, despite the serious situation we are in, we also have the time and the surplus to look at some of the other serious problems that exist for our society. There is no doubt that it is essential that we look at the recovery of public debt. It is vital that we ensure that this momentum, which, after all, has been in recent times in this area, is continued to ensure that we can have a recovery which helps to support everyone's response. This is particularly true in the times we are in at the moment. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today is important because it is necessary to support the clean-up work under the closed-down recovery system, the EFI, in order to ensure more effective recovery. As has also been stated, the draft law has been tabled following the agreement to strengthen the public debt recovery of June 2017, which was concluded by a unanimous Parliament. Although there are still major problems in the area of recovery, there are, in fact, also bright points in the efforts we are behind here in the Danish Parliament on the road to recovery of the debt to the public sector. The new recovery system is largely complete. The main recovery steps are system-supported and already put into use in the Debt Authority, and this is positive. It is also positive that, so far, over 300 public creditors are connected to the new recovery system and can now send unpaid recovery claims. However, a major task still remains to prepare the bulk of the total debt mass for recovery. Large parts of the debt in the old recovery system are affected by data errors. For example, there may be doubts as to when the debt has been established or whether the same debt has been submitted several times by a creditor. The data problems may be due to doubts as to the validity of the debt due to errors in the EFI system and also the creditors' systems and practices in the submission of debt items for recovery, including from the tax administration itself. Common to all these mistakes is that they require clean-up in the debt mass. The main purpose of the clean-up effort is to prepare the debt to be transferred to the new recovery system and, in secondary terms, to increase the share of the debt, which is thus contained in the current DMI system, and to prepare it for recovery. The cleanup can be done both by a manual review of the debt and by an automated remedying of the errors we see now. A comprehensive clean-up of debt to the public sector has already been carried out since 2018 in order to correct data errors and to clarify doubts about the legal force of debt items, as stated in the language we use in this area. The clean-up work has proved to be considerably more difficult and time-consuming than provided, and further action is therefore needed in order to move forward with the large and necessary task in this area. Back to the bill we are discussing today: the draft law has, among other things, been adopted. aim to support the further cleanup efforts so that cleanup can be carried out in the most effective way. The draft law is therefore an important step towards debt with a market value of up to 18 billion. kr. potentially can be transferred to more efficient recovery in the new recovery system. The proposed amendments shall take into account, inter alia: aim to postpone the limitation period of debts during recovery and extend the parallel operating period during which recovery takes place in several systems for a further three years. In addition, as has also been suggested, it proposes a relaxation of the requirement of normal reminder procedure and notification to debtors of the transfer to recovery, such as: a missing address of the debtor does not prevent the debt being transferred for recovery. It is also necessary to lay down rules on objections to obsolescence in order to prevent a debtor from following, for example: 15 years may claim that a debt item is obsolete and is correct because the evidence of a obsolescence step is no longer available. Furthermore, the draft law contains rules that allow the recovery of debts where there is doubt as to whether a date is correct, but in a way that does not place the debtor at a disadvantage. Finally, it proposes simplification of the recovery process, adaptation of rules for IT support, and that the Debt Board may refrain from imposing reminder fees if this is unreasonable. In addition to the proposed changes in the area of recovery, the draft law also contains, as has been suggested, a proposal to introduce an equational deduction for senior members' quotas into unemployment funds. That's all. Thank you very much for a very positive reception. There is no doubt that, for the first part, many hours are waiting for us to spend together to hopefully restore our area of recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144840	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200423144852	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 24 April 2020 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
