ParlaMint-DK_20201222090020	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 130 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Assisted Reproduction for Treatment, Diagnostics and Research, etc.) Bill No. L 134 (Proposal for a law on epidemics, etc.) Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. 131 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Tax of Water Supply and the Law on Water Supply, etc.) Bill No. L 133 (Proposal for a Law amending the Boat of Death Code and the Law on withholding tax. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 132 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and various other laws. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the identification of the consequences of queue driving). On 21 December the Committee on the Rules of Procedure delivered a report on the establishment of a form of inquiry with special parliamentary support. 3). The report will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk The titles of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20201222090136	I would point out that both amendments and proposals can be commented on and that it will also be possible to comment on the legislation on the expenditure ceiling, i.e. L 2 and L 3. The Minister for Finance has informed me that he wishes to take Amendment No. 116, 128, 133, 134, 226, 234, 236, 237, 245, 248, 270, 271, 355, 570, 572, 588, 590-602 and 604 remain. Does anyone wish to maintain these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. I would say that today we have a long day ahead of us, and if it is the case that you cannot just sit in your place because we would like to have a chair between you and me, then if you want the floor, you can just move to your place and make sure that there is a good distance. And I hope that you will go up to the platform through the ramp and down here towards the Members' seats, and that when you've been on the platform and finished, you're gonna get drunk. In those words, the debate is open. That's how it is, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222090255	Thank you. 2020 has been the year of tribulation and victims, a year in which life and life's work are lost to the global pandemic, but also a year in which the tribulations have shown us and the rest of the world what a society and what a community we are. Last Friday the Danish words of the year were voted by the Danish Language Board. It is a long tradition that we have in Denmark to pronounce the words of the year. In the bud this year was among other things. Elbow salute and bodegavirologist. It wasn't either of the two words that ran with the victory. Instead, it did community mind. It is a word that sums up very precisely, I think, the many thousands of actions and non-actions, victims, smiles, telephone calls, Teams meetings and heroic deeds, which together have resulted in Denmark standing here in the midst of the battle against corona in a better place socially, economically and healthily than most other countries. The director of the Danish Language Board, Thomas Hestbæk Andersen, explained in connection with the publication of the year's words how the concept of community mind has aroused awareness in a world where corona has led to division rather than unity in several places. Among other things: English BBC wrote in connection with the declaration of the year's words: A word buried in the history books has mobilized the Danes through the pandemic and helped the country to flatten the curve and lift the community spirit. I think the BBC is right. I believe that our strong community and our trust society are the main reason why Denmark has done well through the first part of the pandemic. And I also believe that here we have the recipe to deal with the next hard blow to Corona being fought right now. Just as the Danes, who are the most, pay their taxes every day, everyone responds and makes an extra effort for the community, just as the Danes and Danish companies during the corona crisis have been ready to expose their own needs to public health in full assurance that others will do the same. Companies have maintained employees even though the order books were empty. The Danes have supported expensive help packages for needed companies. Hundreds of thousands have worked at home, and virtual communities have emerged that have kept the worst solitude from the door for many people. Health workers across the country have put their own health at risk to save others. All these sacrifices are trusted and based on trust that others are ready to make the same sacrifices in order to stop the infection. The mutual trust that has made Denmark one of the world's richest, most equal and happiest societies has thus also had a decisive influence on the success of our community in taking up the battle against corona. I am proud to live in a country where socialism rather than division characterises our fight against corona, but it is also an approach that places considerable demands on us here at Christiansborg. Our social spirit is largely a consequence of our social model, a social model based on a balanced and socially responsible policy in which a competitive economy, an educational system with free access and a strong welfare state have created both prosperity and equality. The task here at Christiansborg will therefore be, for our part, to formulate a crisis policy that simultaneously strengthens our social model; restrictions are put in place effectively when necessary; the bill for the crisis is lifted in solidarity; and that ensures that on the other side of the Corona crisis we are both stronger and greener than we did when we entered. That is the objective of the 2021 Finance Act, which, if anything, is a Corona Finance Act. In the area of welfare, we are continuing recovery. We have had a right to a previous pension, Arnepensionen, and with the Finance Act we are strengthening the welfare that makes a concrete difference in everyday life. This is done with a substantial increase in education, more educators and about 2 billion. kr. for more hands and higher professionalism in the care of the elderly. I suppose that happens after we have covered the growing cost requirements of municipal and regional agreements, which result from the fact that, fortunately, in Denmark, we are becoming both more children and more older. When the corona hit, 78,000 Danes lost their jobs, but because we had effectively reduced the infection and because of an active fiscal policy and comprehensive aid packages adopted with broad settlements, 51,000 of the affected unemployed are now back in employment. But there are still approx. 30,000 fewer Danes in employment right now than there were at the same time last year. Therefore, the task remains to ensure a green reboot of Denmark. The overall effect of stimuli packages is that we create 14,000 new Danish jobs in 2021, without raising taxes and taxes. Overall, crisis policy holds hands under 80 000 Danish jobs this year and 55 000 jobs next year. We're gonna set up 2 billion. kr. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life. Then we help those who have been hit hardest quickly in new work. In addition, we provide a boost to the experience economy of 750 million. kr., so that on the other side of the restrictions we can help the hotels, restaurants, theatres, cinemas and a variety of other cultural offers that are currently going through a very, very hard and dark time. Finally, we set aside 4 billion. kr. to green initiatives that, on the one hand, create green jobs and, on the other hand, help Denmark to realise one of the world's most ambitious climate policies, namely the 70-percent reduction by 2030. Denmark must be stronger and greener when we are on the other side of the crisis. The Finance Act contributes to that. The lesson of the financial crisis was that those countries that did too little to stimulate the economy, or because of unwise and ideological tax cuts, were forced to make cuts while unemployment was still too high, were left with a lasting loss of prosperity. That is why we are doing everything we can right now to stimulate the economy. We set aside money to renovate general housing, schools and institutions. We provide subsidies for green investments and much, much more. We clean up generational pollution and take care of our nature and our environment. It is wise temporary expenditure that goes to the limit right now, but that is to say it stays within the limits of the budget law, and in this way we create jobs here and now, while at the same time, when it comes to new, permanent and permanent expenditures, such as the right to an early pension, we are of course financing the costs of crowns, precisely so that we do not end up in the same place, where we were faced with the financial crisis, where significant cuts had to be made already in 2010 in order to make everything work together in the long run. We are investing wisely now, but with a plan for how the economy will balance in 2025. This is the responsible balance of the government's economic policy. 2020 has been an exceptionally hard year. Unfortunately, it will be the beginning of 2021 too. My heart is bleeding for the young people who have been robbed so unfairly because of corona, and for all those people who, as a result of illness or age-related weakening, have been isolated for almost a year. We have asked the weak to be strong, knowing that we really asked for too much, but it has been necessary. I am extremely nervous about what corona can mean for learning, for loneliness, for our psychic well-being and for the lives of families where there were already social problems. In other words, monumental tasks await when these difficult times are over. One afternoon in May, when I went home from work and left Christiansborg, there was a small painted stone on Christiansborg's large staircase. On the stone the kindergarten Væksthus had written a greeting to us. It said it's gonna be okay. That is what has become the motto of hope during this crisis. I believe in the children of the kindergarten Vewerhouse. I believe it's gonna be okay. But before it does, a hard fight against the corona awaits us. Luckily, we know the recipe. The recipe is to show community mind. Socialism is our most important weapon in the fight against corona. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091307	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief comments. We've got 45 minutes, and first it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091316	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I believe I share the view that 2020 has been a difficult year also politically. And then the rapporteur says that we are now looking into 2021 and that it also looks difficult. I guess that could be very true. But what I am concerned about is that I have to understand that the government, and hence the Social Democratic Party, have declared that reforms have to be made for those around there. 11,000 in extraordinary labour supply. When and how will the Social Democratic Party present those ideas to the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091355	Thank you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen for that question, and thank you for mentioning my speech. It is the case that at the moment, as I also mentioned, we are still in a very serious economic crisis that has hit our economy. I think so, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen is painfully aware of this. The most important challenge we are facing right now is unemployment. The most important and urgent challenge is not that the labour market lacks hands; it is that there are hands that have been sent home and that cannot work. I have read that the Left is talking about how it should pay to work. I think this is a pretty crazy claim in these times, and I think you should go to the airport and tell the people who have been sent home that they have been sent home because it has to pay to work. That is a wrong approach to the issue. So the most important challenge at the moment is to ensure that people get back to work. However, it is clear that in the longer term we also have a task to ensure that more people contribute to the working community. That is why we have started work on second-generation reforms, and that is why we will also, at some point next year, be discussing what concrete solutions are needed to bring more people into the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091501	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091504	Well, I'm also sorry that this government has sent so many thousands of people into unemployment. It's not the government's fault alone. But it is also sad, and we can come back to that later. However, I think it may be a little strange that one does not want to answer the question, not so much in relation to myself and the Left, but in relation to the Radical Left, which one would understand made this wish part of the financial law we are discussing here today. After all, this is a financial law debate. That is why we allow ourselves to ask about the Finance Act, although I am in favour of the rapporteur touching quite a lot of things other than the Financial Law Agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091545	Now I think I should take a deep breath early in this debate before answering that question. The fact that the rapporteur of the Left today claims that it is the government that has sent people into unemployment makes me so angry that I actually have to fight a little to preserve the Constitution. We have jointly adopted aid packages which, when they were at their highest, ensured that more than 250 000 people could continue to be in work and we have adopted policies which will hold hands next year under around 80 000 jobs. I think it's tangled to be obscene.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091626	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091629	Thank you. Unfortunately, like the previous rapporteur, I cannot begin by expressing my thanks for the speech. Well, what's the government gonna do when Corona's over? How, then, will politics be pursued? You put it in front of everything. Everything you decide is corona-related. But the rapporteur forgot the mink and the people of the lake and others in his speech. I would like to deal with the budget law for 2021 • that is what we are discussing today • and it is not a Corona Finance Act; there is not one measure here that deals with corona as such. The election was that a strict foreign policy would be pursued, but there is not much foreign policy in the 2021 Finance Act. However, I can see that the government has financed that quota refugees are going to Denmark. You will take up to 500 quota refugees to Denmark, and with family reunifications it will be 2,000-2,500, and soon we can also see the second generation, etc. etc. Why is it that the government, on the one hand, says that a strict immigration policy is being pursued and, on the other hand, that it finances increased immigration, increased Muslim immigration into Denmark, with the budget law for 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091738	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091742	That's right, sir. René Christensen, that the Finance Act is not the law where we make foreign policy measures, but I can of course guarantee the Danish People's Party and others who have to listen to the government stand guard over a strict and responsible immigration policy. We have proved this with numerous initiatives over the past year. Then it is also true that we are responsible for allocating an amount to finance the fact that we are taking quota refugees, but Mr. René Christensen knows quite well that the fact that we finance is not equal to that number. We have proved that this year, when the number was much lower. So says Mr. René Christensen, that it is not a Corona Finance Act. Then I do not think it has been listened to properly in connection with my speech, because what I spent the most time telling you was how to ensure by means of the Finance Act that people stay in work next year. That is the main objective of the Finance Act and that is why it is a Corona Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091843	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091846	It is not true that the Social Democratic Party does not use the Finance Act to make foreign policy. This was done for 2020, that is to say the year we are in now, because it was made easier on several points. It was made more attractive to come to Denmark, it was ensured that refugees and immigrants were given a greater amount of money available. Of course, we have also tabled amendments to roll back, and then we will see what the Social Democrats will vote for it when we come to that vote. But can the rapporteur not confirm that if this Finance Act goes through and the government hopes that its Finance Act will work as it should, then immigration to Denmark will increase, that is, with the Finance Act being passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091925	No, you can't say anything about that. What we do responsibly is to ensure that there is funding to deal with quota refugees. But there is no mention of how many quota refugees we are going to take. And it can be said that under the current government, the number of refugees who have come to Denmark has been very, very low, also historically, and this is a consequence of the fact that we, together with the Danish People's Party, are watching for a responsible and strict and sensible immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222091957	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092001	Thanks for the speech. I remember when we were discussing the budget law for 2020, I was here in my place asking if it would not be okay to raise ambitions a little in relation to welfare. In the end, we were given a financial law that not only lived up to the demographic trait, but also to the full demographic trait, so that public consumption follows the growth of society so that the public sector does not lag behind. In fact, we had the same debate at first reading of the Finance Act this year. There was a proposal for a Finance Act that did not meet the full demographic move. But now we are actually faced with a financial law agreement which, again for the second year in a row, delivers on the full demographic trend. That's good, and it's gratifying. Then my question is: should we not make it the standard and the norm? Why lower the level of ambition next year? I can see, of course, from the plan called "DK2025," presented by the government, that the government is planning that the level of ambition for welfare should be lower in the coming years. But since things have gone so well in the first two years, should we not raise the level of ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092107	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092111	It has gone well for the first two years and we must continue to invest in our welfare as a minimum so that we ensure that there is more money when, fortunately, there are more elderly and more children, but also gladly, so that we have the opportunity to put on top. The discussion that Mr. Rune Lund and I have, of course, about the demographic trait versus the full demographic trait. And what I've been saying to Mr. Simpson... Rune Lund, and I repeat, is that there is one demographic feature, and that is the formal one, and that is what is calculated over in the Ministry of Finance. That is what we are dealing with, and that is what we are committed to. But we are always ready, if the economy allows us to do so, to make sensible priorities, and very much willingly together with Enhedslisten. I think that and it's something like that, sir. Rune Lund also said at one point that there is a bit of a paradigm change in the finance laws we have made. People, the Danes, are used to receiving mild gifts in connection with the Finance Act. One has just been used to the fact that in the past few years, up to the Finance Laws, so many cuts were made that the gifts received in the Finance Act were, in effect, poorly filled up the gaps. It's over now. We are now laying the foundations for the regional and municipal agreements, and then we make real investments in improving welfare when we make the finance laws. That's good news.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092217	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092221	What is important is that there are two demographic features. There is the demographic trait where you just keep your skin on your nose when more young and older people arrive. But that also means that if we had only had the demographic trait since 1950 in our health services, we would have had a health care system that would probably have followed in relation to more young and older people, but we would have had the same quality in health care as in 1950. After all, the full demographic trait, or the prosperity-proof demographic trait, ensures that we keep up with it. That is why we need to get up to it, because that is the neutral starting point. Should that not be the aim of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092259	What we have committed ourselves to is covering the demographic trait. Of course, we will live up to that. But we also have an ambition to improve welfare. We've done that with the Enhedslisten. It is a cooperation which we have been unspeakably pleased with also working with the other parties, which form the parliamentary basis of the government. But it is clear that the economy must also be controlled. There's got to be a balance in this. That is why, on the one hand, we ensure that there is order in the finances, that we can afford the priorities we make and, on the other hand, that, when there is a chance, we make these investments in welfare, which in the long term will also make us richer when, for example, we invest in education and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092335	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092344	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the series of good agreements we have made together. Looking at the economy in the coming years, we need both money and people, and so I would like to ask the Social Democrats: will the Social Democrats help to make the decisions that need to be made so that we can both get more money and more people to be able to enjoy more welfare than just cover the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092407	Thank you very much to Mrs Lotte Rod for the question, and thank you for the receipt of the speech, and it also gives us the opportunity to thank the other way to the Radicals, who, in the context of the Finance Act and a large number of agreements, have proved ready to be a fully-fledged responsible party, which will ensure that we can make good agreements that will take Denmark forward and that we will also deal with the unemployment that is unfortunately the corona's companion. In terms of making Denmark richer and ensuring that more people enter the working community, we have a common challenge. It's also in the understanding paper. That is why we are also ready to take decisions that will ensure that more people become part of the working community. We have set up a commission headed by Professor Nina Smith to look at this issue, and some of what we need to solve is the challenge here that there are 50,000 young people outside both work and education. They must become part of the working community. We have immigrant women from non-western countries who are going to join the working community and a number of other challenges that we would like to solve together with the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092513	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092516	When do we see such a plan from the Social Democratic Party to get more people and more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092524	I believe that the challenges we have set ourselves to solve immigrant women who are too poorly associated with the labour market; young people; sick absence that is too high; more people who have to move from part-time to full-time are relatively fundamental challenges that many governments before us have had the ambition to solve, but which they have not really solved. That is why it is also important that we do it thoroughly and properly and that we let the Commission work. But it is our ambition that next year we will be able to present initiatives that will ensure that more Danes become part of the working community, which then means that we have better opportunities to prioritise, for example, welfare or the green one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092600	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092602	It is, after all, a good and progressive financial law that we are putting forward here together. So far, so good. But there are some areas where I would like to ask Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen tells us what the government's vision is. After all, the daily allowance has fallen hopelessly behind for years, and if it continues, in 2025 we will see that the daily allowance rate will be 44 per cent on average. of what an industrial worker earns. For how long can we continue to look at this, i.e. undermining one of the pillars of the labour market, the fact that we have a certain degree of security for the workers who make them willing to be flexible, what is then the basis for this dynamic economy and situation that we have in the labour market? What are the Social Democrats' ambitions for the level of unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092657	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge for the question, and many thanks to the SF for an excellent cooperation on the Finance Act and a number of the other agreements that we have debated this morning. In relation to the daily allowance, we have given priority to improving our benefit system. We, together with the SF, have abolished the residence requirement; it was implemented sensibly. We have ensured an increase in the daily allowance rate during training. And then we have again together made an improvement for those people who have worked the longest and hardest when we have secured a right to early retirement. These have been our priorities. When you have those priorities, and these are expensive priorities, right priorities, then at the same time we do not have the opportunity at the same time to finance a higher daily allowance rate. That's the honest answer. But it is a challenge that we are very aware of. What we can see, fortunately, is that the Danes are still away in the benefit system, that our flexicurity model works, but if you saw, for example, that there was a declining support for the benefit system, we would have another problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092803	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092806	I think that is a thin answer, please! For some of the explanation why this connection to the cashiers is still there is also that a number of cashiers build private wage insurance upstairs, i.e. that which, if I hear Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's answer is right, is a privatisation of security in Denmark. It's not gonna last. However, my second question must now be on something a little different, and that is: what is the ambition of the government to do away with the partner dependency which, in a totally outdated and impossible way, is undermining the economy of those people who, for example, are in a position to do so. is on an early retirement pension where, according to old-fashioned principles, the partner is allowed to finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092844	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092848	After all, we have a Commission which is currently working on our transfer system, and it is in line with that mapping that we can also discuss the last issue, as Mr. Karsten Hønge travels here. I do not think, and it is perhaps not surprising, that I gave a thin answer. It is possible that I gave an answer, as SF and Mr. Karsten Hønge does not agree, but I actually said very frankly, I think what we have prioritised and therefore what we do not currently have the opportunity to prioritise. I guess that's relatively honest talk. At the same time, I say that we are very aware of the fact that there is support for the benefit system, that we stand guard over our flexicurity model.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092923	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222092927	Thank you. I would like to ask the Social Democratic Party whether there are any items of expenditure where social democracy will spend less money. Public expenditure in Denmark is over 1 100 billion. DKK, and it's money that doesn't come by itself. It's money that comes because the Danes go to work every day and toil and drag billions of hours every year to put a whole lot of money into tax. I think we owe it to people to be careful about how to spend the money, and even if you want to spend a great deal of money, every year you have to make sure that the money is spent as well as possible. So are there some posts where Social Democracy will spend less money? And learned from the experience of discussing with socialists, I would like to make it clear that I am not asking whether there are any posts in which the Socialists will charge more money. I ask if there are any posts where they will spend less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093018	Thank you for the question. Yes, we have a clear ambition that we should spend less money on consultants and that we should spend less money on management reports and other things. There are tasks that require consultants, IT systems and other things, but we will spend less money on consultants, so that we can give more priority to and invest in welfare and education. Rasmus Jarlov is passionate about improving the conditions for, having access to a good infrastructure, to a digitalised society and to good training for their employees, so that we can afford those priorities. So that is a concrete ambition. Then, as far as our fiscal policy and our economy are concerned, I would say in general terms that we have said very clearly that we are now going to the limit of the budget law to boost the economy, but that we must have an economy that balances in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093111	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093114	If savings on consultants are like the one thing that Social Democrats can mention as one of the posts they want to spend less money on, when will there be any proposals for that? Because it is completely absent from the financial law of the year, and it was also in last year's Finance Act, as I remember. There are, in fact, no posts at all in the Finance Act where you save on anything. It is fair enough that a great deal of money will be spent, but I also believe that there is an obligation to ensure that the money is spent as well as possible. So when do we hear any of this high-profile promise to save on the consultants, which was also a huge battle number for the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093154	Well, we are making savings on consultants for the moment, and that is one of the things that ensures that we have the opportunity to make concrete priorities of welfare. With regard to savings in the situation we are in now, I have read with interest the draft Finance Bill of the Conservatives and, moreover, I would like to pay tribute to presenting such a proposal, which is also well worked out and where the money fits; other bourgeois parties might learn a little from that and I do not think it would be wise to implement that proposal, because the savings in welfare, for example, which the Conservatives are proposing, would be biased in relation to equality, but would also mean that we would not get the economy going and get people into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093228	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093231	Thank you. We have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark. We pay the world's highest taxes. Yet it is not enough. It is not enough for politicians, it is not enough for the government, so you are indebted to the Danes. So my question to the rapporteur must be: how do you explain to the Danes that they will have to be owed when you give Denmark's Radio 901 million? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093259	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for that question. After all, the situation is that we are being hit by a pandemic which has very, very severe consequences for our economy and which creates very, very high levels of unemployment if nothing is done. In other words, there are basically two choices. It is possible not to borrow these very large aid packages. This would mean that unemployment would rise dramatically, certainly with perhaps up to 300,000 Danes, and that would mean that our social expenditure would increase significantly. So in addition to the fact that it is of course a disaster for the individual family, our expenses would rise very, very significantly, and then we would be in a situation where we had both a higher debt and a higher unemployment. Now we are instead in a situation where, yes, we have a slightly higher sovereign debt, but still away from the lowest in the world, and at the same time have invested wisely, so that people maintain their work so that, in the long run, we can maintain companies' investment, maintain our wealth and thus finance our well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093402	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093405	It was a minute of pure christiansborgsnik talk. I am asking a specific question. We have the highest taxes in the world. It's not enough for the government. They say to the Danes: We have to owe you, and while we owe you, we choose to give the 901 million. kr., with which we owe you, directly to Danmarks Radio. So I just ask the rapporteur: do you think it is okay to owe the Danes and give the money to journalists out in DR? Because that's what you've done, so don't do everything else, the other story. I ask a specific question: does the government think it is okay to owe the Danes and give the money to the journalists out in the DR?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093437	It may work on facebook videos and other things to accuse colleagues of chatting. In other words, what I did was quite fair to explain why it makes sense to make loan-financed investments to save jobs and why one could very easily have been in a situation where the debt had been increased and, at the same time, unemployment had been lost if nothing had been done. The fact that you do not agree politically with the answer is not the same as the fact that it is nonsense. But, sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen himself is answerable for. The long-term expenditure under the Finance Act is not, after all, debt-financed. They are financed crown to crown, so the economy is balanced. But it is true that we increase the debt a little bit to ensure that people stay at work. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093513	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093516	Thank you. You know, community mind is that you don't just think about yourself, but you think about the whole community you're part of when you act. For a government, this means that we are not only concerned with what we might call electoral profits, but also about making long-term decisions which are the right ones for the country. Now we know from former Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon that this government is not so much concerned with making the right decisions for the country, but more thinking in communication and electoral profit. So my question is this: do you not have a little bad taste in your mouth when you talk so much about socialism while making the country poorer in the long term? And here's where you're going, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen doesn't talk about how the business cycle affects Denmark, how it affects the economy, that you take loans and spend the money now that the loans have to be paid back later. No, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has to respond to what is going on here about the policy you are pursuing and the structures you are creating for society, where with this finance law you reduce the number of people working in Denmark by 10,000 people and thus make Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093623	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093626	I think sir... Ole Birk Olesen has to ask the questions, and then I have to take care of the answers. I guess it's the division of labour that's when we have these séances. I actually very much agree with Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen's description of what society's mind is. I think we have a little disagreement as to how this should be implemented politically. I can, of course, completely reject the fact that the government is primarily concerned with electoral profit and communication. We are thinking primarily of getting the Danes and Denmark as well and safely through the Corona crisis as possible. I also note that the Danes largely support the solutions we have chosen, and I note that a broad Parliament is ready to take responsibility. I'm very, very happy about that. As far as the structural question is concerned, you can have this accounting approach to our Arnepension, for example, that if you look at it in isolation, it has a consequence for the supply of work. But you have to look at it broadly, because it is Arnepensionen and the fact that we are helping people who have been the longest in the labour market to get a previous withdrawal that guarantees the foundations of the welfare agreement, which is the biggest independent contribution to our having a good economy in Denmark. So you have to raise your head a little bit and raise your eyes a little bit and see it a little more overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093736	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093739	I'm not the only one who says that. It is, of course, an acquaintance of the Social Democratic Party, one who has been in internal meetings with, among other things. Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Finance, etc., where people have spoken openly because there were no cameras and microphones on and, frankly, what they wanted to say. And such an acquaintance of the Social Democratic Party and of the people who are in the leadership of the Social Democratic Party says: The people who are in the leadership of the Social Democratic Party today, among other things. Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, are some who care about communication and spin and such things and do not care so much about making the right decisions for the country. So my question is, is it community mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093815	If the government alone cared about communication and electoral profit, it would not be community mind. However, a government such as the Socialist, which is doing everything it can to increase its test capacity and ensure the treatment of our corona patients, and which allocates 4 billion. kr. in a pool to deal with unforeseen expenses next year as a result of corona, which gets people into work, i.e. a government that acts in this way, shows a great deal of community mind. I am pleased that the Danes support this, and I am pleased that we have a Parliament which, unlike the parliaments of other countries, is ready to be responsible and to contribute to the implementation of those decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093853	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222093859	I have to deal with the increase in test capacity. After months of calls for the government to start using private test capacity, it is 14 days since the government saw the light. So if it had been something of such concern to the government, it would probably have happened earlier. I would like to help the rapporteur to answer a question that was not answered: are there places where the government will not spend more money? Yeah, I think you're one of them. At the Animation School in Viborg is tired of the government cutting funding for this, but it is of course only something that helps educate young people and make us richer as a society. That then leads me to the continuation of what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen asked to ask: How does the Social Democratic Party feel about when you take stock of the economic policy pursued after a year and a half, Denmark becomes 12 billion. kr. poorer than 12 billion. kr.? Is that an answer to the challenges we face? It is a battle with 30 years of economic policy that we have a government that makes Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094002	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094005	But we do not have a government that makes Denmark poorer, so we have to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and other bourgeois politicians about being far more holistic when they look at economic policy. In other words, you can take this approach to early retirement and say that, in isolation, it has a negative effect on the supply of work. However, one cannot ignore the fact that if we do not make the previous withdrawal, we will remove the foundations of the welfare settlement, and if only the foundations of the welfare settlement disappear, if the popular support during the welfare settlement disappears, then we will, of course, remove the foundations of our economy and the fact that we have a healthy public economy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094054	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094057	That was a very interesting answer. Does this mean that there will be an updated answer to question 66 to the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee on the overall impact of the government's economic policy? In reply to the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee, it says in black and white that economic policy has made Denmark 12 billion. kr. poorer. Is that not a holistic answer? Has there been a little tucking in the truth? Has the Minister for Finance given the wrong answer to the Committee on Finance, or is that what the rapporteur is standing on the floor of the Parliament and saying there is nonsense?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094131	No, but you could just wish that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen was as good at listening to my answers as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is to read an answer from the Ministry of Finance, because of course I have read the answer and know it very well, and that is what I am dealing with. I am saying that if you look at the action for action, for example the right to the previous pension, it is true that it provides a lower job offer. It is, moreover, a supply of labour which we have said we will oppose with other initiatives next year. But you just have to look at the link between the previous withdrawal and the welfare settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094202	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094205	I noted earlier that the rapporteur, in an answer to Mr McMillan-Scott's question, said: René Christensen would not really relate to the foreign policy pursued by the Social Democratic Party here. Fortunately, others would like that. In fact, it is not because Google must be a witness of truth in this way that if you google the word aliens, it is actually a blog post from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that comes up where, of course, she first and foremost praises herself, but thus also indirectly Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, for 31 relaxations. That is why I would just like to hear, because we all know how incredibly hard foreign policy affects fiscal policy, if not just Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen will acknowledge that since Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's government has become significantly easier as a foreigner to enter, harder to get out and more lucrative to be in Denmark without ordering anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094303	I think, like Mr. Simpson... Morten Messerschmidt also suggests that we should take those Google results a little with a spruce of salt. I believe that the Google Search History will show a picture of what other parties around the government think it is appropriate to say about the policy pursued. And there may well be examples that we are being criticised for pursuing too strict a policy and at the same time examples that we are being criticised for pursuing too lenient a policy. I am in favour of the social democracy being targeted by the fact that we are, of course, pursuing a strict immigration policy. We do, among other things. in cooperation with the author's party, and that is a cooperation that we welcome. You can also see it on the numbers. If we look at how many refugees and immigrants are coming to Denmark, that is a low figure, and that is because we stand guard over the fundamental rules, the fundamental pillars of Danish immigration policy, family reunification and the like, and that is a course that we intend to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094400	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094402	But that's just not true, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. The other day we found that the person who was convicted 10 years ago of trying to kill Kurt Westergaard is now walking freely in Danish society. He will report to the police every once in a while, but he walks freely because the government has neglected the promise they made to the Danes to find a new exit center. After all, Lindholm was dropped, which means that murderers and other people are walking freely in society today. It was also said that Somalia, where he has citizenship, would be penalised for refusing to accept his own. This has also been neglected. That's why it's gonna be a bit of a fucked-up song from mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094440	Of course, I do not agree with that. Morten Messerschmide i. That is true, and I am as offended by the sense of justice that such situations as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt outlines, takes place. It is also true that the present government, like all previous governments, has some challenges that we must overcome in terms of sending out criminals. I can guarantee that the current government and our minister are working hard for that. Is it possible every time we want it to happen? No, it does not, as well as previous governments have not succeeded, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party has been parliamentary support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094512	Then it's Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094519	Thank you. I would like to start by saying, so that the rapporteur does not get mad at me, that I naturally agree that corona has done nothing good for growth and employment. But I understand that the rapporteur will be very upset when, despite the Government's response, it says that the government has done nothing good for growth and employment. So I will try to ask in a slightly different way. Will the rapporteur recognise that it is not good for growth or employment that the government has raised or proposed raising taxes more than 30 times in a year and a half?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094548	No, what I became a little, I must say, influenced by, and which I didn't think was okay from sir. Troels Lund Poulsen's side earlier was this claim that the government is sending people into unemployment. It's not right. It's the corona that's doing it. What the government is doing in many cases along with the Left is fighting unemployment. And the people who have unfortunately become unemployed, despite the fact that we have been holding hands under more than 250 000 jobs in the spring and creating 14 000 jobs next year, have of course become this because of the corona, a disease that we are doing what we can to combat. That's what I was surprised to hear from you, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen would say. I think that is a statement which is completely outside the scope and which should be kept too good in the Left to make. So it is true that the Left would very much like to draw a picture that we should have raised a lot of taxes and that we generally raise the tax. That's not true. We have made some specific priorities • e.g. together with the Left, for example, in connection with the cigarette tax, and these are priorities that we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094652	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094655	Well, I think I did what I could to prevent the rapporteur from talking about corona, just as Troels Lund Poulsen also acknowledged that corona has had an effect on employment. It may be pointed out that the government's actions have not exactly been beneficial. So I didn't really get an answer to my question. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: will we continue to raise taxes at the rate at which they have been done so far, and do we think that it will have a beneficial effect on growth and employment if we continue to propose raising or raising taxes 30 times the next year and a half?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094726	But Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson will have to be aware that there is a difference between unemployment and employment. What is our challenge right now is that unemployment is too high and that is what we must combat. Then it is true that in the long run we have committed ourselves to taking initiatives which also strengthen employment. I look forward to that work. I would also point out, in the same vein, that the objectives we have set ourselves there are very ambitious and therefore require thorough work. These are some tasks which former bourgeois governments have not been able to solve, for example to ensure that foreigners have a stronger link with the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094758	Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094804	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, both for the speech and for the cooperation on a financial law agreement that I and we in the Enhedslisten think has been very good. But I still have a little, I think, pious Christmas wish to the government, namely that the government is raising climate ambitions. We've made a lot of deals together. We have come a bit along the way, but there is still an infinite distance to see that we actually achieve the Climate Act's goal of a 70 percent CO2 last year we went on Christmas vacation with the Climate Act, and there was hope and joy, but this year it is with the government's proposals for a sub-target that is simply inadequate if you ask various climate experts. And that's not very good. So can the rapporteur not help me to fulfil the very pious Christmas wish to raise climate ambitions so that we may seem to be able to achieve the goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222094906	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen for that question. We are standing here on 22 December and I like something that we have the right to make pious Christmas wishes so that it is well received. After all, it is not certain that we can reach the goal of complying with all the wishes of the Enhedslisten, but at least the wish must be allowed to be stated. I think that the fact that, over a year and a half, we have reached a third of the way towards the world's most ambitious climate policy on a 70-percent reduction by 2030 is relatively ambitious, and I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten has helped us achieve it and has pushed on and in every way been a driving force in the green transition. But let us also remember to dwell a little bit on the results: one third of the way to 70%. is simply impressive. And we look forward to getting even further. Among other things: We are going to talk about agriculture on the other side of New Year's... a green conversion of agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095009	Then it's Mai Villadsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095012	Thank you. Well, we're about to write 2021, and then there's only 9 years left before we have to achieve our goal. And yes, we have planned a third of the way, but when will the plan for the remaining two thirds come?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095027	It comes, of course, as we conclude the agreements that we would very much like to conclude, also with Enhedslisten, among others. on agriculture. However, I also believe that we should be aware that our policy is actually so ambitious that we cannot just focus on this implementation trail. We have to invest massively in the development trail with the Enhedslisten and the other parties behind the Financial Law Agreement, with the other hand. Because we have actually set such an ambitious green policy that we do not know all the steps on the way to implementing it. That is why we have also invested heavily in green research so that we can get new ways of getting there, and that is what we need to translate into concrete policy together with, among other things. Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095102	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095105	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. There was very little financial law in the speech, but we must then try to make that right during the day here. The rapporteur mentions that the issue of taxes is simply about adjustments. Now they've been raised 30 times since the election. This corresponds to a few adjustments per week where taxes have increased. I think that many citizens might think that is enough and, at least, contrary to what was promised before the elections. A Christmas wish from here could be to hear whether the rapporteur will promise that by 2021 no further tax increases will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095159	What is true is, of course, that we have made some specific priorities in order to meet some wishes for changes in society in many cases, on which we agree. We have, for example, raised the price of cigarettes together with the Left. I think that, and it is free from memory, is the biggest change in the tax system, at least in terms of revenue, and we have done it together with the Left. I am glad that the Left supports the idea that we should have fewer young people starting to smoke. I can guarantee that we will not raise taxes in general. We do not think that the time is right now, but we are going to make and have continuously made targeted priorities of our tax system and, most recently, that approach has meant that the Left is outside a police settlement. This is something surprising, but it is an approach and a tax freeze in which the Left itself must defend the sensible thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095257	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095301	To date, the government has raised taxes 30 times in a year and a half. This seems to us to be going in a completely wrong direction, and it is also strange when the Prime Minister said this spring about tax increases: it would be a strange answer to a Danish business community that is in a really, really difficult situation. The answer to the business community has so far been that they are now getting taxes and taxes and more in a situation where they are struggling so much in everyday life to keep their noses open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095337	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095340	I think that, for the sake of the debate, we need to be more specific. It is true that these priorities have been set. Some of them are to get fewer young people to start smoking, so we raise the tax. The Left has been involved in this. Then there are other issues on the tax side on which we disagree, such as the tax on driving licences. We'll raise it to secure more local police stations to secure more officers out there. That was left against, and that is why they are outside the police settlement. That is how there will be ongoing priorities, and let us take them one by one. The choices we have made are my goal. The left must then do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095412	Thank you. It is the case that, compared to the agreed time, we can have two more brief comments, and that is Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, and Erling Bonnesen, Left. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095427	Thank you. Almost a year ago, the Prime Minister launched an attack on his family in his New Year's speech. The Prime Minister wanted more forced placements and more forced abortions and wanted to put forward a child's law. Thank God we haven't seen that yet. In the Danish People's Party, we want an old law, because that is more necessary, and so I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur what the rapporteur is thinking about having an old law that ensures minimum standards in our nursing home, so no night watchman should be left alone with the responsibility for 40 residents. What does the Socialist rapporteur say about that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095508	Thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for her question. First of all, I would like to say that with the forthcoming Finance Act, which the Danish People's Party unfortunately is outside the scope of the directive, but I think it might be possible to support the part relating to the area of elderly people. kr. to better care for the elderly, to prevent people in the care of the elderly from being in situations such as the one just outlined. And we do this after we have held our hands under the welfare economy with the agreement with municipalities and regions, where we ensure that the economy follows when we grow older. So first we ensure that the foundation is in place and then we make a massive investment in better care for the elderly to ensure that there are more hands and to ensure that employees are better qualified. We would like to discuss a law on the elderly and concrete measures with the Danish People's Party, but I hope that there is support that, unlike the previous bourgeois government supported by the Danish People's Party, we actually hold hands under welfare and also care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095608	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095611	If I have understood the Socialist rapporteur correctly, one would like to make a child's law, whereby more children are forced to be adopted and forced to be adopted, but one would not want to be involved in making an old law • a definite old law that ensures minimum standards, just as it has been done in the area of children, which guarantees rights for the elderly, which will ensure better conditions for them. It's really good that you secure more staff, but so, Else wouldn't have gotten better in the ceiling lift because there were four people standing there looking at her. Else needed proper, dignified and respectful treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095643	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095646	I very, very much agree that Else needed it. After all, these were absolutely horrific images which we had to reject, as we saw there. One of the things that might have made a difference was that, on the one hand, the staff had not been subject to savings for a number of years, but, on the other hand, they had been better qualified. That is why one of the biggest single priorities of this financial law is more money for the elderly sector, so that we will not experience any more of the examples we have seen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095718	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095724	Thank you. I would like to stick to the question raised by my good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Torsten Schack Pedersen left a moment ago, in view of the fact that, as I understand from the rapporteur, it is a fact that the government is pursuing an economic policy which makes Denmark poorer. One thing is, of course, that the corona has knocked us all back on the board, you might say, but in addition to that the government then leads, I understand from the rapporteur, a policy that makes Denmark poorer. We have already pulled the levers with several tax increases, with increased indebtedness. So the big question is: what will the government do to get Denmark back in gear? Fortunately, we now see that a vaccine may soon be available and so on. I understand that the Radical Left is a little concerned about the economy. So the big question is: what has the government prepared to get Denmark back in gear after we have finished Christmas and New Year and the vaccine hopefully starts working? This is not just going to go on its own; there must be some initiatives on the table. What does the government have of initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095825	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095829	What is the greatest single threat to our wealth and prosperity and the ability to finance our welfare societies in the years to come is if unemployment is getting firm. And that is why we have not repeated, among other things. The failure of the Left in the context of the financial crisis, which gave large tax cuts, which had a very small effect on job creation, but which struck a huge gap, which meant that fiscal policy had to be tightened up quite quickly, thereby making unemployment worse. Unemployment is the greatest challenge in terms of our prosperity, and that is why we are putting our focus on it now. Having said that, it is clear that some of what makes the greatest difference in relation to the crisis now is, of course, also the infection; that we are getting the infection knocked down; that we are putting in place restrictions that a responsible Parliament has fortunately supported. Then it is also true that in the longer term we also have a task of getting more people into the working community. It is a difficult task, but it is also a task that we are ready to take on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095924	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222095925	That was mostly an answer to what was not what I was asking was what the government has of initiatives. So, in short, does the government have any growth initiatives, that is, any things clear in the drawer and on the table that can be put into effect when the corona is now hopefully, can we say "squeeze off when some vaccine comes?" Apparently, you haven't. And I think that's too bad and sad. And that's what you could expect for such a financial bill debate as now, when you have to start looking into how we get Denmark back into gear; how we get some growth initiatives so we can get some more tax dollars in the box. The tourist industry is down and many other things. Does the government have any initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222100002	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222100004	With all due respect, sir. Erling Bonnesen and the Left had to read the Finance Act again, because there are plenty of growth initiatives. There is the initiative that gives companies a higher deduction of research and development so that we get more investment in the inventions and in the technology that makes us richer and creates jobs in the long term. There is better funding for entrepreneurs. And then there is massive investment in the education sector to ensure that companies on the slightly longer track have skilled labour that makes Denmark richer. So I think with all due respect you have to go back to the reading room and study it all a little more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222100038	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and time has also been spent wisely. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222100113	Thank you for the floor. Let me begin this speech by congratulating the government on achieving the financial law agreement. It will soon be Christmas, and that is why we must start with something positive. It's not always an easy exercise. I know. I have also been in government in the past. And my impression is that it has been relatively easy. We have not thus been part of all the agreements that have been concluded, but, after all, we have been involved in a large number of agreements with the government in the course of 2020. I would like to start by signing for that. There is usually a lot that divides us, but we have made a lot of agreements together, which fortunately can help Denmark further. We have also done so in relation to the corona crisis, which has, of course, affected Denmark for good and evil, and it is unfortunately mostly for evil. One gets the impression from the Socialist rapporteur that it is the Social Democrats alone who have made all these agreements, but I also think that, in respect of all the other parties here in the Danish Parliament, it should be mentioned that fortunately it has been a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that has taken up a group. It is not, of course, the case that the government has patented it. When you look at the agreement the government has made with its support parties, it looks like what you might call a soft package. It's primarily because you don't hit it so much. There are, of course, things that could be different and things that could be better. But you have agreed to distribute a wide range of gifts. It is soon Christmas too, which is why many gifts are now being distributed. It is not necessarily the right gifts that are being distributed. But having said that, one has to say that the government does not really want to take the difficult discussions. It may be that it is because Christmas peace would like to sink, that for a year, which has been marked by quite a lot of frustration and discouragement, we have thought that we must take the difficult discussions a little later. It may be that we are getting better at them today, because one can at least say that a party that has taken a great deal of interest in it, that there has to be a responsible economic policy, and that it must also be delivered in relation to what is about the supply of labour, is the Radical Left if one believes in what they say and I have no reason to do otherwise. And when we talk about the supply of labour, it is also about what goes with the supply of labour, namely that we are getting richer. That is why many parties want to discuss how we can make Denmark richer. This is done by means of a greater supply of labour. But it must be understood that this is certainly not where the Social Democrats are. I heard that the current Minister for Finance Nicolai Wammen said that it is, in fact, just a functioning Finance Minister that we have now, and I say this with great respect that the tax minister has now temporarily taken over the position of Minister of Finance, but who knows if it will be permanent that there was a promise that reforms should be delivered here in 2021. We'll take a look at the time and see if that happens. We hope so, and we will support the parties that work for it, but we can be in doubt whether that is happening. I guess you could say that the government is a little bit like a lice between two nails. I know at least the views expressed by the Enhedslisten. They do not believe that labour supply reforms should be carried out on that scale because this would go against the understanding paper. And we also know what the Radical Left thinks. My message is basically just that we will help make Denmark richer. We must then hope that it succeeds. The Left's bid for the financial law agreement is, in short, that it could have been very different. It could have made Denmark much richer. And the criticism we have is based on several things. We are truly saddened that, in the wake of a year that has sent Denmark through shock waves, the government is unable to put a bill of finance on the table that shows the way for how Denmark is getting richer in the long term. A great deal of money is being spent, preserved, but unfortunately not on anything that really creates employment and prosperity in Denmark in the future. That is why I think it is worth mentioning here to the Socialist rapporteur, who felt very piqued about what I said, namely that the government also has a responsibility to make Denmark poorer, that I did not say that it was the sole responsibility of the government, but I said that the government has a responsibility for that. There are plenty of industries where you can see that what happened in 2020 has a government responsibility because people have been pushed into unemployment. Fortunately, it is the case that more people have been given a job again since we last discussed where we stood purely financially. But the truth is that by the end of 2020 we are in a difficult situation because more people have lost their jobs. In addition, we can also note that in an answer that has already been discussed here today, the Ministry of Finance has, after all, estimated the loss of wealth in the decisions taken by the government since the 2019 parliamentary elections at 12 billion. kr. I do not think we can be familiar with our future generations. I think that is quite the wrong way to go, and one has to understand that the 12 billion. kr. then is a wrong answer given by the Ministry of Finance. I do not think it is, I think it is a correct answer, and unfortunately an answer means that the children I have and the grandchildren I have will live in a Denmark that will become poorer if we do not dare to make the necessary decisions. Another thing that goes back to the government's draft budget and what then became the agreement is that one obviously has a horn in the side of the Danes' right to free elections, to private initiative. I find this sad, because it shows that the government does not believe that even the Danes are the best at choosing what is the best solution for them. It also shows that the government has more faith in the system than in the individual Dane's ability to make a free and informed choice when it comes to school, care or home help. Time and again we have seen the government make life difficult for private actors who want to ensure a free choice for the Danes in the Danish welfare community, for example by limiting the opportunities for private institutions here is the day institutions • to transform them into self-serving institutions with more supervision and control. Or by proposing to lower the coupling rate in the free primary schools last year. Fortunately, this did not succeed initially, even though the conditions of free primary schools have now deteriorated by the back way, by ensuring that the public school pool is not included in the calculation of the grants from the free schools. Finally, the government has also been, unfortunately, very, very slow to make use of private coronatest, even though the Left and many other parties have been asking for it over recent months. There are certainly many chains of infection that could have been broken in the past if you would have used the resources of society and not just the state. How many cases of infection could we have avoided, and how many could have held Christmas with their families instead of being quarantined? And I still don't understand why people have been so opposed to using private suppliers. The list is long, and I could go on. I think this is a real showdown of the Danes' free choice. It is an armament of the system, and I do not think it is the last thing we have seen from the government either. So I do not understand why the initiative and innovation and the fire souls and resources in both the private and the public sectors will not be used, so that we get as good solutions as possible. You don't want to. There are two ways in Danish politics. There is the social democratic path that makes Denmark poorer and raises taxes and charges. And then there is the other way, the way of the Left, to which we profess ourselves. We think we should put man at the centre. We believe that man's ability to choose for himself is what can drive evolution. We believe that the welfare society must exist on human terms and not vice versa. We cherish the freedom of choice. We need Denmark back on course. We must give the Danes the prospect of a brighter future. This is, in our view, a bottom-up task. That is why we also presented our financial law priorities for 2021 back in November. Here we argued for a tax freeze that can ensure calm and security about the Danish economy and thus also the Danish companies' economy, and initiatives that ensure that more people contribute to the community and ensure new growth. For the Left, future-proof Denmark will ensure that in the future we also have skilled companies that create export successes and expand our strengths, not least in the field of green technology, which will be crucial in relation to the future. We also had a large number of proposals in which we can see that we have not been met. Let me just mention a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, which the Danish People's Party has already mentioned in this debate. We wanted a Danish claim for full cash assistance, so there is a clear incentive to learn the Danish language. We wanted to roll back the government's higher public services to unemployed immigrants in particular, so that there is a greater initiative to contribute to the community, and we also wanted money to be set aside for a third exit centre which the government has dropped so that we could thus get to grips with the deported criminals. It would also create security throughout the country. Unfortunately, none of this was included in the Finance Act. But now we're at a new year, we're looking forward to 2021, and that's why the Left hopes that in 2021 in this Parliament we can make Denmark richer for the benefit of Danish society as a whole. We owe that to the generations of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101137	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first is to Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101144	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Last week, the Left chose a little surprisingly to be outside the police reform that ensures more close police and security for the Danes, because it is supposedly contrary to the Left's tax freeze to regulate the fee for the passport issue. However, the tax freeze in the Left version has not prevented the Left from voting for a new regulation of the Energy Network, which means that the tariffs on the electricity bill will rise. That is why it would be very good if the rapporteur would help us to define this tax freeze a little more clearly. I would like to ask whether fees, for example, are subject to the tax freeze so that they will not be able to increase in line with inflation under a possible left-wing government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101235	I can also say that the Left was sorry that we could not be involved in the police reform, but it is based on the fact that 500 million will have to be spent. kr., which one collects in taxes. We think that is the wrong way to go. In addition, it must also be said that if you go down the funding trail, you can see that the resources that should have been used for a third exit centre have been involved. So the whole funding of the police reform was unacceptable to the Left. What other parties decide is of course up to them, but we made the decision that we did not think that the funding under the police agreement was sensible. This does not mean that there can be no elements, and it is there, of the agreement that we are going to support, but we want it to be given a different priority, and we will then discuss this on a regular basis here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101326	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101327	I am in favour of the rapporteur explaining the fact that the Left is outside a police settlement, and that, of course, is the election of the Left, which is surprising. But what I asked specifically was the consequence of the election for the left's proposed tax freeze. I ask very specifically whether fees are covered by the tax freeze so that they will not be able to increase in line with inflation under a possible left-wing government. If you look at the election of the Left just recently, it points a little in both directions, so it would be nice to have a concrete clarification of that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101409	Well, I'm glad the Social Democrats care so much about tax policy. It is, of course, more recent, because this government has set up taxes a lot of times. This has helped to make Denmark poorer by 12 billion. kr. We have put forward a tax stop... we did so only in the election campaign... and if you want to unfold in the discussion about the left tax stop, you can also see our tax stop on our website. So there's practically nothing in it. And in relation to the discussion about tariffs, it is an agreement back from June, where it all became cheaper for Danes and companies. That is why there is no problem in the history of tariffs, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen discusses.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101456	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101502	First of all, thank you for your cooperation, even from me personally. It has been a pleasure to come as a new rapporteur and to cooperate with Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. It is the case that the year 2001 has contacted me and asked me to say to the Left that you want to have your tax freeze back, because what we have seen is a Left that has dropped Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's tax stop, but then in turn has gone back to a very radical definition of the tax freeze that fits with 2001 and the shift is negative in this context. It is, after all, a very square definition which the Left has adopted, which means that you cannot help raising the fee on arms permits and entering into a police agreement, and which also means that you cannot be included in a green transport agreement because you are looking at diesel going to increase slightly because we need to make diesel in a different way, which is more climate-friendly. This makes it difficult for the Left, as I see it, to be the transforming force, because you put yourself in a leglock and thus cannot help making big, changing agreements. Then you couldn't go back to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's tax stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101619	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101621	Thank you for the words of Mr. Andreas Steenberg. I have also put and, I think, will also appreciate the cooperation with the Radical Left. After all, it is strange that we should hear from a radical rapporteur that the shift can also be a bad thing. I kind of agree that it's usually when you're very radical, because then it's very bad. But when we have the policy that we have, it is because we do not want to help make Denmark poorer. After all, we have also appealed to some sort of common sense in the Radical Left, which I regret to note is something absent if not all the time, so at least enough today. For making Denmark poorer, we do not think that is the way to go. I do not think the Radical Left will do that either, and I actually used the opportunity to sign that it has at least been said that it is going to press for Denmark to be made richer. That is why it must also be my call for the Radical Left to return to a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101726	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101728	Well, then, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen is looking forward to my rapporteur's speech a little later, because it is still extremely important. However, it is difficult for me to see that Denmark is becoming poorer by the police agreement that has been made because the fees on arms permits are being set up. They have not been regulated since the 1990s. What we are concerned about is that the Left cannot be the transforming force and progressive force in relation, for example, to. Green conversion, when you cannot help raising some taxes, but maybe facilitate them elsewhere. The very square interpretation of the tax freeze we're afraid means you can't make those changes. So I just want to ask you one more question: couldn't you come back to sir? Lars Løkke Rasmussen's tax stop, because that gave us some opportunities to make some deals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101814	There is, in fact, no new interpretation in relation to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. If he were here in the Chamber today, he would also say that the police agreement that was made had been completely reddened. So the eagerness to reach out for Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen I think he'd appreciate it, but it wouldn't change anything. What is boring is, of course, that you choose to make a large number of targeted increases in taxes and taxes, despite the fact that you could have financed the police agreement in other ways. I think the Radical Left will recognize that too. It must therefore be noted that if it is a driving argument that one has to make it more expensive to be a Dane and more expensive to operate in Denmark, then the Left will not be involved in the agreements. That's the way it is. That is, of course, the consequence of the way in which the Folketing is composed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101900	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101905	Thank you. I have negotiated with the Left a number of times during this autumn, and if there is something as safe as the amen in the church, it is that there will always be a rapporteur from the Left who says that with that agreement you want to spend money from the room. Uh, you just want to empty the room. And then my simple question to the Left is actually just: how are we to afford welfare? I could also rephrase it: which of all the welfare promises we make with this Finance Act, does the Left not think should be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222101942	In other words, if we return to the answer that has been the subject of the debate here in the Danish Parliament, then the current government, which Enhedslisten supports, has helped to make Denmark poorer. We think that is the wrong way to go. We think you should make the cake bigger. Because what is the whole exercise in politics is that if you want to prioritise more resources for example. We have to be richer as a society, because the green transition comes with a price. I believe that we are in agreement on this, even though we may not agree on how it should be financed. I have also participated in a large number of political negotiations with Mai Villadsen. That is why we have to say that this is what we are working for. We work to make Denmark richer as a society and not the opposite. And what's the difference, and that's why there are two ways in Danish politics... is that you can either do what the government does with the support parties, and that leads one way, namely a wrong way, because it makes Denmark poorer, or you can go the way we want, and that makes the cake bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102047	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102050	The rapporteur mentions the green transition, and in this connection I also have to touch on the tax freeze of the Left. Because not only were you standing outside the police settlement, you were also standing outside the settlement of the green cars. After all, we were outside because fossil cars became marginally more expensive, and I simply have to ask the Left: does the rapporteur think it is realistic to achieve the climate targets without fossil cars becoming just marginally more expensive? Is that really realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102123	So, I would like to acknowledge that Mai Villadsen knows why the Left was outside the agreement, as I know, Mai Villadsen was not involved in the discussions we had with the government. I am not, however, accusing the tax minister of passing on all the discussions we have had. There were several arguments as to why we were outside the agreement. But one can say that the core of it is that which is also the difference between Enhedslisten and Left it is, of course, that Enhedslisten has an ambition to be green, but it can only cost nothing. We do not want to pay for it; the way to finance the green transition must be by using increased taxes and taxes as a source of financing. That is where we think we should think differently. In fact, we think that we can use part of our economic scope to make Denmark more green. And that is why I think it is also a discussion that we can return to in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102214	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102218	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying that I am extremely grateful for the cooperation that I have with the rapporteur. It's a good cooperation. I was also somewhat saddened when yesterday the Chairman of the Left saw his cut to go after New Citizens. Actually, I think we have a good working relationship. Yeah, we bite you guys sometimes a little bit, but I guess so. I'd like to ask about the world's highest tax burden. We've had the record for far too long, actually, in 18, I think, out of the last 20 years. Now we hear that the ambition of the Left is that they will at least roll back the increased taxes introduced by the Social Democrat Party. But couldn't we from the bourgeois side try to have a slightly higher level of ambition? 1 or 2 on the list of the world's highest taxes; that we go further down? Could one not try to see if we could find any common bourgeois footsteps around it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102320	Let me start by also signing for cooperation with Lars Boje Mathiesen and New Citizens. Well, I've been following Lars Boje Mathiesen for that time, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been the financial rapporteur and this has been an exciting development, I would say. It has also been a development for the better for Lars Boje Mathiesen and the Folketing, I think, and I say this in respect of the fact that I think New Citizens have sought good political influence on many of the things we have discussed. Although we cannot agree on everything, we agree that there is a need for a new government and a new economic policy and a policy based on making Denmark richer. I fully agree that the first place that Denmark has now unfortunately reclaimed in relation to the OECD tax burden inventory must be disposed of as soon as possible. We are doing this by having the courage to go another way too, so that we have the courage to take up a fight with, for example. our entire policy on the provision of services in the field of foreigners, where for example: unemployed immigrant families are, after all, given money which makes it not worthwhile for them to work. The lack of integration costs a two-digit billion sum. After all, these are some of the places where I think we should find a bourgeois stand and have a fight with some of those areas, because there is a great deal of money that can be made free for other ways of spending them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102439	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102443	Thank you. Let me try to get sharper every day. Could the rapporteur not try to give some substance to what it is if we do not have the highest level of taxation in the world, for some taxes and taxes which the Left sees as being able to stand together to lower? I agree with the rapporteur that we should not have that ambition, but let us bite to fuck straight away: what kind of taxes do the Left want us to lower?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102511	After all, we have put forward a proposal on financial law priorities which I strongly recommend one might take the opportunity to read. I think so too, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen has. We have said there that we think it should be made easier and cheaper to operate. After all, the generational shift tax is an example in which the government has made it considerably more expensive to create a generational shift model. Then we have also said that we think it should be more attractive and that it should pay better to work. There are still too many of those who do not have an incentive to work today. Among other things: people with some of the low wages we have said must have a higher employment allowance. So it's just to mention a few things. I think there is a great deal that we can agree on, and that is certainly an alternative to the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102606	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102610	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen just referred to my fellow rapporteur, Christian Rabjerg Madsen, on the Left's website on the issue of the tax policy of the Left. But now that we have Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen on the platform, I really think it would be so good if we could have the discussion about it, and I also have the expectation that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen can actually explain what tax policy is then, and not just refer to a website. Something has been achieved over a number of tax increases, which are pointed out to have been carried out by the government. I must then point out that the Left has then voted in favour of the 12 of them and is in favour of 12 of them, and I do not assume that they have regretted this, but just a little fail to tell anything about it. More interesting, of course, is to get an answer from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen states, if that means that the Left today will say that all the others that have been pointed out, intending the Left to return, one should win the next parliamentary election. Were they so wrong that they all want to roll back, or is it just a little talk you drive from here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102719	That's the lovely sir. Jesper Petersen again, whom I know so well. In other words, our tax freeze allows us, for example. to raise taxes if it affects public health. That is why we have supported raising the tax on cigarettes. Well, that's familiar to Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen. Ten years ago, we had the same discussion when I was Minister of Taxation and Mr. Jesper Petersen was the tax rapporteur for the SF, so it's not that Mr. Jesper Petersen is completely unaware of this. It is not that the policies of the Left have changed. It's kind of the same. Then Mr. Jesper Petersen, if I can guarantee that all the accidents that the current government has done will be made about I agree that Mr. Jesper Petersen does not believe that these are accidents, but it is the political disagreement that we have had if there is a new government. Yes, I can guarantee they will if the Left gets 90 seats. After all, it is probably too great a wish to have 90 seats in the next parliamentary elections. I am aware of that too that may not be realistic. But how much can be changed depends on how the Folketing is composed. As far as taxes and charges are concerned, we believe that we must settle the situation and then we must look at what priority can be given to restructuring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102838	Sir. Jesper Petersen with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102840	Thank you. I take this as a confirmation of the fact that the policy of the Left must be taken at face value as far as those, I believe, 16 tax changes which the Left is not part of; they all want to be rolled back. It will be exciting to see if there is a connection in it when the Left has a slightly more developed economic policy than the one you now have. One specific example I would like to address is the 700 million. kr. as it will cost the Treasury if you do what the Left said before the election you would do, namely to make it tax-free to get your private phone and phone paid by your employer. Is it still the policy of the Left that it should be tax-free, that is, that it should be something that the community like helps to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222102929	This is, I think, an interesting discussion we have here. We have presented our political priorities. That is what we are discussing here today. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Jesper Petersen has read our financial bill, but that doesn't seem to be the case. What I said, and I would like to repeat this, is that I am not in a position to explain what economic morass the Left had to take over, the day this government leaves government offices. I predict that there will be a great deal of clean-up work. What that then allows for in terms of implementing political initiatives, we will have to take a position on at that time. However, we believe that the taxes imposed against our will are the wrong way to go because it makes Denmark poorer. Second Vice-President Thank you! Thank you to the rapporteur.). We can already see now, sir. Jesper Petersen states that Denmark has become 12 billion. kr. poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103024	I must ask the rapporteur to respect the speaking time. And when the President gets up, regardless of the President's less high stature, that means that the speaking time has actually been exceeded. I understand that you cannot look at the side, but you can see that the President is standing, and the President is doing so when the speaking time is up. Let's go, sir. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten have the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103043	I would like to follow up Mrs May Villadsen's question about what parts of the Finance Act are, as the Left does not think, because it seems from the Left that much more money should have been spent on making tax cuts and many other things. So what are some things in the Finance Act that are not going on? Is it the promise of the elderly, which will be 500 million? kr. Annually from 2024 onwards, which will already be 425 million by 2021. kr.? Is it the children's area and the promise of the day-care area that the Left does not support? Or is it the field of education and training where we support with a taximeter lift for upper secondary education and support vocational training and social education? So, what exactly are some areas that the Left does not think should be included in the Finance Act that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103138	Now, of course, we never attended the real financial law negotiations simply so that it should be clear, and I think Mr. Rune Lund knows. I say that in this way there are good elements in the Financial Law Agreement that are, but what is crucial to the fact that the Left does not think it is the right Financial Law Agreement is that it does not make Denmark richer. It does not make Denmark richer as a society. It's a very, very minimal value creation that had to be in this Finance Act. In particular, there is the challenge, and that is why we have, one might say, a fairly clear criticism of the Finance Act that it does not have a lasting aim to lift Danish welfare and thus make society richer in the long term. There's nothing in this Finance Act that points forward. These are small steps, that is, where you look forward to 2021. After all, there is no underlying agenda for making Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103232	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103234	So that's really out of the question. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen refers to some theoretical calculations, something theoretical about labour supply and some calculations in the Treasury calculator, which are very far from reality. I'm dealing with reality. We are making a financial law here in order to strengthen the area of elderly people, to strengthen the area of education, to strengthen the area of day-care and to strengthen the green transition. There's no money for it all if some of this money is going to be used to make tax cuts and tax rebates for the richest ones, as the Left would like. So, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, what exactly are some areas of this Finance Act that the Left doesn't think should be in that Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103310	Well, you can certainly see that, and Mr. Knox knows that. Rune Lund too well. We shall vote on the amendments here later today, and there we have tabled a host of amendments both on how to make a different financing of the Finance Act, but also on some areas that we think we should give priority to. I would then like to take this opportunity to say what the priorities might have been. More money could have been spent on digitisation, which is of course absolutely essential for us to enter a digital age. One could have done more in terms of lightening taxes for companies and citizens, which we actually think can help pave the way for Denmark to become richer. And then there are a host of other amendments that we will come back to. We are merely politically divided, and that is why there is a difference between the parties in which we are. So it's not that the Finance Act in isolation is bad, but we just don't agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103357	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103406	Thank you. Yesterday, we finally adopted the right to an earlier retirement pension, the so-called Arnepension, and it is well known that the Left was against it. But my question is really whether the Left will go to the polls to abolish that right to former withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103426	Now I think it is a little early for me to present the electoral basis of the Left for a forthcoming parliamentary election campaign here in the platform today. It doesn't fall in my lot to do it. But it is not a secret that the Left thinks it is the wrong way to go to make an early withdrawal. We do not believe that this is a model of solidarity. If the Left is given the opportunity to do so, we will ensure that that model does not come into being, that is, if we have government power. But that must depend on what the majority is like. We also recognise that there are conciliation ties, but that is not the policy of the Left. We think it's the wrong model.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103508	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103511	Thank you for what was actually quite a clear answer to the fact that, if it is up to the Left, we want to abolish the right to early retirement after the next elections. I really think it is to the credit of the Left that this is being said so frankly, because no one in this Chamber can guarantee who gets a majority. But it's nice to know what the aspiring prime minister party thinks about this. So thank you for the fact that the Left has confirmed that it actually wants to do away with this if you get the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103539	You're welcome. Of course, you always get sad when you get praise from Jens Joel, because there is, I think, not necessarily a well-intentioned praise, one must say. However, the discussion we have had with the government has shown that yesterday in the Parliamentary Chamber the Left believes that this is a wrong model. We think that the Danes are being taxed on fire to finance a model that is not solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103602	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103606	The rapporteur spoke of innovation and initiative, and that is a good thing, because we need it in Danish politics. But in the last period the bourgeois politicians were hindered by the fact that there was a party climbing up into a tree, and now it's as if the Left has found a new tree and is at full speed on its way up into this tree. If you hold onto such a square an understanding of the tax freeze, it will end up with Enhedslisten looking like a pragmatic party compared to the Left. Well, it's a bit awkward if the Left ends up putting itself completely outside of influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103641	It's not every day you're compared to Enhedslisten, so thank you for that comparison. Well, we're on some principles. I actually thought the Radical Left did the same; I thought that the Radical Left had some principles in relation to economic policy. We believe that we need to make Denmark richer and not poorer. That's why we stand firm on our tax freeze.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103703	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103705	In fact, I think we had a better discussion at first reading of the draft budget than today, and I do not know if it was because the rapporteur had seen any Rasmus Klump. So perhaps the rapporteur could take the Christmas break to see something more Rasmus Klump again, because the adventure is just not the same if one of the friends Pingo, or who the Left imagines they are going home and won't be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103731	I'll take that advice. Well, now I didn't actually choose to make any comparisons with comic books, because someone last criticized me, but the debate didn't seem serious enough. I can inform you that in my home we have moved to Llama Llama, which I clearly recommend you see. It's good. However, I am not in a position to make a direct transfer from Llama Llama to the Radical Left other than to say that I hope the Radical Left is on guard to pursue an economic policy. We have, of course, had excellent cooperation, so I do not want to stand up and polemicise with the Radical Left either. After all, we agree on long stretches of what a responsible economic policy is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103813	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103826	Thank you for the floor. Last Tuesday we landed a police settlement with some of the things that I think the Left is also very concerned about, as several police officers and even a police guarantee, which I know the Left's legal rapporteur has been particularly concerned about. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me that the Left has not wanted to help secure a direction for the Danish police over the next many years. Because this police settlement also adds more money, and I really think that the Left is concerned about that too, and this police settlement is, in fact, much bigger than what Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen once landed under a bourgeois government. And I can read in the papers that there is something called the Troels Lund Poulsen doctrine. So, maybe sir. Troels Lund Poulsen could explain to me what it is about and how it can block one from something as important as a police settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222103922	Now I think it's to give me too much power if I should have developed a doctrine. The only doctrine I have is the doctrine that follows common sense, and so I can hope that Enhedslisten and SF and other parties can join. Now it's SF we're discussing here. We believe that the police agreement contains a great many fine elements and things that we have proposed ourselves, but we must also note that if we want to finance it in the way we do, we do not want to be a part of it. We had offered to finance it in many other ways, but unfortunately that was not possible, and then we do not want the Left to be part of the police agreement. Does that mean we don't back the cops? No, it doesn't. We will simply finance it in a different way, and hopefully we will have the opportunity to do so when we get the government back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104014	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104015	I just have to say: is it really the intention, when such things as weapons passports and driving licences have not been regulated for perhaps nearly 20 years, that it is quite unreasonable to look at whether this can be regulated? Is it completely unreasonable that we try to reduce su to foreign students who come in a very large number to read in Denmark? Are these totally unfair forms of financing? And why can't the Left back it when we can land something as important as a police settlement that actually provides more officers who make a police guarantee and who secure special units to combat violence and stalking and rape?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104101	There are, of course, elements of the funding that are also contained in the agreement which we think is sensible. Then there are other things that we do not think are sensible. The whole question of raising taxes by 0.5 billion. kr. We think we're the wrong way to go in a three-year agreement. We could have solved that in other ways. We proposed, for example, that the interest rate should be raised in relation to those who owe money to the public sector from 8 to 9%, and that would have given an amount. You couldn't get through with that. We also suggested that one could use the framework in relation to consultants: consultant savings. You wouldn't do that. Then we could see that, when the agreement was concluded, some of the money was still spent on funding. But there were a lot of good opportunities for us to have funded this. This did not succeed and, of course, when we have an economic policy, it also means that we are following it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104147	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104152	Thank you. When you sit down here where I do, you know that a little time can be allowed before you get on the list of speakers, and that is why I have been following Mr Beazley. Troels Lund Poulsen's call to go to the Left's website to find out what they really think about tax policy. When you go to the Left's website, you're first met with something about how you can sign up for a newsletter. I've skipped it and then there's something about security for the property owners. After all, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Taxation have already been in the process of ensuring this. Then there is something about some tax jobs, that is to say that the tax administration must be built up. There the government has already allocated funds to the first 500 tax workers and has a plan to do so for 500 more. But there is no mention of the tax freeze on the Left, as Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen referred to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Therefore, I would like to ask again, and now we have been on the website, and now we have also asked a few times: could it be possible that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen could answer whether fees are covered by the tax freeze so that they will not rise in line with inflation under a Left Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104252	What may appear on the Left's website and what does not appear, I am not just able to see through now, because I do not have access to the Left's website. However, following the popular pressure from the Social Democratic Party, I must ensure that we put forward the tax freeze so that the Social Democratic Party can follow it. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104309	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104311	Well, thank you for that, and I look forward to reading it on the Left's website after the rapporteur has been on the platform. I'm thinking maybe we could take some history with us in order to get a little closer. The tax freeze under the Fogh Government froze the taxes on a crown sum they had in the year 2002. This was the case with alcohol taxes, weight taxes, registration fees and a number of indexed environmental and natural taxes. Does the Left's tax stop mean and now we're just trying to see if we can get a little closer to indexing excise duties such as... The registration fee and the packaging fee will be retained in their current crown and ear amounts under a Left Government? Can the rapporteur reply to that, or should I also wait for it to appear on the Left's website after the speech here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104356	No, I do not think the rapporteur should wait for that. We can be quite confident about that, and when we have a tax freeze, it is because it stands, and we do not think that fees should be used as a hidden tax screw, as the current government does. As to how and how we are going to finance Danish society in the future, I can say that it will not be by using the fees as a source of revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104420	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It seems that no one else has signed up to short remarks, so this is the end of the rapporteur's visit to the platform. There must be a call to spritze before the next rapporteur has to appear on the platform. The next rapporteur, who is asked to be ready, is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222104450	Then we stand here with the budget bill for 2021. This is where the support parties and the government have the opportunity to set a direction for Denmark in the new year. After all, it is a budget law in which we cannot stand up and shout that too little money is being spent, because at least a great deal of money is being spent and there is a great deal of growth in public spending, while at the same time money is being spent on a lot of other things. It's also a very different year, which we'll be out of in a minute when we go into 2021. We have had a year in which the corona has been at the forefront, and it has filled a lot in our political work, and fortunately we have been able to do so together and not politicians too much in it. However, the Finance Act is politics, and I have to say that when I look at the Finance Act with DF glasses, there is much missing. There's one direction missing. If you just look at something like the elderly, it is true that more money has been set aside, but there is no political objective in dropping the money. It is as if on the left it is all about spending the money, while the purpose of spending the money doesn't mean much, because you send huge amounts of money to the municipalities, and then you write on elderly care. You send them out, they get over the block, and the municipalities can use them for whatever they want. It has not been decided what they are to be used for, and no binding has been made in relation to the municipalities. When the Danish People's Party in its time set 1 billion. kr. We said to the municipalities, to the elderly: now you must make a policy of dignity. Then why did we say that? We did so because we in the Danish Parliament had also agreed that there should be a policy on children in many other areas. Local politicians should relate to what kind of service they should have in each municipality, and we also believe that the municipalities should have a broad framework to adjust their offer. What we could see was that there was a major debate in all 98 municipalities about how the policy on the elderly should look. We could also see that the money we set aside for dignified care for the elderly was actually spent on dignified care for the elderly. A great many developed the rock map system, which became more free to make their own choices, i.e. have the right to their own lives, even if they had grown older. There were many who set aside money to give a more meaningful life to the elderly, among others. musicians were hired around, and some municipalities even bought some extra buses so that you could get out on a tour and have some good experiences. What we saw, unfortunately, was that, of course, we could not continue to maintain that the municipalities should return to the state and say what they spent the money on, and then I was stormed by people from our hinterland who were sitting in the municipalities and who asked: What is happening now? It happened that these things were rolled back. The rock card scheme was rolled back, the musicians were fired, etc. Fortunately, there was a compensation scheme, and although we are not part of it, it has to be said that it is moving some money around, which offers some opportunities for the municipalities that have been affected. So you also have to sign for the things that have gone well, even if you are not part of it. But here you drop the money off without really knowing what you get for them. When you look at the children's area, which is probably some of what we can call the nearest welfare we have, and something that is really important, then SF has fought to get some money set aside for minimum standards, and it is, as a starting point, positive that you do so. We have been afraid that when you do so in one area and not in other areas, then it happens that when the municipalities have to give priority to this they have the right to do so and can no longer give priority to children, they can, for example, give priority to the elderly or the school area, which are the other two major areas. The worst thing, however, is that when you look at it, you can discuss whether there really are minimum standards, because it is not at institutional level, but at municipal level. So if there are some institutions where, for example, you have specially challenged children and where you then have a very high standards, that is, many adults for a few children, then that counts for all institutions. So you can easily have institutions where there is a poor standards, that is to say, have adults for many children, and then you can have a few institutions where there are many adults for few children. Pernille Skipper also said it very well, just after the agreement was concluded, even though Enhedslisten is included in the agreement, namely that it is a scam that is the term that Enhedslisten uses to call it minimum ratings. Again you've spent a lot of money, but you've just poured them into the machine and don't really know what you're getting for them. We think that is a pity. We recognise that the money is being spent and we do not want to withdraw the money either, but we had just hoped that there would have been a little more focus on the political, that is, on what the government wants for its money. Because I actually think that the thought set is good enough, but the problem is just what it's gonna be like in real life. When you look at the Finance Act in general, you also have to say that a great deal is also missing. We would have liked to have driven up a little more, up to 150 million. kr. Fortunately, it's back. The Socialists had proposed that it should not at all, in other words, the province had been cut off when the draft budget was drawn up: we do not really want to deal with the province. Fortunately, the support parties and also the blue bloc have pressed for it to come back, but one could just get oneself to put in the amount that the previous government had also committed. We would like to raise this to 150 million. kr., especially in view of the fact that a lot of people had now experienced that you can actually live in the province and work inside the city and work from home, but you can't, if you don't have a proper connection. In other words, one cannot be aware of having the proposal that it should not be included, and we also hope that the red block will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by both the Left and the Danish People's Party to increase the amount of the broadband pool. Another thing that is included, which is also positive, is generational pollution. It's in, but it's just not right. Because it is the case that the Folketing has instructed the regions to look at how to solve these generational pollutions. And why is it called generational pollution? It's because we've been talking about it for generations, and ever since those who are watching this could see it in black and white, you've been talking about this, and no one has solved it yet. That's not good enough. That is why we say on the part of the Danish People's Party: why on earth do we not go out and say that now we are going to solve it, and now we are going to make a 10-year plan so that these generational pollutions will be gone in ten years' time? The plan is there. It can be fully funded. We know what it's gonna cost. The regions are ready. We have had companies inside, and we have had companies inside for long hearings down in the Landstingshall and elsewhere. Denmark is ready to clean up after the sins of the past, yet you start small. And you have to remember that it's not new. In the last Finance Act, which the Danish People's Party helped to agree with the former bourgeois government, we had set 0.5 billion. kr. off. That was not the whole amount, we recognise it, and of course we also recognise that we are now starting up. But we hope that the government and the support parties will take our model. Now get that scheme fully funded so we can put it into practice. The last thing I want to talk about is the area of foreigners, and it has to be said that this financial law is awful. It doesn't say much about foreigners, but it does. Firstly, it does not say anything, and that means that you do not relate to it. You don't want to make any tightenings. The only thing this government has done in its reign is to give reliefs. In the last Finance Act there were many concessions, and we are tabling amendments to that and of course we hope that there will be a majority to roll them back because the entire government is in favour of strict immigration policy. But why on earth would there not be a majority in favour of strict foreign policy? After all, there is a majority in favour of relaxing foreign policy. It is quite awful that people can be persuaded that there is a majority in the Folketing in favour of strict immigration policy when it is not really that way. You set aside money for Denmark to receive 500 quota refugees. That is what we do with the Social Democratic Finance Act. You set aside money for us to go out into the world and bring Muslims to Denmark, and we all know that 500 with the family reunification rules that are there is 2,000, that is 2,500 any minute. In a few years it will not be 500, but several thousand. What is also to be seen is that the government went to the polls for an exit centre for the criminals who have committed murder, war criminals, those who have sold drugs, those who have really violated Danish society. We are not going to have them in Denmark. But what happens? They're running freely. It is now a year and a half since the government came into existence. These people are running free. When we look at what they've done in the period they've been running around freely, we'll see that they've done 40,000 wrongdoings 40,000 times, these people aren't showing up for what they're supposed to be doing. Because we have them under control, the government says, but the government doesn't have them under control. The government has no idea what they're doing. The Danish People's Party has no idea what they're doing. The Danish People's Party knows only that they move freely in Danish society. That is why we have also tabled an amendment. Now the government must come up with something, now they must make sure that there is a third exit centre either in Greenland or elsewhere outside Denmark. There's no point in the Prime Minister going to Motalavej in Korsør. There is no point in the Minister of Integration standing up and holding the toast speeches when we can then see that the policy pursued is a policy that relaxes foreign policy and does not tighten foreign policy. If, however, you had just run the status quo with the austerity that the Danish People's Party has got through in the last period, you might be able to live with it, but the saying that you are a government that is in favour of strict immigration policy but at the same time relaxes it is just not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105456	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are a number of brief comments, and the first one to speak is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105504	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party both for the speech here today, but also for the areas in which we cooperate. One of them is the police settlement we made last week, which provides 20 new close-up units for the police, 450 more officers and the revival of the travel team a lot of good things. That's one of them. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. It has obviously fallen to the left so much for the chest that one could not be in an otherwise good agreement. Then the rapporteur cannot say a little about why the Danish People's Party actually thought that this was within the dial and was a good idea to do, since it is so controversial whether it was in accordance with a tax freeze or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105552	In the Danish People's Party we like the democratic rules, and there is the rule in politics that you never get a hundred percent. It's very, very rare. This is done in dictatorships; it is not so often done in a Danish democracy, and that is why we need to raise the countboard. We do not think it is a fantastic financing model either, but we just think that there was such a great need to get something done for the police. In particular, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we felt it was important that we should have near police stations, especially where we have major challenges with non-Western immigration. That's where we're gonna get two local police stations. So that's why we say yes to it. We are raising the board and looking at where we can exert our influence, and it is also for this reason, as was also said by the Social Democrat rapporteur, that we can easily make agreements with the government. We can also make agreements where Enhedslisten and the Radicals are involved, and we can also make agreements where the Left is involved. We are always looking at how best to use our mandates, and we think we did that in the police agreement. We are satisfied with the police agreement, although there is little funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105649	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105651	Thank you. I think that, too, was a wise way of going to politics. But when it has become so big a cardinal point for the Left and for the discussion in the blue block, please excuse me for asking a few questions about how the Danish People's Party feels about this? In fact, one can derive from this that had the Danish People's Party influenced what the Left did, then perhaps they had also been asked or invited to join in the settlement, and does the Danish People's Party think it makes sense to commit to a tax freeze which makes one as locked on actions as it seems to have been on the police settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105729	I have no comment to make on that. Parties must act as parties will. When we sit in a negotiating room, we have a mandate from DF, both from our parliamentary group and from our electorate, and we use that as best we can. We thought the police deal was a good deal. We're gonna get more police. We'll be decentralized. We'll get the police out so that the citizens can get help when they need it, and that's what the police have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105750	The next brief remark is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105754	Thanks for the speech. When I think of the Danish People's Party's position on ageing policy and also early retirement, I often return to a chronicle which is 15 years old, but as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt wrote at the time when it says, and now I quote: We cannot continue to let people withdraw from the labour market with permanent benefits such as early retirement and early retirement without any assurance that there is a physical or mental illness as a cause. Now the Danish People's Party has voted in this autumn to spend 3 billion. kr. To withdraw 10,000 healthy people from the labour market, yet Mr. René Christensen and downgrade Enhedslisten's result for the Finance Act, where 0.5 billion has been set. kr. to upgrade the care of the elderly. Had it not been more sensible to spend the 3 billion. kr. in better care for the elderly than using them to pull people out of the labour market, without, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt wrote at the time that there is a mental or physical disorder as a cause?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105905	I totally disagree with the context in which this is being taken. If you look at the pension that we have now created and the possibility of early retirement, it is precisely because the retirement age is rising, and I can promise, although I cannot document it now, that history will be able to do so, that those who choose to retire at the level of benefits that there are and which are at the level of retirement pensions are not people who are 100% healthy. It is people who make an active choice to withdraw from the labour market because they have been on the labour market for a long time. They have paid their dues, precisely so that we can have dignified care for the elderly, precisely so that we can have dignified day care facilities, and precisely so that we can have a good primary school. You will now have an opportunity to leave a little earlier, and we are completely in favour of that, and so does Morten Messerschmidt. These people aren't somebody who just chooses one more benefit. You've earned that service.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105957	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222105959	All honour and respect for the Danish People's Party and Mr. René Christensen stands by his appointments. I respect that. But it's something other than that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt said then. After all, money is being spent on pulling people out of the labour market without proof that there is a suffering behind it. I think that the Danish People's Party should have kept to what our two parties had agreed together, namely the senior early retirement pension, which actually works and is targeted at people who are worn out, even though they may not have been as many years on the labour market as the new agreement provides. That is why I still find it a pity that so much money is being spent on it instead of actually spending it on those who need it, for example. better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110039	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we can also make good agreements with the Radicals, and we have done so in relation to senior early retirement. But I would also like to say that it is going to be a little systemical: you have to go through some big mill, and we need a lot of tax dollars to search people for everything. Well, this actually frees up a lot of resources in municipalities and other places and in doctors who need all the powers of the world. I think that all those who have been in connection with a sickness benefit system or other are thinking: what kind of system have we built up? That is why the agreement we have made with the government also provides for greater freedom for the municipalities. There is, in fact, a rationalisation of 1 billion. kr. at the job centres, just to spend the money on the right thing instead of spending it on papers and cross-checks.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110116	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110120	My question is going to be very fine, following on from Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenbergs, just with a somewhat different starting point. Yesterday I was happy to see that we implemented our agreement on early retirement and that the Danish People's Party helped to support that there is some form of justice and some kind of coherence, in relation to when you enter the labour market and when you leave. Great praise to the Danish People's Party. I have also seen a year ago that the Labour Market Rapporteur for the Danish People's Party was out to say that it would not necessarily vote for the increase in the retirement age, which was then also voted on yesterday. How can Mr. René Christensen make it happen that with one hand you help some people to resign earlier and with the other hand raises the retirement age for all? It is as if the right hand of the Danish People's Party does not really know what the left hand makes improvements for some, deteriorations for the many.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110216	This is because the Danish People's Party knows that two plus two is four. Dansk Folkeparti is an economically responsible party... it's Enhedslisten and SF isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110227	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110230	And the Danish People's Party is absolutely certain that the way to create financial responsibility is to plague the seniors in this country. So that is simply the way to go so one-sidedly and one-trackly that we say: we must have money in the treasury, and it must exactly go down on the people who have been on the labour market for a long time. At the same time, at the other end of the labour market, we find it difficult to make room for young people to enter and there insists on the Danish People's Party, I can then hear that it must be the seniors who have to pay this bill, despite the fact that there are billions to be picked up by a better working environment, by an educational effort and by getting young people into the labour market. So the Danish People's Party confirms, not only yesterday at the vote, but also today, that it is the seniors in this country who have to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110310	Listen, sir. Karsten Hønge is based on the fact that the Danish population will not work. But the Danish people want to work if they can. That's why this isn't a problem. It's a problem if you go on endlessly. But it is not the case that everyone out there says every day they have to go to work: it is quite awful. Many have an amazing identity in having a job; they are happy to go to work. Then some people can get worn out. There we have provided for both with a senior early retirement pension and with the agreement that we have made now with the government to be able to leave earlier, that you can then, if you have had the discomfort of working. Anyway, the Danes actually want to go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110345	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110348	One of the things I am actually very proud of in this financial agreement is that it has succeeded, including on the part of the Enhedslisten, to get through with our main welfare requirements, namely an increase in the area of the elderly, which will, of course, be a lasting boost of 500 million. kr. a year. And I must also correct the rapporteur, because the way we do this is actually creating an application pool which gives municipalities access to finance • you get access to employing an unskilled person, if you put another unskilled person on continuing training, so that we get a boost, and when people come back from education, we not only have a boost in the number of hands, but also, in fact, a boost in the level of competence. This is, of course, necessary in a situation where there is a shortage of trained staff and there will be an increasing shortage of trained staff in the area of the elderly in the coming years. So it's actually a very clever way the money is spent here. What I'd like to ask, sir. René Christensen on: how does the rapporteur feel about the fact that here we are actually delivering something that is a real boost to the care of the elderly? This is not such a boost where you give something, for example. an elderly billion, but at the same time general cuts are made in the municipalities, which means that they have to save, in other words where you give the money with one hand and save with the other hand. That's how you did it from 2015 to 2019; that's not how we do it now. Does the rapporteur not think this is much better?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110507	No, I don't think it's better to give 0.5 billion. kr. to care for the elderly instead of 1 billion. kr. In other words, I can say that the former Socialist-led government also paid 1 billion. kr. for the elderly, and then there came a blue government, and there gave the Danish People's Party and the Blue Government 1 billion. kr. to the elderly area. Now there has been a social democratic government again, and with Enhedslisten as a support party, 0.5 billion is being paid. kr. No, I don't think that's very nice; it's half nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110530	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110532	But we have to look at the whole calculation, because if we look at the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, then the demographic move was not even delivered; it was the year when Dansk Folkeparti made the Finance Act. We know, for example, that in the municipalities approx. 20% (ii) the budget for the area of the elderly. This means that if you do not even deliver on the demographic trait, then money will be withdrawn from the elderly area. And then you come and show off that you've delivered an older billion, but you've just cut the money with the other hand. This is a real boost. I would have liked to have seen it even higher, but it is a real boost, contrary to what the Danish People's Party has been showing off with and which has not been a real boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110611	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110612	What you just forget is that when the Danish People's Party gave the dignity billion, it was given where the elderly were. It was not just given on the basis of the ordinary financing key, which lies with the municipalities. If a municipality had a lot of older people, you got more money; if a municipality had fewer elderly people, you got a little less money. One simply got in relation to the challenge one was facing. And therefore it was a far, far better way in which the Danish People's Party conducted older politics than the way in which it is done today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110638	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110641	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for your cooperation in the past year. Contrary to what it often looks like in reality, there is, in fact, very good cooperation between the rapporteur and me. When, under the last government, this change was made by moving it from the licence fee into the Finance Act, I was one of those who feared that this would be a slippery slope, because now it came into the common fund, and then you can just turn it around a little bit. And that is what we have unfortunately seen now, because it has come into the budget law, you can turn a little and just take from the big box and then give a little more money. I would like to ask the rapporteur: when you look at it in the light of hindsight, was it a mistake to move it from licence payment to finance law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110731	It was certainly not a mistake, but we never thought that the social democracy and the red parties would take advantage of the opportunity in the way they are doing here, in other words simply buying the press. We just didn't think we'd do that. But we can see it with other proposals, because now we want to buy the votes in the ghetto areas too. There, money has been set aside to bring in refugees/immigrants by bus so that they can vote. Well, that's the way you optimize your vote number, and we just didn't think you'd do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110759	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110801	Oh, isn't it a little naive to think that the Reds won't take any more money and give it to their friends? Well, that's what my experience says. I haven't been in here for a long time now, but I've been watching what's going on in here anyway. And if there is one thing I know, it is that the Reds want to spend their citizens' money, and that is exactly what has been done here. So can the Danish People's Party see itself in, if power changes once, that we had privatised Denmark's Radio so that you could not keep putting more money into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110833	No, we couldn't imagine. It is very, very important that we have a public service station, which also has the quality of Denmark's Radio. That's why we made this decision. Denmark's Radio has also adapted within the financial framework they have, and Denmark's Radio will still be able to deliver the good quality that we know from Danish Radio. That's why it's just too bad that you're starting to turn this into such a political battleground where friends can give money or try to buy some sympathy. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110901	The next brief remark is from Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222110905	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. For the last time in Denmark we have experienced two major crises: first the financial crisis, and now we are in the middle of the corona crisis. Under the previous government there was the financial crisis, and now there is the corona crisis and this way in which it has been tackled. In this crisis, we have supported welfare with close, close well-being, where regional and municipal agreements have been drawn up, and where, according to the debate that was previously with Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we also had a strengthening of the area of the elderly. We're kind of preoccupied with this demographic move. Could one not try to nuance it a little and say that if we really look at the welfare situations we are facing and then look at the efforts that are out there, it is not essential that there are more hands and that we actually get into the welfare that we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111017	Yeah, just like when you hear the question, you just had to say yes. But it's just not really like that. After all, Karina Adsbøl gave a very good example of what we saw on television, where there were three employees and had a debate about whether to provide a poor service to citizens. It was then three who chose, and it was exactly the least service, whether there had been four or only one and made that choice. That is also why we would like to focus a little more on it. We are, in fact, pleased that the support parties have fought for more money for the elderly. We are also pleased that the support parties have fought for more money for the children's area. We just wanted to have some more politics in. Well, what do you want so much? So it is also the case in the municipalities that we in the Danish People's Party love the municipal self-government that not all decisions in the municipalities are good. There are also some of them where you stand and look, and then you think: Why on earth has the municipality chosen to prioritize it in this way? Of course, they have to face up to that to their electorate. However, when we drop money at Christiansborg, we should also have a political desire for what they will then contribute to the promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111116	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111117	When you look at the broadcast that the rapporteur also describes here, there is something about the education, the education that is essential. And some of the things that can make an area extremely pressured are, of course, if you do not see that you have continuous staff, but that you have a high number of temporary workers coming in and you do not know who you are going to work with. So this thing about making a proper move, where you get the basic standards in place, just gives you a much better quality when you're standing out there with the old ones. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111158	Now it sounds weird, because I actually agree with Enhedslisten, who has put the focus on this upskilling and other stuff. For example, something that is missing is the number of hours. A great many elderly people are employed for 25-30 hours. The hourly wage is not very high, and when you do not have many hours, it is actually difficult to make it stick together. Therefore, the municipalities had to work much more on how to get the number of hours up so that it was more attractive to be in that position. What happens is that the very best start in the care of the elderly, and then they read a little further, and then they read their way out of the care of the elderly. Therefore, one should have used one's forces politically to work much more to get several hours into these employees who are in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111234	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111238	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the introduction by the rapporteur. It was interesting to hear the opinion of the Danish People's Party. I would like to ask a little bit about what the rapporteur mentioned a little earlier, namely police conciliation. In the police settlement, which consists of a great many individual parts, there is a lot that is about a digital police, i.e. a patrol unit on the Internet. And in the wording from which I would just like to read out a little bit, the following is included:... a digital police patrol unit is being set up, which among other things. can patrol visibly in open groups on social media on the Internet...And a little further down it says, and this is where the detail is: Here a digital policeman will also be able to act as a moderating and guiding factor that can prevent violations... etc. I would like to hear Dansk Folkeparti: What does the Danish People's Party really put in the wording called moderating and guiding factor?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111353	Pretty common police work, as we know it, when we see a cop walking on the street and the cop discovers something. It may be one that runs without light on the bike, or it may be there are two on the bike. Then the cop says, "Jump off! Or: Remember to turn on the light, or you'll have to pull. You just have to remember: the Internet today is just like walking out in the public space where you are physically together. You're not on the Internet. It may be very good that, when there are children, young people and others who travel online, there may be an adult present who can then say: don't do that. I don't want you to share that. I want you to stop doing that! We think it's actually pretty good to teach them. So before it becomes a criminal case, it's really good that you have this instrument where the nice cop can say, "Stop it!" Be careful, or the hammer's gonna fall. And it has to be said that the network has become a huge place where people meet just like in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111444	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111446	Now it is not the case that freedom of expression is compared to driving without light on the bike. We actually have freedom of speech, and that's why you can decide a lot for yourself and answer for these things yourself. And it can of course worry a liberal soul if that is the meaning that is expressed here. However, I would like to make a quote from Radicals: if there is an unpleasant debate that is going in some crazy direction, does not serve any purpose and involves hateful utterances, it may be good that someone is just saying that it should go in a different direction and that it is not wise to do so. Do you need police to send messages to you online that what you say is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111535	This is just a thoughtful example of some boys writing about someone else. It's some boys from the eighth grade who write to each other, and then one boy writes, "You know what? Louise and I were just together yesterday, and I actually took some photos of Louise with my phone. Do you want to see them? There it might be very good if there was just an adult who, before he did it, wrote: You know what, Jonathan, don't send them. I think you should take that picture and erase it. Don't put that on the Internet. The punishment for putting out such a picture is actually quite high. And maybe he doesn't think about what punishment he gets for it. So we think that would be pretty good.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111607	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111611	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Before I turn to my question, I think I would just like to invite the rapporteur to withdraw his earlier remark that some people should have bought themselves for the press. I would just like to give him the opportunity to do so if he has regretted that he accused his colleagues of such things. But I have a question about economic policy. Denmark is one of the countries which, both economically and in terms of health, has managed best through the Corona crisis, but despite this, we face the challenge that unemployment has risen and, compared with last year, between 25 000 and 30.000 Danes have unfortunately lost their jobs. And the answer from the rapporteur's colleagues in the Left and the Conservative People's Party is that it should be easier to bring foreign labour to Denmark, even for a lower salary. I would really just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees with his colleagues in the Left and Conservatives that the answer that the Danish economy and the Danish labour market need now is to be able to bring foreign labour to the country; that our biggest problem is therefore a shortage of labour, while the government believes that our biggest challenge is to get jobs going and create jobs for the Danes who have lost their jobs during the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111719	There are two things. One has to say to the first about DR that DR was fully implementing the savings that were to be made in DR. DR had looked at their organisation and they had found out that they had too many directors and that they had too many pillars. They were adjusting to that reality. It must then be rolled back. Then you can think about it what you want. In relation to the second question, one has to say: No, we do not think that we should just open up to foreign labour, but one should just remember that, for example, in the United Kingdom. We have bottlenecks in the construction industry. In fact, it is not very good for Denmark that we have too many bottlenecks. We absolutely believe that the Danish labour market must always be searched for first, so that Danes have the job openings that are there, but we also feel that if there are some professions that are in a very special situation where they simply cannot provide labour, it must be possible, otherwise we will be a poorer society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111807	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111809	It was a both-and-answer. But let me ask you another disagreement that may be on the blue side. Now the Danish People's Party, together with the government, SF and Enhedslisten, has reached a very good agreement on a right to early retirement for those who have worked many years on the labour market, and we have previously been able to understand at Conservatives that they will roll it back. Today we must also understand on the Left that they will roll it back. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur how cohesion is in the blue block in relation to economic policy when such a substantial improvement in employees' rights is proposed rolled back by the rapporteur's comrades with the Left and the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111849	So we have good cooperation on economic policy. This is a small corner of it. It has to be said that it is of course about the economy, but it is also about a political direction, that is, what we are for some parties, and there we are different. It is quite right that we are a bourgeois-social party where others can be more liberal on that point. But that's where we're different. It's certainly not something that's gonna make you happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111912	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kathrine Olly, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222111917	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to try to stay a little longer on the agreement on Arnepensionen, because DF was included in the agreement, and we would like to thank you very much for holding hands during a potential tax increase on the share margin. It is good, sound financial responsibility on the part of DF to go in and say that they will not be involved. So thank you for closing it. On the other hand, the DF goes into another financing section with open eyes, and it is a question of finding a billion kroner in the job centre area, and I also know that the rapporteur has a solid municipal experience. So somehow the rapporteur must have gone into it with open eyes and said: yes, we can easily find that. So I'm really just like somebody standing outside looking in with wonder, curious about how DF is planning to find that money in the job centers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112013	Now it actually came to 1.1 billion. kr. It was not then the Danish People's Party that raised it to it; some other parties did. No, we clearly believe that the job centres should be set free. Well, we need to have more faith in the people who sit out there. Today it has to be said that the entire job center effort is running around distrust... people need to report in, they need to be interviewed. And today, if you talk to the employees in the job centres, they don't hold the conversations for the benefit of the citizen, they're holding the conversations for the sake of the system. Because if you don't hold the conversations, you don't get the compensation from the state, and then the funding falls. That's why you fight to get those conversations, and it has to go as fast as possible, because then you can get some more in, and then the money comes from the state. There we would much rather give freedom to the municipalities. For example, if you are an alcoholic today and therefore outside the labour market, you cannot actually get a detoxification offer in your job centre because it is over in social legislation. This means, for example, that working with your drug addiction or alcohol addiction cannot become an activation offer, and that is absolutely terrible if that is the problem. Why is Peter not in employment? It's because Peter drinks. Then he needs help to stop drinking. The municipalities cannot provide that today, but they must be given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112122	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112124	It was a super interesting and immense thing to say. That is why we are also surprised that the government and the Social Democrats have not gone in and used the employment area as a possible area for free community attempts. That is actually what the rapporteur is saying here and how we can do it. So what is the position of the Danish People's Party that the government has not proposed the area of employment for free municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112159	We are not really satisfied with this, because this should not be 4-5 municipalities that will be given the freedom of 98 municipalities. We certainly hope that this can be done with the agreements to be made, because this is not going to be easy. Well, believe me, finding a billion isn't all low-hanging fruit. There is also someone who has to give some control in this parliament to give the municipalities the opportunity to find 1 billion. kr. or 1,1 billion kr. It is a relatively large amount of money to find out there, and therefore the municipalities must also have relatively great freedom to organise their employment strategies forward-looking. So it's much better than a community attempt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112233	The next brief remark is to Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112237	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for his speech. In SF we believe that in order to earn a citizenship, Denmark must be taken into account. The rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression and gender equality must be upheld. That is absolutely fundamental. However, Mrs Krarup, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, did not agree with me that this is fundamental. Mrs Krarup believes that this is a matter for the United Nations and that it is a matter of inherited values to earn citizenship. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. René Christensen agrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112335	Getting Danish citizenship is one of the greatest gifts one can get, and we just have to recognise that very many of those who get Danish citizenship are unfortunately also being abused that citizenship. Therefore, the most important thing here is, firstly, to earn a Danish citizenship and, secondly, to be able to continue to retain Danish citizenship. There we have considered several times that it should be harder to get it, because we have been able to see that so many have abused Danish citizenship. The fact that you do not get Danish citizenship is not the same as the fact that you cannot be in Denmark and I say that more to those who listen. It's equally important to understand here. But what is also important is, of course, that if you abuse the fine mandate given to you by Danish citizenship, you should also be able to be deprived of it again. It's important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112425	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112426	Thank you for your answer, but that was not an answer to my question. That is absolutely right, and I fully agree that it is a privilege to have Danish citizenship, but my question was on something else. The rapporteur's party colleague believes that the values on which Danish society is based, namely the rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression, gender equality and taking Denmark into account, are a UN thing, because this is about inherited values. I would like to hear what the rapporteur means by inherited values and whether the things I listed are some UN things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112511	I do not have to deal with whether this is the UN thing, but I can relate to the fact that there is something inherited in it, and that is why we have the challenge of non-Western immigration. There is, of course, something cultural in it. We are as we are, as individuals. We are different in here, and it is also because of our upbringing that we are different. And it is a journey to acquire other values, also in relation to being a national of another country. Even though I traveled out into the world, I always wanted my Danish values with me, no matter where I was, even though they might not be in line with the country I was in. I have them in me, and I can't just give them away, so there's something inherited in what we're like as human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112551	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112554	I would like to return to the tension in social policy between the municipalities and the state in the way we approach things. It is funny that when the Danish People's Party shows its social nerves, it sometimes succeeds in reaching with Enhedslisten about similar things, for example. That the elderly should be treated well. For many years now, each of us has been trying to get some money set aside for it. Now we have succeeded, and I am glad that it has become something half-good at least. Now comes my question, because what about the elderly who work and who are now being asked to work longer, because a system has now been set up which means that the retirement age continues to increase: why should they?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112648	That is precisely what we have agreed with the government and the red bloc. It is precisely that we have created some tools to ensure that when the retirement age rises, we have something for those who may be worn out. Of course, we have a system for those who are really being worn out; it is, of course, an early retirement scheme. Then we have a senior early retirement pension, and now we have also created a right to early retirement, the so-called Arnepension. Now there are actually three tools. And I think you have to be careful about the fact that the Danes all their lives just go and look forward to them not being in the labour market anymore. I speak to a great many elderly people who are afraid of losing their jobs because they have grown older and who say that it means a lot to them, because that is where you have your colleagues. How many people have also had their social life with their colleagues they have had at work, etc.? I simply think that we have a wrong debate here in the Folketing when we think that the Danes will just get out of the labour market as soon as possible. It is certainly not all Danes who want it. I'm afraid somebody's gonna get worn out. It may be at work, and it may also be a ski accident that they have been in in their spare time, or something that has happened everywhere else. They may find it difficult to be in the labour market, and there we are so rich a society that we can handle that, and we are doing so, among other things. with the many arrangements that we have and of which the Danish People's Party is also a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112756	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112757	Now I'm not talking about those who are worn out in the real sense, but I'm talking about those who scramble. I'm talking about the people who a few days think they work really well at work. I fully agree that the vast majority of Danes want to work and the longer the better in many ways. But there are those who now every other day think it's going really well, and every other day experience that it's getting a little hard to figure it all out and things like that. Now I am talking about the fact that we are raising a retirement age, and when the rapporteur was asked before, he replied that it was because you were financially responsible. That is why I would like to ask: does this mean that the rapporteur is in the middle of the economic calculator, which finds that all elderly people, even when retirement age is rising, can continue to work more and more, thus taking it into account as the financial gain that lies in increasing by one year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112855	I think we should pay close attention to the fact that we have made it so that we do not have to search for an early retirement pension. It is a right that you have to leave before, and that right also has those who now have a slightly longer pension period. And then you have to remember that if, for example, we do. Looking back at the payroll, there were a lot of people who left already at the age of 60. Why would they do that? Yeah, because you could, and then you did just like that. In other words, with a retirement age, it is a little bit, even on the part of the employer, that when you reach retirement age, you also stop on the labour market. Now we actually have an opportunity that it is not the employer who says: you have now reached retirement age. Now, with the right to early retirement, we have created a scheme in which it is the worker who can say: now I think I have reached retirement age; now I do not feel I can contribute any more, and I also find it difficult to do so. It may be both physical, but for that matter also psychological, and the psychological is what is the difficult working environment, and that gives them the opportunity to go from 3 years before now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222112948	This gives the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party the opportunity to leave now, as there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is approaching the platform, and it is just being made clear, and that is Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222113013	2020 has become a year that I hadn't even imagined when we had Christmas and New Year's last. This, of course, is due to corona, which, like nothing else I can remember, has changed our lives, behavior and society. There must be a great thank you and thoughts sent to those people who have suffered victims through the coronapandemic: first of all warm and sad thoughts to those who have lost someone they have loved, or been through a difficult course of illness; also thoughts to the many who are isolated and experience loneliness, the vulnerable groups, the elderly; and thoughts to the many young people who have not received the education and education they need to create their future. I hope that the pandemic will soon be over and that we can catch up with the lost. Thanks for holding out. Thank you very much to the many employees around us who stand in front of us to help and service us others: health workers, teachers, front workers in transport, supermarkets, etc. Thank you all, and thank you in advance to all of you I didn't mention. It's also because of Corona that this finance law allocates funds to deal with the pandemic. Thank you very much today to the politicians and governments who have seen the Danish economy strong in recent decades. This allows us to borrow money to keep our hands under the hands of companies and to have a world-class health service. Thank you all for taking responsibility. Our economy is strong because it has been ensured that almost 3 million citizens work in Denmark. That is why I can only criticise here that the government has chosen to spend almost 3 billion. kr. 10,000 healthy people are pulling out of the labour market. It's totally irresponsible. That is why it is important that the government has promised us in Radicals that next year reforms will be made that will have at least 11 000 people in the workforce. We need a strong economy that can deal with crises and we need the efforts of those people. We're gonna keep the government up on that promise. Many have lost their jobs because of corona. Many have also had to close down their business. In particular, I would like to thank the mink growers and the followers who have made the greatest sacrifice. Even more people fear for their jobs and business. The recession in the economy is not over and neither is decommissioning. That is why the agreements behind the Finance Act are also aimed at creating jobs both now and in the future. For example, holiday money is released to hold hands during the experience economy and cultural life. Money is set aside to renovate buildings, make bike paths, invest green, for example. in getting oil pine out of our houses and green energy instead, and taxes are lightened for business, especially on green investments. It all creates jobs. Also thanks to those who have the green heart placed in the right place, also under corona. Again this year I can proudly announce that we in the Radical Left are pleased to be able to count millions of tonnes of CO2 We have taken steps once more towards our climate targets. However, we are not in the finish line. It is always a struggle to have the government's black talk replaced by green action. So thanks to you guys who help push. For the Radical Left, it has been the main priorities that savings on culture, nature, education and the media have been reversed by this financial law. Education gives each individual the strength and freedom to create his life as he pleases. Education is Denmark's raw material. The previous government chose to save every year. You sawed in the branch we're sitting on. With this financial law, it has turned, so now we are again investing in education, in our future, in the opportunities of our citizens. We are very pleased about that. Cultural life and critical media strengthen our society, create common values and experiences, strengthen and challenge our democracy, our culture and our values. We are very pleased that this Finance Act will put an end to the savings on Denmark's Radio and provide additional funding for the media in the future. We are also very pleased and proud that with the Finance Act we are giving a big and historic boost to cultural life. It was about time and had to be. For years the number of species and plants in Danish nature has been declining. For us, protection of our nature is also welfare. We're gonna put hundreds of millions into nature in this finance bill. I am also very pleased that we will clean up the first generation of pollutions. It is a disgrace that there are poisons from the past around our nature. Now we're gonna start this cleanup, and it's all missing. The Radical Left is very critical of the failure of the Social Democratic Party to take new steps towards more common sense in foreign policy. It makes no sense that new citizens taking an education in Denmark cannot obtain a residence permit. It is a waste of talent and money spent on their education and it is damaging integration. It is not new citizens who have taken an education in Denmark that poses the major problem. Then why doesn't the government want to encourage more people to take an education? It just doesn't make sense. Nor does it make sense for some 600 Danish citizens to have their spouse expelled from abroad every year. We're breaking up families. According to the Ministry of Finance, the spouses of Danish citizens are a contribution of 75 million. kr., and according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, their crime is less than that of ethnic Danes, and Danish citizens must support their spouses for at least 8 years. So what's the problem? Yes, for tactical reasons the government will mean nothing other than the Left Party; there should be no difference. And then Danes have to leave their homeland for love. I am ashamed that for tactical reasons in this Parliament we cannot have a debate about the unreasonable parts of our alien law. But I can promise you that the Radical Left will never give up that fight. In the negotiations, the Radical Left wanted to bring red and blue together to solve real problems. When we can show a new green direction together in the Folketing, for example for our transport or our companies, we can really move something, gain the trust and support of our citizens and create the change that is needed. Broad agreements create trust, change and momentum. That is why I would like to thank the bourgeois parties, particularly the Left and the Conservatives, for the agreements we have made together. Thank you for your insistence that business conditions be included in our joint agreements. Therefore, also thanks to the left for the cooperation and your insistence on social improvements and green transition. Together, we've got a lot going. And thanks to the government for moving, not least in the green area, so that together we have been able to make good and broad agreements. On behalf of the Radical Left, I can say that we will be voting in favour of the amendments which implement the agreements we are part of agreements that we believe make Denmark green, free and strong. And by the end of the afternoon or tonight, we will of course vote in favour of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222113937	Thank you. Then we have come to the brief remarks. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222113944	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Thank you, too, from the Left, for your excellent cooperation with the Radical Left. Therefore, it was also with satisfaction that one could see that the speech is also based on how to make Denmark richer, which is something that I also know that we and the Radical Left agree on long stretches. After all, there is the prospect of discussing what can make the cake bigger, if you may say so, in other words how our common prosperity can grow. How and how does the Radical Left think it should be dealt with? I'm asking because we're just observers outside the circles where this decision has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114026	Unfortunately, it is a matter of limiting the damage caused by the agreement made by the government, the left and the Danish People's Party to withdraw 10,000 people from the labour market. One of the reforms we could make together was a tax reform, and in the agreement we have made together, we have written that the next stages could include increasing the workforce. It could also be getting more of the people who are outside the labour market into work. It could be the young people who are not doing anything, and also the new dancers who are not in work. There we could also make some reforms that brought them into the labour market. These could also be other areas of labour market policy where we could make some reforms together. But it's the most beautiful thing, and I think that's what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen and I agree that it would have been better not to introduce this early retirement where healthy people are paid for not working instead of contributing and making an effort to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114125	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114128	I very much agree that there is not much about the early withdrawal, which is solidarity. In fact, it is not necessarily the weakest who are being helped. But whatever it is, there's nothing we can do about it now. But can the rapporteur give a look into the engine room when it comes to when we are going to discuss it? I understand that, after all, it is not the Radical Left that sits in the government, but it is, however, a support party for the government. In the Left's view, it is crucial that we discuss what it is that is needed to make Denmark richer. Unfortunately, this government has taken initiatives that have made us 12 billion. kr. poorer, and something needs to be done about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114209	I fully agree with that, and that is why we took great note of the fact that Mr. Nicolai Wammen or the Minister of Finance I have some doubts about what is correct to call him, since he is on maternity leave • said that next year the government will present initiatives to provide 11,000 extras in the workforce. It has been important to us that the government has said this very clearly, and we look forward to doing so, and we also hope that the Left will be involved, because there is enough need for cooperation across the middle to create a majority for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114239	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114242	Then we really have radicals on the platform; then you have this one-sided, one-eyed focus on labour supply and on this torment, which is to look at something, in relation to whether you couldn't push, twist, threaten the last theoretical ability out of the last senior, who will then be allowed to experience being strapped to on their way out of the door that they have got into on their way out of the labour market. But since the supply of labour means so much to the Radical Left, I assume that Mr. Andreas Steenberg is aware of the completely new study by the AE Council, which has actually arrived today, which shows that we do have a net unemployment of 126,300 people, a gross unemployment of 139,600 people, and then comes the interesting thing, namely the concept of AKU unemployment, which is very much at stake in Eurostat, and I am sure that Mr. Andreas Steenberg also knows how many we have, who would be interested in having a job but who does not have it today. We're up to 297,000 people there. If we add to that the 89 000 people who work part-time and who want extra hours, then we are up to 385 000 people who want to work. Where is the problem with the supply of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114350	I should like to say straight away that I have not read that analysis, so I do not think we should discuss it. But we can take it later, sir. Karsten Hønge. Looking through the history of Denmark, the last 20-30 years of increasing the number of people in the labour force have also led to more jobs, and this has meant that our economy has been strengthened. And the SF has also been involved in this when the SF was in government. So we think that's wise. But there is also correct, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned that the trade union movement is very concerned that we also have to make initiatives that create And this Finance Act certainly contains a lot in relation to labour demand. For example, there are not enough available educators to make the minimum standards that we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114445	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114446	I am sure that you simply have to live in a radicalised Radical Left ghetto in order to imagine that the challenge is that we should have more people on the labour market when, in the third quarter of 2020, we have a potential of 385 000 people. It's not connected at all, sir. Andreas Steenberg. No, the task is to create jobs so that the potential of 385,000 people can get out to work and not to put even more in line with the 385,000 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114518	You don't have to live in a particular place to see that there aren't really any unemployed educators. So when we have a common ambition to get more educators in our kindergartens and crèches, there is a lack of educators. One does not have to live in a particular place to see that we lack craftsmen of virtually every kind. So you don't have to live in a certain place to see that. We lack labour in several areas, and one of the major challenges we have is that the available labour we have does not have the training that matches the job openings. That is why it is important to invest in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114554	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114557	I would also like to thank you for a good course of negotiations. We have our differences and we have our differences. We also have our agreements, and I think that this Financial Act and the Finance Act we are discussing today also show that there is a common basis. Then there are also areas where, unfortunately, we do not have a common basis, and here I am thinking in particular of the green tax reform. I think it really is a pity that the Radical Left has joined it. And one of the things that I think is really unfortunate is that up to 2025 more than 5 billion will be spent. kr. (i) tax reductions and tax rebates to industry, without there being any guarantee that they will go for green conversion. This money will also go to some of the most polluting companies. I think it would be financially responsible to use the funds we have in the Community to ensure that, when we work for the green transition, we also actually ensure that tax reductions and rebates do not go to black companies, fossil companies, but go to the green transition. So can the Radical Left not explain why it was a great idea to give all these tax rebates to companies, even to the most polluting ones, when we could have spent the money in a better way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114708	First of all, I would like to thank you for recognising that our two parties have focused very much on the things we could agree on and then have them implemented. And thank you very much for the cooperation we have had in the area of climate change. After all, we have achieved a great many things, for example. in the field of transport. Sir. Rune Lund is quite right that this green tax reform is inadequate. Much more needs to be done, and what we have chosen, unlike the Enhedslisten, is to say that with the agreement that lies there are some ships put in the lake that we would like to follow in port. And we have to see if we can succeed in getting the Socialists and the Left to make the uniform CO2 we think that what was there is too little, but it makes sense because an extra tax on corporate pollution is being imposed in a few years' time, and then you give them an investment window now here. And then it would be ridiculous if the individual company did not make sure to invest in something that would make it possible to get rid of the increased taxes in the future. At least that's how we think it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114810	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114811	Well, it's just so damn bad that the billions given to companies here are going to the most polluting companies too, and that's just a bad way to spend the money if we want to ensure the green transition. What worries me a little is that these are, in fact, some tax rebates for business, and I know that the Radical Left also likes that, but it is just like the green transition. Has the desire to make these big tax discounts for business really been greater than the desire to work for the green transition? Because in the green tax reform there is also the fact that we are going to have CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114852	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114853	As I said before, we would have liked to have made the uniform CO2 so what we have tried is to set in motion a process in which, hopefully, the Social Democracy and the Left over time can add votes to this, and that is why we have agreed to the agreement. Then it is quite correct that, as a social liberal, I have no objection to the fact that, in a time of crisis like this, tax cuts are also being made in order to get some jobs going. And if, at the same time, it can go in a green direction, we can be part of it. But I'm gonna give Mr. Knox one more time. Rune Lund is right that much more needs to be done in the area of taxation in order to achieve our climate targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114936	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222114937	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much to the rapporteur for the compliments on transport. It's very mutual. We have been really, really happy with the joint cooperation that has been over the middle in this case. As far as transport is concerned, I would like to know how the rapporteur feels about the fact that this financial law does not provide any money whatsoever for the expansion of our infrastructure. There are many, many thousands of people who have lost their jobs over the last year and a half in the asphalt industry alone, compared to the fact that the plans that were have been abandoned and that we have not moved forward. Could the rapporteur try to put some words into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115021	I am very pleased with that question because, like Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen I love transport policy and infrastructure. There is nothing else that can create the future of Denmark in both climate-friendly and business-friendly directions, and that is why I look forward to having to make that infrastructure plan at some point. I think, like the government, that it is very wise to wait and make a broad agreement on it and take it for itself and not as part of the Finance Act. In order to give an answer to the asphalt industry, which I know too, I would like to say that the Finance Act and the agreements behind it provide for the municipalities to have quite ample room for manoeuvre for installations, which I am sure they will use, among other things. to maintain roads and a large pool of money is set aside for bike paths. So I am quite sure that those companies will have something to order in the coming year, and then I am also sure that next year will offer that hopefully we will have the broad agreement in the Danish Parliament on what roads and paths will be built for the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115122	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115124	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for that commitment. As far as the aviation industry is concerned, we have also been in serious difficulties here in 2020. There have been some indications that we cannot really do so much in 2021 so far. Is the rapporteur going to help with the allocation of funds to that industry so that it can be restarted after this covid-19 one day is over?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115157	Yes, we have been involved in this in the past, and what is the big problem for the aviation industry is that you cannot deliver your product to your customers because of corona, and that is what makes it very difficult to find out what you really need to do. But when we can get started, I think we should also keep our hands on that industry and those jobs; that goes without saying. I should also like to mention that the aviation industry can also participate in the many aid packages we have made, so a lot of money goes that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115224	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115227	Thank you. Here comes a prediction of how the year 2021 can take place in Danish politics. At the beginning of 2021, a committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry, will be launched to investigate Mette Frederiksen's mink scandal. The fear in the government of the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry to come, within a year of starting work, is so great that the Prime Minister will issue elections in the autumn of 2021. What, then, is the result of the compensatory measures promised by the Radical Left, where extra employment is to be found in Danish society, which is equivalent to the 11 000 which this government and the red majority have already inflicted on Danish society? What is the promise to the Radical Left if the Prime Minister issues elections in the autumn of 2021 because she is afraid of the conclusion of a committee of inquiry into mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115331	Well, this is such an exciting time Hans Engell-Thomas Larsen, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and I are about to get started, and then we can write our different analyses, and I think that's a little outside of what the Finance Act is all about, after all. However, if there were to be elections in the autumn of 2021, then we have a number of months to get some initiatives adopted to ensure financial accountability, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115358	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115400	This is an example that illustrates the danger when you first cut employment in Denmark with various initiatives and then say: at some point in the future we will do something that will sort it out. This is the deal that the Radical Left has made and is very pleased about, but this example shows the danger of it. I just want to hear: does that mean that the Radical Left is simply convinced that by the autumn of 2021, the Radical Left has agreed with the government that employment in Denmark will be increased by at least 11 000 to compensate for the damage already done by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115440	Of course, that's what we're going for. Well, then I just want to come with you here, why the government, like Mr. Simpson... Ole Birk Olesen calls it damage. Yes, the government has, because the Danish People's Party delivered the votes to it, i.e. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's upcoming support party and previous support party. It is, of course, only right to bear in mind that, when the bourgeois side hascelerates against the Radical Left, it is a so-called bourgeois party which, together with the government and the left, has created the problems. We hope to be able to help clean up after that. It will probably require that some bourgeois parties also vote in favour, otherwise there will probably not be 90 seats behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115518	Thank you. Then I jumped an inquirer from New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, over in the first place, but now it's Mr. Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115526	It is perfectly understandable; I am a small speck! I would like to ask the rapporteur a few questions. There are, of course, some things on which we disagree, and I would like to see if we could find some things on which we might agree, and that is whether the rapporteur could point out some specific taxes that would make sense in the radicals' optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115556	Thank you. Let me mention two: the tax on labour and the tax on corporate research and investment in creating new products and new jobs. These are two things we would like to take off. On the other hand, we are in favour of raising taxes on what we would like to see less of, for example. pollution, unhealthy foods and other things. And that is what we are hoping for future tax reform to do, in other words to move taxes around so that we can promote job creation and then reduce what we want less, for example pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115629	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115631	Thank you. What about generational change fees? This is something that we know costs jobs out there. Was that something that Radicals could think of? Now there is talk of reform and then there is talk of first-generation and second-generation reforms, and I am a little concerned if the approach is that it becomes a focus on second-generation reforms. Because they're a little birds on the roof, that's a little bit: we may be hoping for an effect out there, we haven't always fully illuminated it. There is sometimes a problem with them saying that they have not actually elucidated the effects of it, but that they assume and expect it to have an effect, whereas first-generation reforms have a more concrete effect on it. Could Radicals talk a little bit about both the generational change tax and then about whether it is first or second-generation reforms that they want to focus on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115716	I don't care what you call the reforms, as long as they work. Because I fully agree with Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen in that they must be counted. I also agree that no one has shown this yet with regard to these so-called second generation reforms. If you can come up with that, we'd be happy to count them in. The most important thing for us is that it works. In relation to the change of generation, we have set up a committee to work on how to settle what is to be taxed. In our opinion, this can be done better and therefore more fair to companies. But I would also like to say straight away that I think it is fair enough that you have to pay a tax when you are changing your generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115753	Thank you. Now we are through the line of questioners who are rapporteurs, but brief remarks are still missing. But I choose to wait for lunch until we have finished the brief remarks, for the sake of the rapporteurs and also the continuity of the debate. But it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115812	Thank you. I am pleased that the radical rapporteur insists so much on increasing the supply of labour, and this shows very well that the Radical Left is the only little financially responsible party in the red block. I also hope that when we stand here next year, there will be a reality and that we have actually adopted a plan that increases the supply of labour. But there is something that disappoints me with this financial law, and that is that the Radical Left is helping to eliminate free elections in the field of children. This Finance Act introduces a profit ban on private day-care institutions, which will lead to the winding-up of private day-care institutions. How could you be involved in this when, fortunately, you do not want to be part of it in the social field?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115853	First of all, I agree with Mrs Bjerre that I hope that next year we will have adopted reforms that strengthen the economy, and our two parties have a long tradition of daring to join forces. So let's hope it can be done. In relation to private social services and private day-to-day services, etc. We are of the opinion that we have nothing in principle against private operators in these areas. But we can see a problem in that one can make too much money or do it in a way that we cannot stand by because it is still public tax dollars that are being spent. That is why our position is 'yes' to private players, and it is not certain that we can always get through with it and get 90 mandates behind it, but also 'yes' to regulating how it should be done and how much money they can make from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115947	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222115948	It sounds so fortunately that the Radical Left cannot defend it here, because it is precisely not against private people, and I am, after all, pleased about that. But then, instead of fighting to set a profit ceiling, we should have fought. After all, it is crazy to introduce a profit ban, because this also leads to the dismantling of the private day-care institutions, which would like to develop welfare services. Why hasn't it been more determined? You could have fought for a profit ceiling instead of a total profit ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120019	Well, it doesn't work out that there may be private offers. However, the fact that there may be private offers where you make a lot of money, and we can easily stand by that. That is why we have entered into that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120029	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120031	During last year's Finance Law debate, we had a long discussion about the government's desire to lower the ratio of coupling to free schools. It was also an attack following what Mrs Bjerre says, namely an attack on free elections. Fortunately, a majority in the Folketing, including the Radical Left, prevented the government from doing so. I was glad to hear that. That is why I was somewhat disappointed when we were able to see earlier this year that some of the extra funds allocated in the field of primary school have been chosen by the government and the Radical Left to keep out of the way in which the coupling rate is calculated. It doesn't matter how you do it when the reality is that with that exercise there are 1,000 DKK. less to a student in a free school than to a student in a public school because you choose to leave it outside. How can the Radical Left defend being part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120137	I fully agree with Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We would very much like that money to be distributed in such a way that they also count with the free schools. There are other parties that do not agree with this, and that is why it has not been possible to obtain a majority. Unfortunately, we cannot cooperate with the Left in this matter, because the Left has not been willing to find more money for the primary school area. So, unfortunately, there we have a discussion with the parties with which we had made that agreement. There we are certainly fighting for the free schools to have a share in that money over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120209	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120211	But it's not just in the open school area. This also applies to the day-care sector. The funds are also distributed in such a way that private individuals do not get a share in them. I mean, it's going to be geographically extremely awkward. In the City of Copenhagen it is 9.2%. of the children who get nothing, on Funen it is 35%, and in Thisted Municipality it is over 50%. of the children who do not get part of the appropriations. Does the Radical Left think that this is a fair way of distributing money and ensuring that parents have a genuinely free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120248	Somebody was just talking down in the hall. We would have liked to see a different distribution in these areas, and we are fighting for that. But I must also say that we are mainly proud that we have managed to get some extra money for these areas, unlike when the questioner's party was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120309	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120313	First of all, I would like to welcome you as rapporteur for the financial sector. It's so good to see Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg in that role. I would also like to thank the Radical Left for standing by and making reforms in order to be able to spend the money. I think it is a huge hypocrisy, for example. Mr. Karsten Hønge stand and oppose labour market reforms and that you also really want to spend the money in the Finance Act. Well, then you have to find out if you want one thing or the other. But to get back to the question that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen asked: what kind of labour market reforms should be: I think it is easy to point out just tax reform, which is well known that the rest of the red bloc will not be involved in implementing it. And then the other things: more young people in work or more new dancers in work. How could Mr. Andreas Steenberg see that you can get more young people to work, or more new dancers to work? In other words, what specific examples do we really think can be given in order to provide the labour supply which has unfortunately been lost with the reforms that the government has carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120418	Thank you for the praise and welcome and support for our reform policy. And I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Kristian Jensen in that it is a little strange that the left can use the money from all the reforms against which the left has been opposed. I think that is hypocritical too; that you have no problem with it. But now to the question: the most obvious, sir. Kristian Jensen, of course, would have been that this early pension had not been completed, and we could hope that at some point there would be a majority to change it. Then I mentioned a number of areas. There are these so-called second-generation reforms, and it is quite true that there are no concrete steps in it yet, and that is what is sitting there and trying to find out. Then you can make the classic reforms, which could be a tax reduction at work; it could be, for example, to strengthen the employment effort so that more people get into work; to make more activation. It could be foreign labour, with which I also agree with the Left. So there is a broad spectrum of initiatives that could be made and that we would be ready to go into.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120524	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120526	Thank you for your answer. Now, sir. Andreas Steenberg did not just become a financial rapporteur. Andreas Steenberg has also become Vice-President of the Radical Parliament Group, and then one can hardly become more central. You can see what has happened to all the previous Vice-Presidents of the radical parliamentary group. However positive it may sound, I think it may be difficult to find something that can bring a real majority into the red block. So I would just like to hear: what consequence will the Radical Left draw if, in the next few years, it fails to provide the labour that will be removed with government reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120604	We find it difficult to imagine that the Left will not be able to carry it through if the Social Democrats come forward with reform proposals, and that is why we are operating with the scenario that this is going to happen. If we do not, we will have to decide when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120617	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120621	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. It is always the case that I have high expectations when the Radicals come forward with their draft budget, especially when we have a red government, and we certainly do have that now. Let me start by saying that profit is, after all, this old Marxist-Communist concept that is used to scare the population in relation to these business owners who are exploiting the working people. Denmark is not like that. How can Radicals agree to make a profit ban? Because it's a surplus ban. After all, it is not about profit as such a negative thing. It is the profits out there that are spent on making green investments that are spent on all the good things that they go around doing in companies. The Socialist-supported Finance Act is, therefore, probably the reddest financial law we have seen since the 1970s, and I think that is something we must agree with. But what are these fingerprints that Radicals are going to put in this Finance Act? The reddest since the 1970s?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120737	I do not think this is the reddest financial law at all. I do not think that is red politics, for example. to do something about the climate. Nor do I think it is red politics, left-wing politics, to invest in education. I have also noticed that the Left has put forward proposals for a biodiversity law. Is it so left-wing policy that we have set a little over 800 million? kr. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is it really red politics to strengthen media and culture? I hope that a number of citizens will be able to see themselves in that way. A part of the Finance Act is, of course, as Mr. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten was talking about giving tax relief to business to get green investment going. Is this really a red finance bill? So I'm not buying that premise at all, sir. Valentine.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120827	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120829	Thank you. So may I make a small assessment, because it is Radicals who are the liberal bulwark in the Finance Act or what? The Danes are becoming poorer, we are getting less growth, the companies are getting harder to run their business, the labour supply is falling, the debt is rising, the state is getting bigger and the free choice is disappearing. I really don't think things are going very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120856	That is not correct. Labour supply does not fall as a result of the Finance Act. The job offer falls because the Left Support Party, the Danish People's Party, has made an agreement with the government and the left in September, I think it was. That's not gonna happen with the Finance Act. The Finance Act doesn't make this country poorer. On the contrary, it makes it richer. We invest in creating jobs, facilitating the tax on businesses, investing in training. It's making the country richer... it's not gonna get poorer with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120924	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120927	I would like to return to the debate on the free choice of day-to-day services. Now much has been discussed about the form of ownership, the ban on profit, etc., and I would like to ask Mr. Andreas Steenberg on the crux of this debate: which children will be better off as a consequence of the ban on private institutions which the Radical Left has voted on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222120957	There is no ban. There is a regulation of how much money you can earn from running a private kindergarten, for example. I think that by far the majority of children will get the same offer as they were given before, but on the other hand it may be that there are some who earn something less from the institutions they operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121017	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121018	First, we need to correct a misunderstanding. With the agreement of the Radical Left, it will be forbidden to create new private institutions. So it's not about the level of what to earn, you just can't make any more. But is it a realization from Mr. Andreas Steenberg that not a single child will get better as a result of the Radical Left's decision, and why do they do so? Why is socialist ideology left above the child's best interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121051	Neither do we. We let common sense come first, and we think it is common sense that there is a limit to how much money can be made from operating an institution, which I should just like to stress has been paid by the public authorities. Well, it's the public who pays, and then you choose to make a lot of money from it. That is why I think that, as a state and as a public authority, criteria must be laid down as to how much money can be earned, given that it is the Community that has paid the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121115	Thank you. Then it is the last to make brief remarks before lunch, and that is Mr. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121120	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to repeat things from my colleagues, at least my colleagues from the Left, who have praised the rapporteur's speech, because it really was a fine speech with a lot of optimism, including green optimism, and then there was some bite in it in relation to the fact that you are the party behind the government holding onto financial responsibility. So thank you for fighting the fight now that you have chosen to support a red government, so fight for us not to make Denmark poorer. We hope and believe that you stand firm. I would then like to ask the rapporteur, whom I consider to be a wise man, whether he cannot comment on the analysis which Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen earlier came along where he said that this early pension is actually a contribution to economic growth in Denmark, because by making this early withdrawal one actually holds hands during the welfare settlement and thus, despite the withdrawal of 10,000 people from the labour force, actually ends up making Denmark richer. Does the rapporteur agree with that analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121218	No, I'm not. It is a bad idea to spend so much money pulling 10,000 healthy people out of the labour market. This makes the country poorer, and it is exactly the opposite of what has been done over the past many decades. And as I mentioned in my speech, the financial responsibility that has existed is, of course, the prerequisite for our small country to be able to cope so well through a Corona crisis, as we at least have seven or nine rights! So it is quite irresponsible, as I said in my speech, that the agreement between the government, the left and the Danish People's Party has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121304	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121306	Thank you. I understand that there has been a promise made by the current Minister for Finance, who is on maternity leave, in relation to the fact that during 2021 there will be:... concrete initiatives that will ensure about 11,000 in increased work provision. So this says it's gonna happen in 2021. Let us now say that we will be here in six months' time at the end of the debate and there has not yet been a single concrete initiative, is that satisfactory for the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121340	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222121344	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no more brief comments. Now there is a lunch break, which means that the sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00 where it shall resume.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222130005	The sitting is resumed. We'll continue with sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222130015	Amber-Aage had the motto: You're never a loser until you give up. Aage Hansen lived on and with the fantastic nature around Limfjorden. He was a fisherman, and in his spare time he gathered amber. And then he was one of Denmark's first environmental activists. He experienced the dangerous waste from Cheminova's factory, which was dumped directly in the wild, first in the sea, and later it was dug under the dunes at polite 42. Birds and fish die in front of him. He says the fish smell like chemicals and feces when they get fried. So he starts freezing them down and sending them to Copenhagen to show the politicians that here we have a problem. I won't give in until my childhood paradise is restored, even if I have to stand there alone, said Aage. But he wasn't alone. SF has been able to talk a cow backwards out of a clover field about the importance of cleaning up these generational pollutions in the Danish Parliament and anywhere else where we have been able to hear it. With the Finance Act, we'll get started. And we think of Aage's fantastic motto: You're never a loser until you give up. The motto also fits well on a group of members of SF's youth organisation, SFU, who ten years ago sat in a basement room in Odense. A young man tells of his girlfriend who has changed from being a happy young woman to suffering from anxiety. He tells me she wants to see a psychologist, but she can't afford it. This little group isn't gonna put up with that, because why should it be the wallet that decides if you can get help? They went on the street because they thought they could change the world, including the very near one, on the basis that no one should sit alone with depression, darkness and anxiety, because the wallet is empty. And next year, young people will be entitled to free psychological assistance. Because you're never a loser until you give up. This was also the conclusion of a teacher in West Himmerland two years ago. Instead of giving up, she decided to fight. She saw how children who needed contact and care lost when the days were just about survival. She found a piece of paper and a marker and wrote: It is 11:30, and I am alone with 17 children in a living room. She shared the call on Facebook. It spread like a wildfire. The fight was supported by parents who had long felt that something was wrong. The SF took the educators' proposal for minimum standards into the Assembly Hall, and it was then voted down ironically on the same day as a documentary on television showed that the educator from West Himmerland had a call that could be relevant in day-care institutions across the country. "Where is an adult?" was the documentary, which started a whole movement of parents who did not intend to give up and thank you for it. With the Finance Act, we decide that there must be minimum statutory standards, that there must be an end to cuts for the smallest children. We must take better care of the most precious thing we have, namely the very small children. Because you're never a loser until you give up. The trade union movement has been tirelessly pointing out for years that tens of thousands of unskilled jobs are disappearing and that tens of thousands of skilled or medium training people need adult, continuing training throughout their lives. Training adults needs a proper bucket of coal, and with up to half a billion kroner on the new Finance Act we at least give the effort some bucketfuls. It becomes more tempting for companies and employees to participate in job rotation. This benefits both the company, the permanent employee, the unemployed and society. Rarely has money been spent better than when, in this way, we strengthen the foundations, both for the individual, for the labour market and for society. In addition, there is better help on the way to those who didn't get so much from primary school or, for example, from school. is dyslexic. There is a long way to go before the effort matches the real need for upskilling, but we are warming up well. Many young people are looking for an internship and good initiatives have been taken, including: in the latest tripartite agreement. Unfortunately, however, I am quite sure that both the Folketing and the employers have a lot of work ahead of them when this distress is to be broken. But we're not giving up. When you believe in change, you insist on change. Aage did, Bjarne did, the young people in Odense did, the active educators, the tireless parents, and the trade union movement does. With this Finance Act, we're giving back the hope of a positive change. After years of cuts in welfare and education and with tax cuts to the richest and other decisions that undermine the community, we are now making a financial law that changes that course. We invest in the care of the elderly, in education and in children. We invest in art and culture and in public service. We invest in our nature and in the green transition. The belief in change is back thanks to the educator from Vesthimmerland, the young people in Odense and the trade union movement, thanks to Rav-Aage and Bjarne Hansen. And thanks to all of you who never gave up. Thanks to all of you who never give The spirit there will be needed when new fence posts are to be moved. We've reached a point with this finance bill, but new games are right in front of us. This time we didn't get the benefits fixed, but neither the trade union movement nor the SF have given up. The daily allowance is simply too poor in relation to wages, and I think that the government should set itself an ambitious goal and take the lead in a recovery plan for daily allowances and security. If developments continue, in 2025 the daily allowance will amount to only 44 per cent. of an industrial worker's salary, and of course much less for high-paid workers. In addition, the period of benefit has been shortened, the recovery has been made more difficult and the tax value of the deduction has deteriorated. This whole process is reminiscent of the peasant who wanted to save money on the horse. Then he started cutting down on the feed. After all, things were going very well for a while, because the horses were still working away well enough. It was a strong horse, and the farmer saved money. The sting took over, and eventually he stopped feeding the animal completely, but he expected it to work on. But one day the horse died. Our system of daily allowances and cashiers is a bit in the same situation. If we do not start feeding the benefit system, Members will drop insurance, and this important trait for the labour market and the welfare society will die. Fortunately, fortunately, the number of poor children in Denmark has fallen slightly in the last few years. On the other hand, it also happened from a very high level. Poverty hits rock hard, and tens of thousands of children have been bruised by the encounter with the icy social reality. We have a long way to go before we can face ourselves and the children. The welfare society must be measured by how we treat the most disadvantaged, and that is not good enough. Poverty is a tattoo that children find difficult to erase later in life. Children raised in poverty are at risk of poorer education, longer periods of unemployment and lower income as adults. And the more years children live in poverty, the worse they do in school. The Commission must complete its work by 2021, and it must be the year in which we abolish poverty benefits and seriously lift those who have the least. SF has the ambition, and we take Aage's motto to heart. Let's keep fighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222130931	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief comments. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222130936	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge for an always colorful speech. I myself have had the pleasure of hearing it many times, not just the same speech, but the points in the debates in this Chamber earlier. What I just want to ask you is the whole discussion that is going on about how to increase the cake. It is not a secret that there are different views. How does SF view a model where Denmark gets richer? What, according to the SF, is it necessary for Denmark to become richer as a society? And I guess we can all hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131018	It's a core issue, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen puts forward, because regardless of party membership, that is one of the things we are concerned with, that is, how we create a richer society. We think the answers are right in front of us. I mentioned some of them in my speech. In other words, when we know that tens of thousands of unskilled jobs are being closed down, that more skilled people are being needed and that more people are being needed to receive medium-term training, one of the answers is that we simply get more people to take vocational training and get more people to take long-term training. It is crazy to imagine that we are talking about wanting to make society richer, while we have 70,000 between 15 and 29 years of age, who do not have an education, are not in education and are not in employment either. So the answer lies in basic education and adult, continuing training throughout life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131110	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131111	Thank you for that answer. It is quite true that there are some obvious challenges to replacing some of the jobs lost with other jobs. But is there anything else in SF's world picture that needs to be done to maintain our prosperity or actually expand it, other than education? Is there a need to do something to strengthen Danish business, or does Danish business have the framework conditions that are needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131138	I am sure we share the pleasure that Danish companies and the business climate in Denmark are simply among the world's best. Now recently I saw the list on Forbes with how we again hit everyone at the top of the table. So that's really good. I think we should just say that there is a huge difference between the challenges faced by companies. Yes, there are some who really have problems, especially in these coronatides, but at the same time there are other companies that are shoveling in profits that simply blow up all the frames. There's a lot of money to get from the companies, from the banks, from the stockholders who have enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131214	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131217	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The Danish People's Party is very pleased that the SF has also put the generation pollutants on the agenda. The Danish People's Party has also done so in the past in connection with the Finance Act. What I would then like to ask is what the rapporteur also says: we are now getting started. But it is not a pity that the whole amount has not been set aside, i.e. the 2.7 billion. kr.? After all, we have suggested in the past that this was actually done by borrowing, because there is also a good return. It has to be said that we are making all sorts of other things, that is to say we are making borrowings, for example. The North Sea Agreement and other things. So it is not something that will affect welfare to a particularly significant extent, and that is why the Danish People's Party has also made a proposal that we say in this way now that we are clearing all the ten largest known ones in the future over a 10-year period. The SF cannot vote in favour of this and, of course, I recognise it because they are part of a financial agreement. But does the SF not recognise that we should have made a decision to start with them all, also because there is actually a basis for decision so that we could make that decision in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131321	Yes, and I am also pleased with the partnership with the Danish People's Party on this serious challenge. But we can also say that we are now getting set, as I recall, 640 million. kr. This is the first stage agreed with the regions. I really think that is a very good starting point for moving on with it, because there is no doubt about the end result. Everything needs to be cleaned up. But when we phase this in, I actually think it's a good way to do it according to the plan that the regions have said: phase one, 640 million. kr. And then the rest of the money will have to be set aside. René Christensen is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131358	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131359	Thank you. Yes, we are also pleased that we have started. I have another question, and it's about spouse addiction. This has meant a lot to Karsten Hønge and also to Pia Olsen Dyhr, who is chairman of the SF. She has written on her facebook page that this should be resolved in the context of financial law negotiations. Is it the case that it is the Social Democratic Party that has fought so hard against looking at spouse dependency that it was not included in the Finance Act, or has the SF forgotten to take it up in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131432	I can at least say that the SF has not forgotten to take it up. But that was what came out of it; we were not able to get through with that requirement. But as it was throughout my speech: we do not give up. You're just a loser the day you give up. That partner dependency is completely hopelessly old-fashioned. The fact that an early retirement worker who happens to be fortunate enough to be married to another person who earns an okay salary can experience being in the pocket of the partner is hopelessly old-fashioned and it must be abolished. We didn't succeed this time, but we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131506	Then it's Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131507	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It's nice to hear that SF doesn't give up, and it's also nice to hear that SF is so preoccupied with employment and continuing education. Therefore, it may be a bit surprising in the Radical Left that the SF has nods to find 1.1 billion without blinking. kr. in the area of job centre in the context of the early retirement agreement. What exactly does the SF think of the savings achieved at the municipal job centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131540	In any case, I would like to confirm that this will be a major task. Now the conciliation circle has committed itself to finding that money. For SF, the money must be found without harming the people who need help and guidance at the job centres. On the other hand, there are some places where it is quite obvious that you can find them. If we take the best-run job centres and confront those who are worst-managed, we can actually find over 2 billion. kr. So alone by ignoring the scam by the way you do it in other places, there can be a lot of money. I know that this is not always possible anyway. That is why one of the things we want to play a part in is allowing the cashiers to take over a larger part of the operation. We need to get better at looking beyond the municipal job limit, which, of course, does not exist. In other words, the job centres are now municipal and we see that there is a greater job perspective in addition to the region so that it can be streamlined and rationalised. And then we have to leave with some of the zealous controls that are with the unemployed. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131644	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131645	That sounds good. In fact, in some of the well-run job centres, it is both about there being really good management, that you have dedication and involvement with the employees, and that you actually interpret the legislation to the edge. In relation to leaving the assignment to the a-box, I have an example from my own region, I live in Præstø. There is a company that is constantly lacking in labour, unskilled workers, and they simply cannot find them. The director tells me it's not in the a-box or at the job center he finds them; it's on Facebook. So there's a way to get around things locally that could be interesting. Can the rapporteur not confirm that in the job centres where things are going well, there is maximum freedom for the job centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131726	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131727	In fact, we believe very much in the freedom, choice and flexibility of the individual employee. We really do. I shall not be able to deny that there is a company in the area that has had difficulty finding qualified people, but as far as I heard, there was a reference to 3F. 3F's cashier refers to jobs in over 98 percent. of the inquiries they receive. So I don't recognize it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131753	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131755	I would like to thank the SF for being part of a financial law that has become very good. It's pointing forward. Last year we had a Finance Act, which I think was the best for 10 years, and now I actually think we've got one that's a little better. This is a new way of making financial legislation, as the rapporteur has also said. Not as part of the Finance Act, but in connection with it, however, a green tax reform was concluded which SF is part of and which Enhedslisten is not part of. We are not because we think that it is really a shame, not least because there is a very, very serious over-compensation of companies in relation to the few tax increases that exist. But not only that: tax rebates are given in a way, so they also go to the most polluting companies. My question is: how can the SF actually agree to such tax rebates, which also go to the most polluting companies, without there being any guarantee that this money will go to the green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131859	Well, the process is the same as it is in the context of a financial law, as Mr. Rune Lund knows very well. There are different wishes from the parties, and it is obvious that if it had been the SF that had to write a green tax reform, it would have looked different. In the overall calculation, however, we thought that we had such substantial concessions, both on the timetable and on the conversion pools, that, overall, we thought that it was an agreement that we could see ourselves in, regardless of the fact that we point to some of the same sore points as Mr Tugendhat. Rune Lund does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131929	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222131931	That is the second, that is to say, in relation to the timetable. In fact, we tied the government up to deliver in relation to a CO2 It said: "The negotiators therefore oblige the government to prepare a proposal for green tax reform and call for negotiations on this in the autumn of 2020. The Government's presentation must contain both models for basic adjustments to the energy tax tax, which involves a uniform CO2 e-tax, as a starting point for regulating the climate gas emissions of all industries and sectors. Now we've got a jam jar. Why didn't we just hold the government to what we had already tied it up at once?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132009	I see no reason to say in advance that this is a jelly jar. It can be said that, compared with the proposals in the negotiations, we have tightened up the timetables and we have been given more money to the green conversion pools. But that doesn't change the fact that I'd like to admit to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, that it would have looked different if it had been us who had written it. But I guess there are some in Mr. Rune Lund's hinterland, who thinks this finance law should have looked quite different, and maybe it's not good enough anyway. It's always like that. We end up assessing together with the tax reform and with the concessions that we got, that we are involved in it, although there are obviously some sore points in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132043	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132045	Thank you. I would like to ask a little about the minimum standards: is there a guarantee that this means that more educators and more time will come with the children? Or is it a framework where the municipalities can decide for themselves how this money is spent?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132111	We really would have liked to see a much sharper and more precise distribution of the money. The explanation is that you are unable to have data at institutional level until 2023. At that time, we will have to negotiate it again and see if we can be much more precise in how we target the money. As it is now, it's the closest we'll get to it. To that I would say that we have local politicians who are also accountable to their citizens. And there I can see around the country that city councils and municipal councils say that that money must of course go to the children, because in many places you actually want to follow minimum standards, and elsewhere it is because citizens, active citizens, educators and parents demand it. We believe that we have been guaranteed that this money will end up out there as well. But we start by having it at a municipal level because we are simply not able to do so until 2023, when we will then have new negotiations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132211	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132211-2	Well, there is no guarantee that adults will end up having more time with their children. The reason why I am asking is that we can see that there has been a decline in the time that teachers spend with children. It can be said that at present they are about 51 per cent. of their working time with the children, where they used to be 56 per cent. of the time. So if that development continues, it will be eaten up because they are less and less time with children and spend more and more time on administration, bureaucracy and everything else. That is why I am asking whether there is a guarantee that this is not just being eaten up by more paperwork, but actually being channeled over to real time with the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132250	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132251	This is the interesting balance between the fact that, on the one hand, we want to regulate the money in detail so that they simply end up in the rooms, so that there are adults with the children, but where we then lack the institutional data that we first have from 2023 and, on the other hand, this confidence, which we mentioned earlier in relation to employees in the job centres, that the leaders in the institutions are also able to distribute the money in a way that will benefit the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132321	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132325	Thank you so much. I would just like to go back to a question about spouse dependency. In the alternative, we went to the financial bill debate with a hope of yes, it was actually a wish that we could spend 1 billion. kr. to start funding for the elimination of spouse dependency in its various forms. And we did not actually hear that other parties had proposed it in relation to the Finance Act. That is why, of course, I am pleased to hear that it has SF, and I would like to hear in this connection: what was SF's demand for the finance minister in relation to abolishing spouse-dependent benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132405	We believe that we should start somewhere and we think it would be natural to start with the early retirementists. The early retirement pension is a benefit which takes the place of a wage or salary directly. This does not mean that pensioners do not also feel it, but they do have a certain opportunity to prepare themselves for the situation they find themselves in as a national pensioner. Early retirement often does not. It can happen immediately by accident, or it can happen by wearing down over a shorter period of time, and it may often happen in the middle of life. That is why we see early retirement as the place we want to start. And there we can actually do it for a price of 240 million. kr., and that was the suggestion we thought we should start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132444	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132445	Thank you. I am glad that the SF is aware of this point, because we need to get on with it. After all, we must somehow abolish these benefits, preferably a little quickly. Where does the SF think that the next opening comes in relation to getting rid of those benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132505	We see certain possibilities already in the coming year, and we are going to strike every time there appears a crack in any debate where we can get rid of this hopelessly old-fashioned system, which makes one partner in the pocket of the other. We know that there must be negotiations on increased labour supply, which we know is a mantra of some parties here in the Danish Parliament. And the interesting thing about partner dependency is that we can actually free up labour because there are some people today who do not take an extra job, do not take an extra shift because they know that they are simply going to pay off through the partner. And there's an opportunity to get in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132545	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132547	May I not begin by congratulating Mr. Karsten Hønge for a, I think, oratorially well-made speech, which was also well-structured. If my own rapporteur were not sitting here, I would say that this was the best speech that has been made today, but let me just say that it is the best left-wing speech that has been made here today. There haven't been so many of them yet!). It's got to stand for sir. Karsten Hønge's own bill. I would like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge on unemployment. We are currently facing a massive challenge with a lot of people, cooks, suitcases, service workers who have lost their jobs, and the government that Mr. Karsten Hønge's party supports and it has to be said that if anyone supports the government wholeheartedly, it is up to the unemployment rate to be down to the same level as before corona in 2025. So, in four years' time, all suitcase dragons and chefs and mink farmers will be back to work. Is that ambitious enough for SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132651	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132652	SF's ambition is that everyone should be at work on 4 January next year. Well, our ambition is that everyone is at work. Everyone who wants to have a job has to work, and we want to help them in all the possible ways that now exist, with proper, solid basic training within the professional system, with good upper secondary education and with adult, continuing training throughout their lives. After all, there is a huge supply of people out there who want to enter the labour market, and that is where we want them to get started as soon as possible. But it is also clear that we are facing a challenge by having people who are unemployed and who have qualifications that do not fully match the qualifications that are being asked for. That is why we need to take action in the field of education. But if you asked about our ambitions, I'd say that in mid-January next year, people would like to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132739	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132740	Yes, and we could all hope for that, but the Government's own Economic Statement shows that it will not be until 2025... Yes, that is quite right, and now I have the floor, Mr President. Jesper Petersen. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132753	It seems that there are discussions across the Chamber, but there must be respect for those who ask questions and those who answer. Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132803	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge's ambition that this should happen next January is probably not realistic, and so I would like to hear: what initiatives does the SF think should be taken, which has not been taken by this Finance Act, to push further in relation to growth and job creation so that these people can actually get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132824	Lots of jobs are being created with this financial agreement, but it's true what Mr. Morten Dahlin says that it is of course not serious to think that these people are in work in the middle of January, but it was just because I was asked about SF's ambitions. And SF's ambitions are not bound to an economic statement, no matter what it says. Our ambition, then, is for all people who want to have a job to get a job. Jobs are being created through this Finance Act, but it is not enough to make a huge effort, as I mentioned earlier, among other things. In terms of upskilling people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132854	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132856	Thank you. It is always a pleasure to discuss with Mr. Karsten Hønge, and we have had a great deal of pleasure on several occasions. I'd like to get a little bit attached to the colorful expression Mr. Karsten Hønge took part in his fantastic rapporteur speech. If I had it correctly written down, the rapporteur said that you should feed the benefit system. I would like to have the rapporteur unfold something more so that he feeds the benefit system. It was also a bit on the backdrop of an opposite picture of a starved horse etc. So it could be useful and constructive to find out what is involved in feeding the benefit system. Where are you gonna fatten it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222132942	I thought my metaphor about a horse pulling a plow etc. was something that could activate a Leftman. It is simply that today we have an unemployment benefit system which, for the individual wage-earners' family, does not correspond at all to what one can expect when one is in a job. It is wrong, but where it is really wrong is that security in the labour market makes you able to be flexible. So the fact that you have this pillar of security is, in fact, the foundation of the flexibility and dynamics that we have in our labour market. So, by tampering with it and by weakening it so much, you are weakening the family economy, but you are actually undermining the brilliant and sophisticated model we have for our labour market. That is why I think it is possible to find different ways of improving the daily allowance. SF has played out so specifically that we think we should give 25%. more during the first two months, if you have also had a link with the labour market. You can do that in other ways, depending on how many years you've been a member of an A-box or something. We just need to improve the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133050	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133051	I'm just thinking that there are many of us who have such an approach to it that we should like to get Denmark back in gear as soon as possible. Hopefully we'll have vaccines and so on, and then we'll get rid of the corona. And then I understand that SF and Karsten Hønge will feed the benefit system and give more money etc. there to support that system. How, then, does it even work together to get Denmark up in gear, that is to say to get some growth initiatives done and to get some initiatives prioritized in relation to it? It seems like going against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133127	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133128	No, it does not go against each other on the contrary. A secure, stable benefit system is the prerequisite for bringing Denmark into gear. This is what makes hundreds of thousands of people change jobs every year quite naturally, because in Denmark you are not, yet, so afraid to be fired. For this reason, very short notice has been given in Denmark. So our sophisticated Danish model for the labour market, which is so dynamic and flexible, is an advantage for companies. If you do not also have a secure benefit system in that system, the rest will collapse.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133206	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133206-2	Thank you. As rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I had hoped that we would have seen a financial law which contained a little more in the area of the elderly. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur say that minimum standards in the field of children have now been given a great deal of attention and to ensure that there are educators in the day institutions, but how do we really want to ensure minimum standards in the area of the elderly, because there is nothing about that in the draft budget? When we were in the election campaign, SF and DF actually entered into the pact that no matter who would gain power, extra billions would be fought for the elderly beyond the demographic development that is, so why has the SF not ensured minimum standards in the area of the elderly, so that no night watchman should be alone with 40 residents? I would like that in relation to priorities in the area of the elderly. In the Danish People's Party, we have fought a lot to get funds earmarked directly for the elderly, so we also know that it is the elderly to whom they are given priority. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133312	Well, the idea isn't so crazy. I also think that with these clues we are setting out minimum standards in the day institutions, we can help to inspire some models where we can help to guarantee that we have a certain level of bottom-up in an institution elsewhere. So the idea of taking it further is certainly something worth working on, but that is to say, rum was not drunk in one day or whatever it is called, and therefore this may help to inspire it, but as I know the rapporteur himself has already said, it is not enough in itself. I know that in the municipality where you have had the greatest challenges, you have an alderman who comes from the Danish People's Party, so it is not enough to send money or to have an alderman who claims to be interested in it. However, things can go completely wrong out there where the professional meets the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133403	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133404	This is precisely why the Danish People's Party in Aarhus was not included in the budget settlement either, because it seemed that the elderly area was underfunded. So that's a little weird accusations to make. I would then like to hear from the SF's rapporteur whether SF will vote in favour of an old people's law which precisely guarantees minimum standards, national standards, in this area and which ensures that we have the rock card system, which we unfortunately see several municipalities have given away, and thus gives the elderly some rights: the right to self-determination in their own lives and the right to free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133440	I will not reject that at all, but let us now look at how it is drafted. At any rate, we agree that the area of elderly people needs more money and more well-trained people to such an extent. We can see that the Sosu schools are fighting a battle to get enough qualified people out of their education. In some places, whether you are part of the budget settlement or not, you fight politicians and local politicians like the DF Councilman in Aarhus, who were obviously concerned about other things than how the welfare of the individual elderly is. But we will not deny that this could be an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133514	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133517	Like sir. Morten Dahlin, I am also impressed by the rhetorical abilities of the rapporteur, and I was also very pleased that Mr. Karsten Hønge started with the story of Rav-Aage. It is also a matter I know as elected in West Jutland, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Signe Munk and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who have been fighting for many, many years for this to come through. I'm glad we could solve that together. Then I would like to follow up a little on the debate that the rapporteur and I had when I stood on the platform about labour. Now I have just been looking at BUPL's, that is, the teachers' trade union, website, and there are about 1,700 unemployed members of BUPL. A great many of them are the younger members who hardly have the training yet. It can also be seen that there are a number of municipalities where there are virtually no teachers available, and that is why I should like to ask Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, what SF does with thoughts of getting the manpower needed in our welfare community.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133623-2	I actually think that Mr. Andreas Steenberg, through his question, provided my answer: that the challenge is not the job offer, but whether we have qualified people to enter the jobs that then need to be created. For when we are faced with a net unemployment of 126,300, with a gross unemployment of 139,600, with 89,000 working part-time, but who would like several hours, and with this concept of AKU unemployment, we go up in the fact that we actually have 385,000 people in the third quarter of 2020 who want to work. Then the challenge is to move these people, and in the area of which Mr. Andreas Steenberg asks, is that we get better education and that we provide some working conditions for our public employees, so people want to get there. It is, of course, about salaries, but it is very much about being recognised and respected, and that you have the opportunity to actually decide something more about your own job, that you get a confidence reform, so we actually trust the public employees. We do not have that today, and that is why I understand that a number of people are opting out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133729	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133730	But I do not really think that was an answer, because exactly in the area of educating, the same applies to sosus, craftsmen, engineers and all sorts of other things, there is a shortage of work; there is no supply of work. Then it may well be that there are some other people who do not have a job, but they can hardly go in to become doctors or educators or anything else, because they do not have the qualifications required. So what is SF's plan to solve the labour shortage when you do not want to increase working time, for example. for those who are working, or something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133806	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133807	Well, it's actually a possibility that we want to. I certainly think that the public should take a much more accommodating attitude towards the possibility for part-time employees to work full-time. We see it as almost a standard that posters for educators are 32 hours or lower, so it is certainly one of the ways to go. However, the mantra that we have in the Radical Left is no use all the time talking about labour supply, so that we have to send more people to queue up to enter the labour market when we have access to nearly 400,000, so the challenge is not to get more people to move towards the labour market, but to train those we have to enter the jobs where there are openings.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133844	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133845	Thank you. And thanks for an ideological speech. It's always nice when the fronts are pulled up. I just think there's something missing in the story. The rapporteur objected to the fact that the previous government had granted tax relief to those who had too much money in advance. And that's why I think it might just be appropriate to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge tells us which government has last implemented top tax relief. Sir. Karsten Hønge is also unhappy with the level of unemployment benefits. I would also like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge confirm which government has last touched the level of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133927	Well, Social Democrat-led governments have caused a lot of accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133935	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222133936	Yes, it was not just a social democratic government. In fact, it was a government that SF was part of... it was a tax agreement in 2012. And I remember SF's then tax minister and chief SF's speaking warmly about it, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg is asking for tax reform to help increase labour supply. And I am just wondering how the SF's rapporteur can stand today and thunder against all the things when the SF, the only time the party has been in government, carried out exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134012	The 2012 tax agreement was an expression of the power conditions that were in the government and in the Folketing. And no matter that the same agreement among others... $2 billion. kr. extra for the elderly, I won't be standing here defending one sentence more in the tax agreement of 2012 • other than that it paid 2 billion. kr. to the elderly area. Basically, it is absolutely hopelessly wrong to go into cutting transfer income. Period.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134040	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134042	Well then, I will follow up on the same line, not to put the rapporteur to account for what happened in 2012 but about what we can do in the future. After all, I am very pleased that Mr. Karsten Hønge attaches great importance both to the strategic importance of unemployment benefits and to the erosion that has taken place since then. What can we do in the future to stop this erosion?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134108-2	Well, the feed has a name, and it's called money. That's what it takes here. We need to raise the level of unemployment benefit, and I am so completely open to doing so in different ways. I know that Enhedslisten has played in with some models, and we have played in with some others. That's not the most important thing for us. I think that if you have to raise the level of unemployment benefit by giving everyone the same increase, the improvements will be so small that they will not be noticeable. That is why I would like to see a kind of stair model, either in relation to the number of years in which you have been a member of an unemployment fund, in relation to the employment relationship, or in relation to how long you have been unemployed. We have not adopted this; we are very open to models. I just think it might be good to link it to a seniority either in the a-box or in the labour market and then give an improvement that can be felt • for example our proposal for 25%. more during the first 2 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134158	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134200	But is it not precisely an essential part of the strategic importance that the benefit system is the same for everyone? Whether you are paid high or low, the rate is the same. Is it not a very important factor in the strategic importance of the enterprise? The second question I would like to ask in this connection is that the reason why it continues to become less and less coverage is that it continues. The 0.75% with which the daily allowance is eroded every year continues. And then that's what I'm asking, how can we stop that hollow-out just from next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134235	I think Mrs. Jette Gottlieb promised me she wouldn't tear it with the 2012 tax settlement in her nose. Then it happened a little hidden anyway. There is nothing else to say about it but that it was an agreement for which there was a majority, and that is why it was so. That is why we are not going to change the tax agreement. Yeah, SF can step out of it, but we don't, because it won't matter. The 2012 Tax Agreement will continue until it runs out with the effects it now has on the daily allowances. But the same parties are allowed to add money to the benefit system; I know that one can say that it is silly to squander while putting money on top. You can do that, and we can find a model for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134313	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. Then we can move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222134337	Let it be said straight away: the 2021 Finance Act is an agreement that I and Enhedslisten can be very proud of. In contrast to the last ten years of economic policy under both Løkkegovernments and Thorninggovernments, this Finance Act shows that economic crises must be resolved in a new way. Instead of thinking that we can save ourselves out of the crisis, we are investing with this financial law in the future. Instead of giving tax relief, tax reductions and tax rebates to the rich, we are giving this Finance Act to ordinary employees and people with a real need for help. Together with the other parties behind the Finance Act, we invest almost 6 billion. kr. for the benefit of Denmark in 2021. With the Finance Act, we are investing in the major challenges we can see in the area of welfare, with an increasing number of elderly people. With the Finance Act, we are raising education and improving the quality of our children's everyday life in the day institutions. It is investment in the citizens of the future, in their competences and in the care of the elderly who have built up the welfare society for decades on the labour market. The main welfare requirements of the Enhedslisten in the negotiations were a boost to the area of the elderly, and we have achieved that. We allocate funds to 1,000 more employees in home care, while at the same time lifting training responsibilities and ensuring that people can take the sosu training by 110%. of the level of unemployment benefit. We don't tell ourselves or anyone else that we're in the finish line. The 2021 Finance Act is just a step on the way to the reconstruction of dignified care for the elderly, which has been spared for just over a decade. The Finance Act also invests in a greener future for future generations. With the stimuli and recovery agreement, we are investing in the transformation of our society into a greener future. We invest in energy efficiency improvements, green housing improvements, geothermal, charging stations and sustainable construction. We have thus launched the climate action needed to respond to the challenges facing us in the coming years. We use financial resources of over 0.5 billion. kr. over the next 3 years to invest in bike paths across the country. We have also been given 100 million. kr. extra for climate assistance to help those who become and will be most affected by climate change. Finally, with our financial agreement, we are also investing in employees. We invest massively in schemes that can help employees further if they are affected by unemployment: it is the right to education to sosu at 110%. the level of unemployment benefit, but there is also an increase in the regional training pool, there are job-oriented courses, there is a strengthening of assistance in the event of major redundancies, i.e. the early warning effort, there are targeted qualifications and training efforts, and there is also a pool for green further and further training just to mention some examples. These future investments had not been possible under a coal-black VLAK government, which would rather see the rich get richer, while both climate and welfare were allowed to sail, which would rather have large cars, yachts and private aircraft to the rich than more adults in the day institutions and proper conditions on the educations, which would rather have lower taxes on agriculture and industry than lower CO2 Have we now met the high expectations of the government, to the Enhedslisten and to the other parties on the left, because we have made a good Finance Agreement for 2021? Absolutely not. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that the government is far too foot-to-mouth on the climate issue. The so-called green tax reform, which is not at all green, is an example of the government not taking the climate challenges seriously enough. When the government makes tax cuts to the business community together with the bourgeois people on the pretext of redefining the tax for the benefit of the climate, it is coal-black climate policy. There is a need for the government to take the decision in the other hand and to draft a uniform CO2 There is a need for targeted conversions in the most leading sectors, and there is a need to maintain and expand the approach to public investment that we have launched with the 2021 Finance Act, where we are directing investments to where they both improve infrastructure and buildings, while at the same time strengthening the green transition as much as possible. Nor is it right for the government, in its 2025 plan, to lower its ambitions for welfare. Instead of a growth in welfare of 1.1%. A year ahead of 2025, which has been the ambition so far, the government is lowering its ambitions. The welfare will therefore only develop slightly, taking into account the costs resulting from the arrival of more elderly people and children in the years to come. At best, this plan means that the recovery of welfare is going to go too slowly, at worst, that it is not possible to deliver on the reasonable demands of the people for up-to-date welfare. There's enough money in this community. It's about making the right choices. This is what we are doing in connection with the 2021 Finance Act. But it is also about benefits, including sharing the bill for the investment in the community. There is a need to take additional hold with the big companies that have shoveled money into the last 10 years. These companies have received tax reductions, tax reductions, lighter depreciation rules etc., and in the same way tax cuts, which are totally unnecessary and unreasonable, have been given to the richest Danes. And tax incentives have been given to many of the last few years. From 2015 to 2019 alone, under the bourgeois agreed tax reductions, which will cost approx. Twenty-two billion. kr. There is a need to increase taxes on the highest incomes. Unemployed income must be taxed in the same way and with the same tax rate as labour income. Companies must contribute more to the development of society and send less money into shareholders' pockets. It will be good for society because it will increase equality, but it will also ensure that after many years of tax rebates, which have gone to those who have the most and earn the most, we will be better able to afford to restore welfare and secure money for the green transition. So when we celebrate today that a good agreement has been reached on the budget law for 2021, we are also looking forward to a year in which it will be crucial to keep the course. Enhedslisten stands firm that the government must deliver on its promises. Climate action must be taken, welfare must be restored, inequality must be reduced, because we have promised each other that, and we have promised the people that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135144	Thank you. There are brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135148	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the Enhedslisten from the Left for the cooperation that has been going on in several rounds of negotiations. What my curiosity was all about was whether the Enhedslisten agrees with the speech made by the radical rapporteur here a short time ago about the need for reform which, if it were to be said, should make us richer in order to counteract the loss that has come under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135220	In fact, I think it is necessary to clarify what we are talking about here when we talk about labour supply. Because these are not real jobs we are talking about. It is a theoretical supply of work in the Treasury calculator, and the way it is increased is well known. It is weakening the social security net, lowering taxes at the top and increasing inequality. That is why it was crucial for us to get into the understanding paper that such reforms cannot be made. We got this into the understanding paper and it was a very important prerequisite for Enhedslisten's support for the formation of a social democratic government. Then there are some parties that want to raise the supply of work, and to that we have to say that this can only be done within the framework of the understanding paper. That's one. The second is: I have heard the Radicals take a great deal of interest in this; I have not even heard the Radical Left deliver the answer to how 11 000 people are to be found, without increasing the economic divisions in society, reducing the social safety net or lowering the tax to the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135326	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135327	I would now like to defend the Radical Left, because they are not in a position to take the floor now. I think it's pretty violent anyway. I think the Radical Left has an idea of that. But in the event that you are not able to do so, what does it have to do with the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135344	Then I think that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen needs to talk to the Radicals a little more. Where is the table with the figure showing how to reach 11,000 in increased labour supply? Yes, I ask interestedly, because I have wanted to see that list for an incredibly long time and also asked the Radicals to tell me what the content is. The point here is simply: one cannot live up to the understanding paper without showing an incredibly high level of inventiveness or alternatively changing the methods of the Treasury calculator. It is the two possibilities that exist for one to live up to the figure of 11 000 without conflicting with the paper of understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135419	Then it's him everyone's talking about. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135421	In spite of the last exchange of words, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Rune Lund for the cooperation in connection with the agreements we have made. I am also very impressed that Mr. Rune Lund to make a speech without spreading papers around, like Mr. Rune Lund made his mark during the finance negotiations. I will comment on what was said and then ask a single question about foreign policy. From our point of view, the Enhedslisten, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have created a problem by dragging 10,000 people who could work out of the workforce, so we believe that it is the Enhedslisten and the other two parties who must live up to the agreement they have made with us and make a bid for it. And then I move on to the question of foreigners. Does the Enhedslisten agree that we are continuing the fight for quota refugees, the spouses of Danish citizens and training for people with permanent residence, even though we did not manage to get it into this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135523	I have to correct some of that first, sir. Andreas Steenberg, incidentally, said very kindly. It does not need to be a secret, and it has also been said from this platform before that the discussion about the work offer was the biggest conflict we had in connection with the paper of understanding. That is why there is nothing in the understanding paper about increasing the supply of labour, because then we would not have given our support to the formation of a social democratic government. I have heard the government say that they will now try to deliver on it, and then we will have to see how it succeeds. However, we have not promised anything, but we have said very clearly that it will not happen if we increase social divisions, if we reduce the social safety net, or if we lower taxes at the top, because then it is in conflict with the understanding paper. In terms of creating proper conditions for foreigners and creating better integration, we have a huge problem. We have a social democratic government which is opposed to it and which is simply impossible to work with, even when it is quite obvious that we are faced with absurdities. When it comes to quota refugees, which are some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people in this world and which we can come here to help, we will not even commit ourselves to a number of 500. Some money is being set aside, retained, but no guarantees have been given for the number, so that is a major problem. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135635	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135637	The latter could help solve the first challenge, for if, for example, there were 600 Danish citizens who could live here in Denmark with a spouse instead of having to move away, it would be some extra people we had here, and the same applies to foreign labour if it is done on proper conditions. We can see that the policy pursued by foreigners means that there are many companies that say that they will not take a refugee into the workplace, because even if they succeed in getting him into work, they can be thrown out anyway. So to solve this shortage of labour by pursuing a different foreign policy could be one of the things we could agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135716	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135717	We want to help look at sensible solutions. Where we have a problem and where we also have discussions with the Radical Left is, of course, the question of what it will lead to in terms of social dumping and undermining Danish pay and working conditions if we open up foreign labour. There's a clear line. We think it's good that you come from all over the world and work in Denmark, contribute and become part of the Danish community, but it's good that there is the problem from our perspective that many of the proposals that the Radicals make will unfortunately lead to exactly that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135759	Thank you for a funny speech, I would like to say where we had a caricature refreshed by us bourgeois like some who sail in big yachts and drive large cars, whip the unemployed and, by the way, are just interested in large companies making a lot of money. I think that is quite funny, and I am sure that it would have worked very well for a 1st May speech. I'd like to ask about Enhedslisten's relationship with taxes. I can hear you, sir. Rune Lund, that Enhedslisten believes that the tax should go even further; it is no surprise, it is well known Unity List Policy. Then I just want to ask how high? How high should the tax be in Denmark if Enhedslisten had 90 mandates and could decide for himself how things should look?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135844	I can start by saying that I may think, sir. Rasmus Jarlov had to measure the policy that has been pursued from 2015 to 2019 and that was very accurately described in my rapporteur's speech. As far as taxes are concerned, there are, in fact, some people who we want to pay less in taxes, and they are people with small incomes. That's where we'd like to make a tax reduction. But we think that it should be financed, among other things, by the fact that some of the people who have the most people in our society and who earn the most must contribute a more fair share to the community. In relation to the top tax, for example, we think it should be raised and we think it should be harmonised in terms of share and capital income, so that we do not pay a lower tax rate, but the same tax rate as we do when we are a regular wage worker who goes to work. So these are some of the proposals we have to create a fairer tax system that creates redistribution, but also rewards some of the people who have the very least in our society or who have ordinary incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135944	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222135945	Sometimes you just have to let people talk themselves, so they can tell themselves about all the terrible things they want to do, for example. Here, where taxes just have to rise and rise. We have the highest tax burden in the OECD, there are no Western democracies where you take more of people's money than you do in Denmark, and that is what Enhedslisten wants to do even higher. How will the Enhedslisten finance the loss of prosperity that will arise by making us poorer by implementing Enhedslisten's policy? Because that's what we're gonna be. We will simply have a smaller economy if, for example, we tax stocks more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140024	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140025	Nah, there's just come a study that shows that the tax relief to the rich doesn't really end up benefitting anyone else, at least in the end and to the greatest extent, the rich themselves. This is, of course, an example of the need to create a tax policy which ensures that we have the means to invest in welfare. And what makes Denmark one of the world's most competitive and equal societies? It is that we have a strong welfare society. We will build on this and not undermine it, as has happened between 2015 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140059	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140101	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur earlier called last year's Finance Act the best for 10 years and this one perhaps even better. Last year's Finance Act made all income groups poorer, and it also increased inequality. It did. If you follow the Ministry of Finance's calculation, you can see that it increased inequality. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur: at Enhedslisten, is this financial law also increasing inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140133-2	Last year's Finance Act increased inequality, and it is true that, compared to the Finance Act last year, sub-elements of the Finance Act were calculated because it is not possible to measure all parts of a Finance Act in relation to the inequality measured by the Gini coefficient. But if you look at the overall financial law, for example. in terms of increased welfare also increasing consumption opportunities for people who would otherwise not be able to afford it, in terms of having access to better welfare... it can be better home care or better day care institutions... then there is no doubt that the 2020 Finance Act also increased equality, as well as the 2021 Finance Act. This year, again, there is a very, very great increase and strengthening of our welfare societies, which means that there will be a strengthening of equality in our societies by strengthening welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140228	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140229	Okay, so we're out in that Enhedslisten doesn't recognise that we're using the Gini coefficient to see if the actions you're doing in here in the Folketing and in a finance bill increase inequality. I think there's starting to be a pattern. In other words, we do not recognise the way in which the Ministry of Finance calculates when we talk about labour supply, nor do we recognise it now when it is the Gini coefficient. It's as if Enhedslisten thinks that when reality doesn't fit what Enhedslisten wants, it's the maths that we have to change to fit the reality of Enhedslisten. So what are we going to measure it on? Then Enhedslisten can always say that it has been said that there must not be a Finance Act with the Voices of Enhedslisten that increases inequality, but if you define what is inequality and equality yourself, then it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140309	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140310	Well, we recognize that you can use the Gini coefficient to calculate inequality. But you just can't use the Gini coefficient to make calculations on everything that happens in the whole budget law. Last year, when we had the 2020 Finance Act, we rolled, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. an initiative on which the Gini coefficient could not be calculated. If you had been able to do so, it would have shown a very, very large increase in equality of that particular proposal. So the Gini coefficient is an excellent measure, but it just can't measure everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140347	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140349	Thanks to Enhedslisten for the speech. There are many of us who are gradually beginning to see through Enhedslisten's policy, but I am actually trying every year to become just a little smarter about what it would really be for a society we would have if it were Enhedslisten who could decide. One of the things I would like to ask a little is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says about companies being safely taxed higher and that you can take a lot of the money that companies earn and put them in the treasury: Is there a limit to how much Enhedslisten would like to tax, for example? Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140433	Yes, indeed there is. And if you want to see where we think you should take action, you can look at the 100-day plan that we came up with three years ago, which paints a slightly larger picture of what Enhedslisten would do if we had 90 mandates. It is true, however, that in relation to the large number of tax rebates that have been given over the past many years, we think that this is unfair. One tax rebate after another has been given to those who have the most, to those who earn the most, and to companies without there being any guarantee that it will go to the green transition when tax rebates are granted. At the same time, we have seen that there are whips and deteriorations for the unemployed. We have seen deterioration and cuts in welfare year after year It has been the economic policy of the bourgeois for many years. Tax reductions have been prioritised first, and afterwards, with taljonglering, attempts have been made to persuade the people and everyone else that there was indeed enough money for welfare. Now it turns out that the rest of us have a recovery work to do. It costs some money, and those who have the most and earn the most must contribute a fairer share.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140539	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140540	Then there are probably many of us who believe that we will have something of a task if the present government, with its supporting parties, is allowed to have power for too long. Then there will be something of a recovery task for the rest of us to tackle when we hope to regain power. Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur confirm that it is indeed Danish companies that help to ensure that money is also put in the treasury, so you have something to drive welfare for?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140611	Yes, but the Danish companies couldn't exist without a good infrastructure, without a strong education system, without proper care for the elderly and without good day care, where people can safely deliver their children in the morning when they go to work. Then I just have to ask, in relation to recovery, who has prioritised long-term tax reductions and has left a bill for the rest of us in terms of tied tasks in terms of financing the police, in terms of financing the tax administration and in relation to many of the other tied tasks that have to be provided money to in a finance law such as the one for 2021? It's the bourgeoisies. The bourgeoisies have burned the money off on tax cuts at the bar, but have left the bill for the rest of us. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140648	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140650	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. While we're in here and we're also discussing CO2 that makes that money. Too Good To Go makes money reducing food waste. Tesla is making money making electric cars, which I know the rapporteur's party also wants more of. Ørsted makes money setting up offshore wind farms around the world. A simple question: is it okay for Enhedslisten that these companies are making money making green conversion and removing CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140731	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140733	Thank you, it was nice to have it confirmed. I can be a little in doubt about how far your profit hunt really goes, when you are not allowed to earn anything, when you are doing some welfare, and when we also know that you are fighting just as hard for the climate so that you can make money there. I'm glad to hear that, because it matters, and that's where I think we can really move it. Entrepreneurs need capital to get started. All entrepreneurs out there are saying that if it is the case that politicians raise the share income tax, which is already one of the world's highest, further, then it will make it even harder for them to raise capital for their new companies, the companies that are going to help Denmark and the whole world to get to the goal of the CO2 Why does Enhedslisten keep chasing it and believing that it is only about some very, very rich people? Instead, they could create better conditions for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140823	Then we'll get an answer, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140825	There is something absurd about the fact that the share income tax may be as low as 27 per cent, while a regular sosu who goes to work in Ballerup may pay 33 per cent. in taxes or more. There is something fundamentally unfair about this, and one can of course look at the answers to the questions I am asking, among other things. has put forward in the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee who is going to pay more if you raise the tax and harmonise the tax rates so that they get up to what you are taxed on by ordinary wage work. So who's gonna pay? Well, it's the richest and mostly the one percent in particular, i.e. the one percent that's the richest. I think that is fair and fair. In general terms, it also helps to finance the welfare society, which ensures that we have one of the world's most equal but, fortunately, also the most competitive society. And we do because we have a strong welfare society that is funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140917	Thanks to Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments, so we can go further. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222140956	I would like to start by sending a thought to all those people who are currently affected by corona and to the health care professionals who, particularly in this metropolitan area, are struggling to control the epidemic and to treat the many and, unfortunately, increasing numbers of patients. Today is the day when we have to decide again how almost 1 200 billion. kr. in public expenditure shall be allocated. It's not just numbers in a schedule. The Danes have worked billions of hours so that we can distribute those funds. Let us send them a great thank you and remind ourselves how violent it is actually that we are spending all that money. Denmark has the highest tax burden in the OECD. We Danish politicians take a higher share of people's money than politicians do in any other democracy. This is unfair and makes Denmark poorer. Denmark must be a country where we take good care of those who need it and cannot take care of themselves. Denmark must also be a country where it pays to make an effort and where we do not fight wealth in our attempts to combat poverty. Welfare is not about having the greatest possible public spending. It is about Denmark being first and foremost a prosperous country. We must work for fairness, prosperity and social justice, not to maximise public revenue. And on the basis of these principles, this year's Conservative People's Party has made its own financial law proposal, which is, first and foremost, different from the government's and left-wing's draft Finance Bill and, in fact, also from proposals from other parties that have made financial law proposals, by saying that we want to reduce taxes in Denmark. After all, politics is always about the points where we disagree, but let us also mention some points where we are very pleased that the Finance Act gives priority to nature this year. That's something you should be commended for. This is also a point that we have prioritised in our own draft budget, and we are pleased that this has also been included in the financial law of the year. We need a higher pace in meeting climate ambitions, and we will continue to push the government on that point, but we are pleased that Denmark's nature will be given priority this year. We are also pleased that money has been set aside for the culture that we also give very high priority to, and, of course, that the Finance Act is dealing with necessary expenses for Denmark's sovereign biggest challenge right now, which is the plague of the Corona virus. And if the government wants to stick to legitimate and well-founded initiatives, we stand a hundred percent behind the government in the fight against corona. We also need some things. We lack initiatives that generate growth, first and foremost. Together with the government, we have created a stimulus package which is not part of the Finance Act, but which pumps money into the economy, first and foremost holiday money. That is good, and it is fair, and it will probably also create some jobs by 2021; at least we must hope so. But it only helps in the short term. In the long term, reforms are needed to help businesses create growth and jobs, and there is virtually nothing in the Finance Act other than a digitalisation fund. The Conservative People's Party proposes to lower the most restrictive taxes that hold Denmark back from becoming a richer country. The government and support parties propose increasing public spending and withdrawing more Danes from the labour market, while the government has already raised the Western world's already highest tax burden with 31 new taxes. Some of the taxes are not only harmful to Denmark's economy, they are also petty. Why can the government, for example? I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take the necessary steps to ensure that it does not have a working phone without taxing and managing it? It seems to us as a very petty hunt for nobody to get anything without the state getting its share, and then we can all run around and manage that trouble, or we can all run around with two mobile phones with an increased consumption of resources to the detriment of the environment and all sorts of other things. It's nonsense, and we think you shouldn't be chasing the Danes like that. We also lack the will of the government to maintain the strict immigration policy. When we sat in government, we tightened up the gevaldig, and we had a fight with Denmark, when we arrived in 2015, being one of the most popular countries for migrants. Unfortunately, like the last Socialist government with Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the government is moving in the opposite direction. The government is relaxing foreign policy. The government has increased the benefits for immigrants, which makes it more attractive to come to Denmark, and with the Finance Act it is also established that the government intends to retake quota refugees. We propose that we maintain the strict immigration policy and ensure that there will be no more refugees and immigrants to Denmark than we can integrate. At the same time, we are proposing that we only give citizenship to people who can speak good Danish and that we stop giving citizenship to prisoners, as we are still doing today, which in our view is absurd. We cannot be aware of giving away the keys to Denmark by giving citizenship and thus ownership and voting rights to so many people without making very high demands on them. In the area of children, we are sorry that the government, and in particular the SF, has been so blindly staring at one thing: minimum standards. We would like to see a more nuanced approach. For us, it is important that more massive action is taken against vulnerable children at an early age, and that among other things. The talents are being cared for, including in primary school. The recent initiative by the government and the left to ban private institutions is completely incomprehensible to us. It is incredible that one can be so distrustful of the public sector that one does not believe that it can tolerate competition from private institutions. In our view, it is something of a declaration of distrust to the public institutions that they should need this kind of monopoly protection. We cannot understand that at all. We believe that public and private institutions complement each other in the best way possible and that, of course, there must be room for the private institutions, which really, very many Danish children benefit from every day. The government knows that it can always call the Conservative People's Party and get a mandate for the responsible economic policy that the government cannot do with its supporting parties. We would like to encourage the government to make more use of us. We have been pleased with the cooperation on the first small steps towards a green tax reform, the latest police agreement, for example, in which we strengthen Danish police, and for example. the agreement on the North Sea and also many of the corona relief packages that we have made together. Thank you. We are at our disposal to make more reforms with the government. If the government wants a firm foreign policy, a green and offensive environmental and climate policy, an effort for society's weakest and an economic policy, where we make Denmark richer instead of continuing step by step to raise taxes and increase the state deficit, then the government can always count on the Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222141826	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222141832	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov. First of all, I would like to sign for the greeting which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is sending to medical staff this time. I think that's quite, quite right and really, really nice. Then I would also like to sign off on Conservatives reaching out and being the party in the blue block that turns out to be responsible for making broad agreements and also making important agreements when needed and when needed. The other day I was on my way home to Langeland, and then I heard P1. In P1, the rapporteur's chairman was on the radio and he said that a passport which increases by DKK 200 and which we are going to have every ten years, I am happy to pay for a strong police force in Denmark. That is how the President explained that he was part of the new police agreement, which guarantees 20 new local police stations and 450 new police officers and all that. The study should also have been one from the Left, but it had not succeeded in getting anyone from the Left to participate, either the legal rapporteur, the financial rapporteur, the President or anyone else from the Left. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with the arguments put forward by the Left in order not to participate, which is, of course, that we want a tax freeze. Now I see that the President has risen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222141946	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222141947	I have a very personal understanding of the Left's opposition to increasing the price of new passports. I also talked to my party chairman about this because I often change passports. I travel a lot; I have been in 152 different countries, and every time you enter a country, you get a new, big stamp, the less civilized a country it is, the bigger the stamp it is. And then you end up with a full passport, and then you have to change it out. So I'm being personally hit by this 200-kron increase. for a new passport. That is why I understand the opposition of the Left, and I also think it is right to fight against increases. However, this is a question that needs to be addressed to the Left, that is why we have chosen to be outside a police agreement. We thought it was a good deal, and we have chosen to join in. The Left has given weight to some other priorities and is holding very firmly to a tax freeze, and I have great respect for that. We're more flexible. We have therefore put forward a financial bill in which we reduce the tax incredibly much, and also more, than the Left would do, so we are also concerned about this with lower taxes, but do not have such a rich desire for tax freeze as the Left has.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142053	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142054	Thank you. I shall try to limit myself to speaking time in this round. Mrs Inger Løbberg, rapporteur for the Court of Justice of the Left, said that the police agreement was a tax attack, and therefore no tax attack could be carried out! Now, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, whom I know from the Committee on Taxation, is not exactly known as a man who works for higher taxes, and so I would like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that it can be described as a tax attack that you have to pay DKK 200. more to get a passport, even if you travel a little more often than ordinary Danes do. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a reasonable price to pay for the fact that we have a strong police force in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142134	Well, I don't know if sir. Bjørn Brandenborg could not get to before, when the Left had the speaking time, so that questions could be put to the Left. Because I think it is best that the Left interprets the policy of the Left rather than that I do. I mean, we thought it was a good deal, but I respect and I am glad that the Left is also fighting to keep taxes quiet and not taking it lightly to raise taxes. Neither do we. So I understand the arguments put forward by the Left. We have considered that, overall, it was an agreement that was better than not to make an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142204	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142206	Thank you, President, and thank you for an excellent speech. It is always a pleasure to hear the Conservative rapporteur, although there was an area in which the Conservative People's Party has had a very great influence on this financial law, but which I think the rapporteur passed by in complete silence. I am thinking, of course, of the 4.5 billion. kr., which the Conservative People's Party voted for, must be paid further to the EU. After all, when the government had negotiated the draft from the Commission from 5 billion. kr. down to 4.5 billion. kr., we in the Danish People's Party were happy to see Enhedslisten skip out, because one probably thought that the money could be spent somewhere else. But to the great surprise, the Conservative People's Party jumped, and then there were the votes to give it a 90th mandate in that situation, and that is why I think it is to be commended to those who should be praised and that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has to explain what the Danes are getting in connection with the Conservative People's Party having secured this, I think it is the biggest increase in the EU contribution in Danish history. That's 4.5 billion. kr., and I mean, it's about 22 percent. more that we send to the European Union. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov explains what the background for this is?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142313	Thank you so much for the great praise. I am very pleased about that. In my view, it is not now part of the budget law that there is an increase in the EU contribution. This is something that has been agreed in the EU, funny enough, and not in the Danish Finance Act. This has been negotiated in the European Committee, where we have also asked the government to negotiate as hard as it could, to ensure that the Danish EU contribution did not get too high and, moreover, to ensure that the budget in the European Union was kept down. That is also what our MEP, Pernille Weiss, is working for, namely that EU expenditure does not increase. So we're basically against this increase, but Denmark has come to eat. Overall, we still believe that it is an advantage for Denmark, also an economic advantage for Denmark. That is why we are sorry to have to pay more, but we are still in favour, as opposed to Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Morten Messerschmidt and his party that we are a member of EU cooperation, and there is then a bill to be paid, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142414	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142415	It's gonna be a little confusing. So it is very rare to get 4.5 billion as a party. kr. negotiated on a Finance Act. So it has been very well done, and that is why I just think that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is far too modest, for if so, sir. Rasmus Jarlov's party had said 'no', the Danish Government could have said 'no', and then that agreement would not have happened, because it required agreement among the countries. So we're just gonna have to figure out here that it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party, which can take credit for the fact that 4.5 billion are now being sent. kr. more to Brussels. That's the way it is, and that's why we just want to hear a maybe a little less step-motherly explanation of why it was done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142452	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142453	I mean, again, it has nothing to do with the Finance Act. It is about the negotiations in the EU on the EU budget, and Denmark's contribution is not something that has been agreed in the Finance Act. So this is a rather funny attempt to make it a conservative victory in a financial law, which we are also not part of, so for that reason too the issue does not make much sense. However, we are sorry that Denmark's contribution to the European Union should increase. We are sorry that the EU budget should increase at all, but the government has obviously not been able to negotiate it any further down, even though we have been pushing for it to do so, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142529	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142531	Actually, I wasn't aware of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov was in the Chamber when I gave the rapporteur's speech, but there I thanked Conservatives for the cooperation and the agreements we have made together. And now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov looked at more cooperation with the government, and we are not a part of that, but I can then send an invitation to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to cooperate with us, because we would really like to do so, for example. in the area of climate, where we have common visions and agendas. And there I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whether the Conservative People's Party is ready to adopt a uniform CO2 next year is the Conservative People's Party ready for next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142619	Yeah, we're ready for that. We are also disappointed that the government did not move forward with a more uniform CO2 because we think that it would have been possible to achieve more in the six months that the government has had to do than simply raise energy taxes, which is too unmanageable, if you want it to actually have an effect in the way that companies consume their energy and exploit CO2 So we agree with the Radical Left and have the same agenda here that we want more uniform CO2 2 It is good, healthy economic policy that externalities are taxed as this is, because it goes beyond the rest of society when you emit CO2 So we have no objection to taxing that as long as we lower some other taxes at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142723	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142724	I just want to thank you for your answer. I have no further answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142730	And that does not add any further comments from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142735	I think I may have been infected by the softness of Christmas time, and I'd have to rely on normal naivety. I really thought that if not at all, so that this year at least could avoid hearing about the desire for tax relief. I mean, how will Mr. Rasmus Jarlov explains how the Danish business community had just got through this crisis without having had this tax-financed welfare society? That is precisely why, after all, we came through this crisis, with wounds and bruises, but so much easier and better than so many others, and precisely this year, when all companies that have been able to get anywhere near compensation have taken advantage of the opportunity. But even this year, the year in which business has, if ever, drawn on the account of taxpayers, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov still wants the treasure to be reduced. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142828	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142828-2	I am sorry that the Left is so often trying to interpret these so-called aid packages for restricted companies as if it were the welfare state that is coming and helping the business community. It is a question of some companies being compensated because of some political intervention which prevents them from exercising their profession. Moreover, it is a question of some companies who have put huge amounts of money into the Treasury for many years and who then get a little bit back from it, but who have still been major suppliers to the welfare state. So it is the private sector that keeps up the welfare state and pays for the welfare state, and certainly not the other way around. And we believe that we must continue to try to fight to create good conditions for our businesses, because this is the foundation of our state and of all the costs incurred by the state and because, moreover, we pay tribute to the private initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142933	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222142934	Well, it's not the politicians' fault; it's only in the second term. The reason is that coronating, which I am sure Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has heard of. It is not because the Folketing has now decided to bother some companies and make some restrictions for them, and therefore they must have compensation and help and compensation in every context and out to the extremes. Well, that's because of that coronating thing. It is not the Folketing that is responsible; it is the Corona that is responsible. What we do, on the other hand, is that we go in and help these companies, and there they are queued up for help. So how would you manage as a company if you could not afford to stand on the shoulders of taxpayers, what they are doing and what they have good reason for, because we want to keep our hands on these companies and in the workplace? We cannot just say at the same time that we want the tax to be reduced, but here we are leaning on the welfare society. And then, not all companies lose money. There are other companies that have huge profits, including this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143025	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143026	In other words, when you ask some companies to close down to solve a task for society, which is to keep an epidemic down, it is also fair that the community and society pay the companies at least a very large part of the loss they suffer from it. I mean, everything else is deeply unreasonable. After all, we are not asking other people in society to solve common tasks for society without paying them for it, and of course this must also be the case for companies. And it is as a starting point that you are allowed to run your business, and it is in the Constitution that you must be compensated if you are expropriated, as some companies become. That is why they must, of course, have those compensations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143106	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143109	Thank you. It is because I have looked a little at the Conservative People's Party's Financial Bill, and when I read it and look down on the proposals, I am full of indignation, but in fact also astonished. On the website is a picture of a friendly sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, but when you look at the content, it is quite awful to read what the Conservative People's Party is proposing. What I am thinking in particular is what the Workers' Council has also calculated, namely that when you look at what the tax changes in the Conservative proposal will mean, it shows that it will mean that the richest percentage will be taken into account by DKK 28 600. a year, while the poorest 10%. will lose DKr 460. Well, at least there are some people who are really poor who will become poorer. And my question is really: why? So what is it that drives the Conservative People's Party to propose something that is as absurdly socially wrong as what is in the draft budget of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143221-2	Well, I'm glad that Enhedslisten can't just see himself in our financial act. I would be very sorry if that were the case. It is the case that when you lower taxes, it primarily benefits those people who pay a lot in taxes • it is quite difficult to avoid. So this every time we draw the inequality card as such a kind of veto to reduce the tax burden in Denmark we are simply not in favour of. In other words, we have been opposed to most of the tax increases made by the left and the Socialists over the years, which is why, of course, we also want to roll them back. Then it is true that there would be a little more income inequality in society if we got our economic policy through, but in return it would undoubtedly also be a more prosperous society. And we just feel that we want Denmark to be a prosperous society, because we think it is also the foundation for us to be able to pay to those people who really are having a hard time in Denmark. So we are in favour of a more prosperous and yes, perhaps a tiny bit more unequal society than we have today, rather than the equality of Enhedslisten and the fight against people who earn money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143339	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143340	If you believe that increasing inequality in the way proposed by the Conservatives gives more prosperity, then it is only if you believe in the very thinly-substantiated assumptions of the Treasury calculator that if you whip the unemployed enough and reduce the social security net and lower the tax for those who earn the most, then you get prosperity. That's not really what reality looks like. However, if I may ask a little about the reality, it must be about the fact that the many tax reductions agreed between 2015 and 2019 have, of course, struck a proper hole in the box • 22 billion. kr. They cost every year. Now, for example. tied bills of 1.3 billion. kr. to the IRS that the rest of us have to pick up. Is it particularly financially responsible to leave a bill like that to the rest of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143424	What leaves a hole in the treasury is that Mr. Rune Lund and the government spend too much money. It is not that tax is being levied too little. We have the world's highest tax burden among the countries where it is measured reliably in the OECD, so it is not exactly because we are charging too little. We Danish politicians take more of people's money than in any other Western democracy, and then Mr. Rune Lund, that we've punched a hole in the box because we're not charging enough tax. That's absurd. You can choose to listen to Mr. Rune Lund's home-knit economic theories, or you can listen to the OECD, the Ministry of Finance, the wise men, and everyone else who has such an understanding of economics. It will then be possible to hear that the measures we have proposed in our financial legislation make Denmark richer, raise our gross domestic product, make us a more prosperous society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143510	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143514	Thank you. The words that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov said that Denmark has the highest tax burden in the world and that it is regrettable and that one should go another way, I might as well have said, and that is why it is equally important to ask why it is necessary to find more money with the citizens when you want more police officers. I am aware that if the Conservative People's Party had 90 seats, it would probably be more efficient in some places and so on, but I still need to know which of the funding elements are in the police reform that has unfortunately been accepted and which of them are conservative policies. Higher prices for driving licences and theoretical tests are one. The second is higher prices for obtaining a permit for weapons. The third is higher prices for having to renew your passport. The fourth thing we have not talked about is that we are once again increasing the number of photocars. We agreed in the last parliamentary term that the cameras had to get out of the photocars; there had to be fewer of them, and instead we had to have more starling boxes. Now you go the other way. Is it a new policy from the Conservative People's Party, or is it a regrettable concession that we had to make to get more police officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143626	After all, there are none of the increased taxes, sources of income, which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions here, which is a good idea, and that is also true, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen himself said that we would not have done it that way if we had been able to decide alone or together with the Liberal Alliance. Then we would have found the money in other ways than by raising taxes. Sometimes it's the price you have to pay to make a big deal. Then you get something, and then there is something else that is bad, and here there are some bad tax increases. But it is not disastrous that the exact price of a passport, for example. increase by 200 kroner. I live with it. Although I often change my passport because I travel a lot, I think it's affordable. So it is all right, I would say, and we have had a strengthening of the Danish police, and then we are working to significantly lower taxes in some other areas and hope to gain support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143726	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143726-2	I agree that this is a small amount of money, which is why I'm also talking about this stuff with starling boxes and photocars. Actually, I think that's really bad. If you have any of the places that are plagued by madness in the evening and night hours, then there won't be a photo car there. They're usually there during the day. There is a need for a starling box, but a starling box cannot be placed there in the future because there must be places where the photocars are to be held during the day. You're not gonna put a photo cart in a place where there's a starling box. These two things work against each other. Buying all those photocars works against road safety, which the starlings can give. This means that more people are being killed in traffic because we cannot place stark boxes where crazy driving takes place in the evening and night hours. I think that is actually disastrous, and it is really a pity that this needs to be done: in order to have more police officers, we need to have less road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143821	In isolation, I am quite in agreement, and I can also hear that it is a former bourgeois minister of transport who knows something about the subject that speaks. We also think it is a good idea to have stark boxes, because it is quite evident that people are slowing down where the stark box is standing, and that this has a very clear effect, that it is possible to take a very targeted approach to those sections where there are the biggest problems. So I quite agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143849	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222143852	Thank you. At first, it could actually be fun to know what was in the concept of a tiny bit more inequality, i.e. the definition of a tiny bit • how little or how much is it? However, the rapporteur also directly asked the Enhedslisten how high the tax should be. I could ask the other way round and say: How low do you Conservatives actually think the tax can be? After all, the Conservatives have proposed spending 1.2 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It can be said that it is especially within this group that a relatively large proportion pays top tax. On the other hand, employment for skilled and unskilled workers is still lower than in January. Is it a good targeted priority to spend 1.2 billion? kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Is it not a little wiser to be a little more focused on helping the unemployed, unskilled and skilled, to get them back to work, that is to say, is it the right method? Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144002	We presented a 2030 plan a few years ago, I think it is in which we presented our visions for the Danish economy as a whole, among others. that no one has to pay more than half their income in tax, i.e. max. 50% Baby. So that's our goal for it. After all, we have not made a proposal for a tax reduction for people with long-term education. It is true that we are proposing to move the limit on when to pay top tax. I think that's what's being charged with here. And, of course, there is a predominance of those who pay top tax who have a longer education. I guess that's right, too. We know that raising the limit on when to pay top tax will be one of the initiatives that can have the greatest impact on employment and Denmark's gross domestic product. That is why we have proposed it. In addition to the fact that, for ideological reasons too, we think that top tax is totally unfair, it is also good for Denmark's economy if we implement that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144107	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144108	It's like that in addition to that. In other words, in addition to wanting to reduce the tax for those who are already perhaps well off around this, and those who are not most affected by unemployment, it is also proposed to save on cash benefits, on cash benefits, on unemployment benefits, on reducing the higher rate of unemployment for unemployed people taking training, abolishing the Arne pension and stopping access to the early retirement pension. One might say that this combination of top tax relief and deterioration for the unemployed and the worn out is the same as the Conservatives did after the financial crisis. At that time, we did not break the unemployment curve. What makes the Conservatives believe that this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144147-2	Well, at least we did. We have had very low unemployment in the years following the financial crisis when the Danish economy got back on track. So we have succeeded in making some reforms which have meant that many, many more are at work today than they would otherwise have been. And it is a great pity that the Social Democrats and the government have left this course and that we now have the first government in the memory of man, for 40 years or something like that that has stopped trying to make reforms that ensure that people work more and that we get a higher gross domestic product and become a richer country. Instead, you have gone back to the Anker Jørgensen model, where you just use it loosely and will introduce a lot of new transfer income that makes Denmark poorer. We have agreed to such a populist galley that it is terrible that retirement age increases along with life expectancy. I think that this is an unfortunate economic policy on which the left and the government have embarked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144240	The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144244	Thank you. I would like to start with the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party to sign off on the fact that the poster from the 1980s really does live up to what it said, namely that Conservatives are civil voices working. It is, of course, particularly with regard to the police conciliation that has been concluded here recently, when there is, after all, another large bourgeois party that is conspicuous by its absence and by not taking responsibility. Then the hat off for it. Then I have looked at the Conservative People's Party's proposal for the Finance Act, and there is a section called "The Need to Invest in Welfare," which sounds really good, but it should not just sound good; it should also be good. Because when you read a little more into the text, you can see that among other things. The Conservative People's Party does not want expenditure to follow the demographic trend when we grow older and more children. In addition, the Conservative People's Party proposes that in a number of areas, annual 1 percentage savings should be made. This is something that will lead to savings in many places in the public sector, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it can be regarded as an investment in welfare when you go in and do these austerity exercises and whether the rapporteur can guarantee that there will be no citizens in Denmark who will experience reduced services as a result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144405	Thank you very much. I'm glad our financial bill is being read. We are very pleased about that. We have put a lot of energy into making it, so it is always nice that there is also a reader class for it. So thank you for that. Well, basically, welfare is not something you invest in. It's something you spend money on. It can be a good use of money. It may help to raise happiness in society, to ensure that people are well and to help them with home help and all sorts of other welfare benefits. So it is not because we are against it, but I think that the term investing in welfare is such a little to make it sound as if the money is coming back, and they do not. There should be no doubt that we will spend less money on what the Socialists call welfare than the Socialists themselves want. Well, it's not a secret at all. It is a quite frank disagreement between our two parties: we are in favour of the Danes paying a little less in taxes and getting a little less from the public, and the Socialists are in favour of paying more in taxes and getting more from the public. It's just an honest disagreement between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144514	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144515	That is probably more than honest disagreement, for we should also remember to call things by their proper name. So, the Conservative People's Party says there should be this one percentage saving, but that should not happen, and now I am trying to list here, health, defence, police, social protection, education, culture and environmental protection. But instead of saying in what areas should not be the one percentage saving, can the rapporteur not say in which areas savings should be made? Are these day care institutions, primary schools or old people's care? Where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144547	Whether it should be day care or care for the elderly or kindergarten or elsewhere is actually up to the municipalities to decide. After all, we are not in favour of our being so determined to go in and say: Now you have to save 10,000 kr. at this institution and 5,000 kroner. Somewhere else. So you find out within the municipalities, that is, where to save. But the municipalities would probably have less money if we got our way than they have with the Social Democrats, at least in the short term. In the long term, we will become a more prosperous society with our policy, and in the long term, there will also be more money for what the Socialists call welfare. However, we will not pretend that in a budget law for 2021 we would give as much money to what the Socialists call welfare as the Socialists themselves want. In return, we will let people keep a little more of the money they earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144633	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is very much in favour of getting rid of it; it will be appreciated. It looks nice. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov for the whole package. Welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144719	Thank you. The Enhedslisten called last year's Finance Act the best Finance Act for 10 years, and they have said that this one is even better. Perhaps those are the only words you need to hear, so that as a citizen you run screaming away from this financial law, and of course every bourgeois party should vote against this financial law. We do the same in New Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first comment is from Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144808	Thank you, and also thank you for the speech, which was short, but precise. We must give this to the new citizens: that is how we know them and the rapporteur. They are precise in their policy and their communication. We know the rapporteur as an idealologist, including in practical policy. We recently had an interesting case here, which I would like to ask the rapporteur, namely the agreement on a stronger police force for the sake of greater security for the Danes. It's a deal, which, among other things, is... is financed by some inflation regulation on the issuing of passports and the price regulation of taxes on arms. There we had to understand that the Left could not be included in the agreement because it contains tax increases. After all, it is not because New Citizens are actually known to be in favour of imposing taxes on the Danes, but perhaps the rapporteur cannot help clearing it for the rest of us, how New Citizens can be part of an agreement that raises taxes on weapons and regulates the tax on the issue of passports when a party like the Left could not be involved. It has been a little difficult for the rest of us to find a head and tail in what logic is in the blue block.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222144922	The policy of the left is to ask the Left. I think so. I know that the Conservative rapporteur was also asked why the Left did not want to join, but leave it alone. They have to answer for that. I would like to answer for new citizens and our policy. There's what you could say: 4%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on this matter. on the issue of passports or some other fees which have not been regulated since the 1990s. We must then ask ourselves whether we should not have user charges for anything and whether it should not follow some form of inflation regulation. We can actually see ourselves in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145001	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145001-2	But I share that logic. That, of course, is also why we in the Socialist Group believe that this is a very good agreement. But when it becomes interesting to ask New Citizens about the policies of the Left, it is because New Citizens, as I understand it, point to the Left as a future governing party and because they will support a Left Government. In this sense, an interesting question is this: what if the Left wants to roll back parts of the police settlement, which should strengthen the proximity and security of the citizens, because it is financed by charges on weapons? So where does it leave the New Citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145034-2	The questioner makes three mistakes: 1) New Citizens haven't pointed out a prime minister candidate yet. We have three mandatory requirements for a prime minister candidate. 2) If it were New Citizens who had made this deal alone, there wouldn't have been this tax increase in it, and then we would probably have found a financing for it. There's plenty of money we can find in the Finance Act. 3) If we then have to find funding, if we are to reach a new agreement on this, or if we want to improve the current police settlement, we can easily find the last funding elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145103	The next brief remark is to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145107	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, but I was aware of it under 100 words, so there is not much to thank for. So, instead of being allowed to thank, I hope, for the answers to the questions put to the rapporteur. We hear a lot about New Citizens' policies on immigration and refugees, etc., but when it comes to economic policy, which we saw among other things. It is a little strange that the rapporteur does not really choose to tell us anything about the financial policy of the new citizens. I am thinking of the fact that, if you read back a little in the history, you can see that, among other things. states that the abolition of corporation tax, the removal of top tax, and the removal of vehicle registration charges. All in all, it costs over 100 billion. kr. I am well aware that there is something called dynamic effects and so on, but will the rapporteur not try to involve the parties of the Folketing a little more in economic policy in New Citizens, because I think it is somewhat in the background of everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145214-2	I am happy to speak of the economic policy of the new bourgeoisie. There's nothing I'd rather do. It is true that we want to reduce a large number of taxes. Now the questioner is asking precisely about some funding for it. Let me just mention a few points, some of the great chunks; I do not have that much time. The jobs centers don't think we give value. Now you've just found 1 billion. kr., which DF contributed to adding votes. That is also some of the funding we want to use. There's a lot more billions we could get there. Then we have some foreign aid that we spend 17 billion. kr. On which we don't think we should spend the money. Then there is some EU aid where we pay 20 billion. kr. Then we spend 4 billion. kr. on the Danish Radio. I mean, we have business support, where we from the Ministry of Finance pay 10 billion. kr. a year, which we also believe should be spent on tax relief instead. There are a large number of places where we think funding for these things can be found, and therefore we are funding it, of course, crown by crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145303	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145304	Well, that's where we might not agree entirely, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Because if you add up the things that the rapporteur, like roughly outlined, such as our employment efforts, then it is the case that something will come over to the municipalities if you close down the job centres and so on. You can't just make expenses invisible. There will still be a municipal expense in relation to part of the job guidance etc. But even with the amounts outlined by the rapporteur, we will never be able to reach the 100 billion. kr. You don't even get halfway there. So perhaps I think the rapporteur should try to go a little deeper and give us a few extra examples of where it is thought that more than 100 billion can be found. kr. without destroying the citizens' well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145354	Then I think the rapporteur will have to do a little better, because we are going a long way up there. Then we have a failed non-Western immigration, which costs 33 billion. kr. a year too. So we're gonna get up there fast. Besides, we're saying that this natural demographic projection that you're doing isn't the right way to do it. We think things can be done much more effectively out there. That's what we've been looking at. If we look at improving efficiency in the municipalities, we can see that there are a large number of places where they can do it. External consultants are somewhere else where we can look. I know that the government intended that the figure should be lower there, but as far as I know, it was in fact in the last statement that it went the other way. There you can also pick up a lot of billions. So the money's out there. All it takes is political will. In return, we have it in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145436	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145440	Thank you so much. I'm going to start my question by signing New Citizens that they were part of a broad multi-year agreement for the police. It means a lot to others. Vestjylland, that there will be more officers on the street so that there can be order. With regard to the pragmatism shown by the new citizens in the context of the police negotiations, we must also look at pragmatism in relation to the more unemployed who have emerged from this corona crisis. The figures show that there are 25,000-30,000 more unemployed than last year. I can see that two other parties on the bourgeois side, namely the Left and the Conservatives, would very much like to lower the threshold for foreign labour from outside the European Union, and I would just like to ask about pragmatism in New Citizens: do New Citizens, in line with the Left and the Conservatives, believe that the time is ripe to lower the limit when we currently have more unemployed than last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145536	And then you have to remember the 5,000-6,000 minks who have also become unemployed because of the government's illegal orders. You can just add them to the number of unemployed who are currently. It is true that in terms of how we can increase labour supply, New Citizens would very much, very much like to look at tax cuts, tax reductions and everything else. The previous government had a level of pay, and we actually think that is sensible. We have not decided that a new cut should be made in relation to what the previous government had. We supported the previous government in that and we have not decided that it should be at a new level.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145613	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145613-2	I can sense that there is a door on the door when New Citizens actually have a focus on having Danes in employment and that the time is not yet ripe, as the Left and Conservatives suggest, to lower the limit on the amount, so that foreign workers from outside the EU can more easily enter the Danish labour market. How is the clear answer from New Citizens to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145637-2	You hardly find a policy in the Danish Parliament that is better at getting people into work than New Citizens. It should be borne in mind that it is the government that has made a financial law that makes Denmark 12 billion. kr. The last Finance Act made everyone poorer. We will lower taxes and charges • lower the corporation tax, lower the top tax, remove the registration fee on cars • because that's where you get the big bang for the buck. Remove the labour market contribution, give more money, create more growth in society, and you will also get jobs. All it takes is for politicians not to spend quite as much of their citizens' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145710	Sorry the President got up too early, there were actually 3 seconds left, so don't panic. The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145719	I listened with great interest to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's answer to Mr. His Kristian Skibby compared to all the money we could find. This is something I have been thinking about for many years. There was something about development aid that had to go away, and there was something about an EU contribution. There was also something about Denmark's Radio, which makes my old heart beat hard when I hear it. What amazes me a little is that, when we were sitting here doing the police negotiations until very recently, when New Citizens joined, I did not hear about any of those funding measures. On the other hand, as has been pointed out a few times, we have had to raise a few taxes and things like that, and New Citizens have been involved here. Well, how can it be that New Citizens when we made this police settlement, for example. So did not propose that we just cut half of the EU contribution or half of development aid? It was certainly not us in the Danish People's Party who should have opposed us, and then we could have spent 10-20 billion. kr. More on the police. Then why did New Citizens actually agree to raise some taxes and completely drop the dream of removing all these unnecessary knob shots? There was also something about some job centers and stuff like that. Why did we not hear anything about this in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145829	I have to say that it was our legal rapporteur who negotiated it, so I cannot comment on what has actually happened inside the negotiating room. I haven't been there. But if the Danish People's Party wants to make a motion for a resolution with New Citizens to cut some places and then spend the money on increased police, then we are sure to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145847	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145848	Yeah, but I'm sure that's clear now, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that the fact that the opposition is tabling resolutions does not always end up being translated into reality. I would say that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, although he does a lot to say that he is not a politician, communicates with the other three with whom he sits in the parliamentary group, so that we know fairly well what is going on between the finance rapporteurs and the legal rapporteurs. In other words, we are able to do so among 16 Members, so I guess we are among four members of the New Citizens' Party. So why is it that the legal rapporteur in the New Citizens' Party is not aware of the funding proposals put forward by the Financial Rapporteur in the New Citizens' Party? It is strange that there is one person who is the legal rapporteur and says yes to raising taxes for some good purposes; we are in agreement with that, but then there is a financial rapporteur who says that everything has to be financed, by dropping development aid, shutting down the job centres and shutting down Denmark's Radio, and by having zero growth, or was it minus growth, in the public sector. Well, it's like it's two different parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145937-2	Oh, I won't go as far as to say that. In other words, in relation to the fact that there are inflationary charges and, at the same time, a party that wants to remove the labour market contribution and remove registration taxes on cars and so on, I can now see that there is a difference between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222145955	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150002	Thank you. Now there are others who have asked a little about the economic policy of the new citizens, and I also think it is interesting, among other things. That, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen said about public growth. 'Cause that's what Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen, that it should be minus 0.5, I understand. This will mean real savings in the area of the elderly and health, which are, of course, the major items in public budgets. So I would like to ask: where is it that New Citizens want to save compared to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150039	But now the Danish People's Party falls into the socialist pot and believes that savings can only be made on the basic core welfare, and we simply do not share that view. There are, for example: external consultants. If you need to find the 0.7%. in demographic traits plus the 0.5%, then it's 1.2%. of public consumption of around 560 billion. kr. That is to say, it is 6 billion. kr., you must find the first year. Oh, my God, you can remove the support for Denmark's Radio, and then you've found the 4 billion. kr., you need 2 billion. kr., and you can find them on external consultants. Then you've found the first 6 billion. kr. for the first year, and that's how you can continue down the road. Well, finding it is no problem. We pay the world's highest taxes, we have one of the world's largest public sectors. Is there any idea that you can't save it? Is it really DF's vision to say that you can't find anywhere where you can streamline, that you can't find anywhere where you can save, so citizens still have to pay the world's highest tax? Of course you can, it just takes a political will, and we have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150133	Before I give Mr. Simpson... Mr Skaarup. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Skaarup on his excellent report. Sir. Peter Skaarup to another remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150146	Thank you. I just don't quite understand that math, like Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen is coming with us. For the calculation should sound as I understand it, so that it is about finding 50 billion. kr. In other words, it is said that expenditure on foreigners, plus a few other areas, will be spared, as I have heard it said here from the platform. I think you just have to tell me more precisely where it is that we can find that money. 'Cause that sounds like a promise to me, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen tells us, and many of the things that are being said sound right, but I just think we lack answers to that, and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen might then tell us: Where exactly is that 100 billion? kr. You're supposed to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150236	Well, now I have repeatedly explained the big pieces, and I can also give you a new example where you could. If Aarhus Municipality used the same level of central administration and management as e.g. Aalborg Municipality, they freed about 220 million. kr. a year in their budget. If we look at the recent period in which DF was the support party for a government, the cost of the municipalities increased by, I believe, 2.3-2.5 billion. kr., and out of the more money that was given to the municipalities, 435 million was. kr. used directly for increased central administration and management. These are the decisions we want to make, and these are the decisions we think are the wrong ones. So, of course, you can easily go into detail and find far more money in that area. The cultural area is another area where we can easily make savings. So I can sit and account for that, but then I can't reach that in one minute, right down to the account level, how every municipality should make these savings. But you can go in to look at the efficiency and see what is of community potential in the various things. I also think that the Danish People's Party can see that there is potential there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150330	It wasn't even a whole minute, it was actually only 1⁄2 minutes. Well, then it's a good thing you can speed up. The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150340	Thank you. I hadn't even prepared to ask you a question here, but I just can't help it. I mean, 100,000 million. kr. It's just as easy, hello. This is how it is. We've made it 100,000 million. kr. That's what we're talking about. That's the number we're talking about. New Citizens can just find it with a fingertips. Come on, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, the reality is not that easy, and it is only on some of the few things that you have said. It is corporate tax and to remove it, it is top tax and to remove it, it is registration tax and to remove it, and that is the top tax on equity income. So that's only four things, and that's 100,000 million. kr., and you can find them at the job centers. I just want to say that the entire job centre economy is 12 billion. kr. It's a long way up to the rest. I recognise that one can have a policy of reducing taxes, but one stands on the speaking chair of the Folketing and tells the voters that this is a walk in the park and that it is easy to find so many billions and millions. So, some people think it's hocuspocus, and that's what the rapporteur doesn't hear for himself just a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150450	No, I simply do not think the questioner has listened to what it was, I said repeatedly, where I explained it, and then one point is chosen and it is the whole funding. Then we have simply not listened to what I have been saying to the others. There are, of course, a large number of points which can be financed, but then there is the whole idea that you cannot peel 10%. of a country that pays the world's highest tax and has one of the world's largest public sectors. Imagine if you told people in the private sector that it was not possible to adjust by 0.5%. a year, without it all breaking together, if it was a performance in here from the Folketing that you would say to the private and to the citizens out there: No, it is impossible to streamline with 0.5%. A year, it simply cannot be done. The company owners are laughing at us in here, because they can see that, of course, you can. They live by increasing efficiency, adjusting by 3, 4, 5 or 6%. a year, that's the terms. Of course, over a number of years in here from the Danish Parliament, we can streamline with 0.5%. There are so many layers of fat in the public sector, so you can of course finance it without compromising the basic core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150558	Sir. René Christensen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150600	So 100,000 million. kr. is a walk in the park, it is just a question of making the proposals. Then something puzzles me. We are about to vote on the amendments to the draft budget, that is actually where economic policy is being pursued and there is not one amendment from the new citizens. Why in the world don't you let the rest of us get into the engine room and find out how New Citizens will find this 100,000 million? kr.? Because if it's that easy, it's because the rest of us haven't been able to see it, and if they're that easy to find, we want to be a part of it. 100,000 million. kr. is a great deal of money that could be spent on anything else good, including tax relief. But why does New Citizens not make the proposal when it is the policy of New Citizens? After all, we have tabled up to 40 amendments, including with other parties, and these are the ones we will be voting on shortly, and that is because we want to implement our policy. Will new citizens not implement their economic policies?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150651	I'd like that very much. I don't think there's anything we'd rather do. Yes, it should just be making sure that we do not have the same Islamic immigration as we do. But when we have not tabled amendments here, it is simply the practical and natural reason that we have four mandates and that we have not been able to table economic amendments with our whole economic policy for this financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150711	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150717	I also feel strongly provoked to take the floor. I wasn't really planning on doing that either. But if we cannot now make amendments to the Finance Act which show how we are going to implement our economic policy, can we not have a promise here at the third reading of the Finance Act that we will then come forward with it, let us say in January or something, so that we have had time to make it over the New Year? Because it's interesting to know not only for us as a party that has to find out how we can work together, but also for the Danish population how to cut over 100 billion. kr. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive. I think there are a lot of people who find this interesting. Well, we would like to spend more money on the elderly, we would like to spend more money on our hospitals, and we have just made a police settlement where we would also like to spend more money on our police, because we think it should be expanded. It should be more close, and it should be more safe to be a Dane. New Citizens say that we can just do all that while cutting over 100 billion. kr. away from the public sector. We're really interested in finding out how on earth you do it. Then Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen does not just give a hand at the third reading today that there is such an overview, such a plan, from New Citizens, so that we others can see how it is and that, when we have not had time to do so here in the third reading of the Finance Act, we come up with it, let us say, for example. In January?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150822	I know it can be amazing that it was actually just an honest answer that came from the platform. I would now rather give that instead of giving some explanation as to why we do not have amendments to this financial law on all our economic policy. So it was just a practical logistical explanation. About our economic policy: Before we went to the elections I think it was back in 2016 we actually got our economic policy figured out, and it was financed crown-to- krone with the changes that we wanted to make. Since then, water has run into the stream, and we are updating it, you might say, but the basic premises in it are the same. We want to remove the labour market contribution, we want to remove top tax, we want to eliminate corporate tax, we want to remove a large number of taxes for citizens. We do this by slimming down, we do this by saying in this House that we can do things better, that we can do it cheaper and that there are also some things we do not need to spend money on. We think it is wrong to spend 36 billion. kr. on non-Western immigration. We think it is wrong to throw away 20 billion. kr. Down to the EU. We think it is wrong to spend 4 billion. kr. on the Danish Radio. There are a large number of points where we can say that. And there we haven't even gone in and looked at the individual things yet. Then we can take redundancy arrangements within the regions. Well, if you go all the way down to the detail, you might be able to account for one where this money's gonna be found, but it's not right here, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150936	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222150938	I'm not trying to say you can't make it. Well, I'm asking about it. I think we can make a society where the public spends more than 100 billion. kr. less every year. I think you can do that. It may be a different society from what we have. It may also be a different society from what the Danes want. We need to be able to have a discussion on the content there, instead of getting out of the blue, as it can do down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is fair enough that we have not had time to table amendments to this day which tell us how the economic policy of the new citizens is going to unfold in the real world. But that's just why I'm asking Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathiesen: Can we not then have a hand at the third reading here today that we will get it, for example? Say in January? We can also draw it in February. It's not for that. It's not the time, it's the time, but it's the fact that we know we're getting an idea of how to make that happen. 'Cause I'm afraid it's gonna hurt the old people in this society. I'm afraid it's gonna hurt the hospitals. I'm afraid it's going to go beyond a police deal where we want more cops. I can't make it stick together, like Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen can from the platform here today. That's why I want it in black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151037	I understand, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can't make it stick together, because that's a new way of thinking. That is a new way of thinking politics. But we are able to do so because we haven't sat in here for so many years and we've grown stuck. So we think that things can be done in a smart way. So we think that you can say to the public and say to the politicians: there are things you should not do. That's like you spending 100 kroner. This year, and I'll tell you that next year you're gonna need 98 kroner. or DKK 98.50. Would it all stop because of that? No! Wouldn't it be possible to make things stick together? You still have 98.50 kroner left. Just don't spend $1.50. Yeah, I guess you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151120	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151126	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking you for your cooperation in the Committee on Health. There we are very much in agreement on many things, but there are also some things that I would like to hear the opinion of the new citizens. We have a hospital service under pressure. We have a psychiatry which is much more under pressure and where we are constantly being told that a 10-year agreement is about to come. I would like to hear: when New Citizens are constantly talking about privatisation, is the hospital system and the whole health system something to be privatised if New Citizens had the power to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151157	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151200	Mrs Liselott Blixt for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151202	I'm glad. But when we talk about nursing homes, I hear that you want many more private nursing homes and free-care homes. So I'm surprised when you used to go out and say it all had to be privatised. That is why I would like to hear how we get the money to be spent when we look at our health care and when we look at a psychiatry that is under pressure. Are these some things New Citizens want to look at? We have been looking at some of this when we tabled amendments to the Finance Act, because we think that something is missing in this whole area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151239	I agree with that and it is not a either-or for us. We're saying it has to be a free choice. After all, we do not believe that there should only be a public hospital service. There must also be a private one, and citizens must have freedom of choice in relation to what they want to use. So for us, it's not a either or. However, I very much agree, and I share the rapporteur's view on psychiatry. It's an area that's been sneaked around. It may be because the people who are hit by it do not have the power to shout. It just makes it our duty to secure it. I would like to look at some things in order to make a long-term plan for this 5 years or 10 years old so as to ensure through the Finance Act that money is set aside for it in a long-term plan so that you can correct it. I don't think there's any way to fix it in one or two years. It's about beds, and it's about continuing training, and some of what those who work with it say is that they do a lot of documentation, which takes about 30-40 percent. of the time that they would actually rather spend on something else. So there are some very specific points on which I think it can actually be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151332	There is just one other person who has signed up to a brief remark, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151343	I would also like to thank you for a very brief speech. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent cooperation, which we also had in Aarhus. So, I'm a little preoccupied with some of what the leader of the Danish People's Party said earlier, namely how to reach the 100 billion. kr. As I remember the rapporteur's words at the beginning, and perhaps I see it as a little nonchalant, that was the thing about getting up there, or that you can just do it and that, and that is also the job centres. But what's it like to get up there? It is fair that there was no time, and I think that has been properly explained. It's fair enough that you didn't have time to do that. But I'm also interested in what it's like to get to that 100 billion. kr. When you tell Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party that it is not the hospitals, is it in the care of the elderly? So, does the rapporteur really think that it is the job centres that can reach somewhere up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151456	But it is as if you have only heard the word 'job centres' and then you have not heard some of the other areas I have pointed out. Well, the job centers were one of them. Then I mentioned Denmark's Radio, so I did not mention Western immigrants, so I mentioned business support. I mean, there are a large number of areas I have mentioned. Our policy is financed crown to crown, but we say that things can be done well in a different and better way. Now we are both from Aarhus, and there are many management layers in the way Aarhus Municipality has arranged itself. In fact, I recall that during the period when we were both on the city council, the current mayor of Aarhus said that 65 or 67 million could be saved. kr. e.g. to change the form of government from the rule of the Magistrates to parliamentary government. And there I'm just saying that it's a purely structural change, and that's one of the things that you could change to go down in the detail. However, in view of the fact that I can stand here on the platform and charge it to every small employee who is to be dismissed or not to be dismissed, I would say that I cannot. That is why, of course, we talk in chunks about how to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151612	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151614	Then I would like to ask you just as briefly as the rapporteur's speech was: can the rapporteur, after New Year, present how the 100 billion is to be achieved in the near future? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151626	Well, we did the same when we went to the polls, and our plan was freely available. Actually, I think if you google it, you can find it. It's not something we've been hiding. Now we are updating it because there have been some finance laws later, which of course change the terms of the figures we use, and therefore it is reasonable that it was in 2016, we put it forward that we are now updating it so that the figures match. There have been changes in electricity taxes and in a large number of areas, which mean that the figures we use are of course not up to date. And so, of course, we ask the Ministry of Finance if we can get some updated figures that we can put in. When we have those numbers, we put them in the model that we have to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151709	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151715	I understand that one of the places where the money is to come from is from non-Western immigration, where the rapporteur started out by saying that we could just get 33 billion. kr. kr. So with that development we could quickly come up to a large amount of money. Does the rapporteur have any evidence whatsoever that there is money to be collected on that scale? Isn't that just a number that's taken right out of thin air?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151744	No, it's not a number I just took. When I say $33 billion. kr. And then 36 billion. kr., it's because it comes from two statements. That is what is called the net cost. Then I said that's what you use. I did not say that this is what can be directly retrieved; I said very precisely that this is what you are using. Because you can't pick up the full amount immediately. There's the damage that's been done in here on the part of the Folketing, too much, so you can just pick it up from one day to the next. It takes a long time to correct the massive errors and failures that the Danish Parliament has made in relation to the expenses that are being charged to the Danes in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151821	Can the rapporteur not reveal how much new citizens actually expect to be able to pick up? Or is it just an air count?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151832	No, that is one of the things we are asking the Ministry of Finance to bring up-to-date figures on. Since we made the latest inventory back in 2016, it's been four years. That is why we need to update the figures in relation to what the Ministry of Finance considers possible from the measures that we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151848	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur for the new citizens. Thank you to the rapporteur and welcome to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I note that there is time for a small despriting of the disk, since Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen quickly came down from the platform. So, please, a little wet napkin before I give the floor to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Ole Birk Olesen Well it's just like it used to be in economic policy. We are also the ones who develop our minds, and then New Citizens just take them over afterwards. So we can also do the work for Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen). Here you go, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222151932	Thank you. Socialism has been voted the words of the year by some people. In fact, I am not entirely aware of who has done it, but they are probably competent to do so, and I think that is a good word. That is why I thought it was very good that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, used the word up here. And I also think that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen gave a very good definition of having a social mind, namely that it is about having confidence that everyone does the best for society as a whole, so that you can do it yourself. That is at least one way of looking at society's mind, and that is an excellent way. I would also like to say that a social spirit and other positive expressions should, of course, be practiced. It shouldn't just be something you preach. We have seen politicians who have gone wrong, for they have preached one, but they have done another. Abroad, it is known from the right that some politicians in such more Puritan countries go around talking a lot about family values and the fact that you have to be your wife's faith etc., and then it is discovered by the boulevard press that they have been in some sex club or at brothel or the like, and then they get hanged because they preached and preached that you should have family values and be your spouse's faith, but they did something else in reality. It's not usually the kind of thing politicians on the left get caught up in. When a left-wing politician in France has a mistress next door, he is almost venerated for it. But the left has it with money. For the Left say that you should not be greedy with money and that you should not care so much about money, so when there are some on the left who suddenly catch that they have been a little greedy, for example. Using parental buying schemes in relation to condominiums, even though they are opposed to what we now know from Enhedslisten, they are caught by the double standards that are in it. Or Ritt Bjerregaard's case that you should behave and not use other people's money, and then she used networks to get a cheap apartment, huge for just her and the man, etc. I mean, that kind of thing gets hit by the left wing. This government must also take great care of things with a social mind. Because now it has been preached so much that it has become the word of the year, and then you have to show it yourself. And in politics, socialism is, of course, thinking about what is good for society and not just what is good for one's own good. It is very tempting for parties that want to be really big and take pride in being big. I remember having a discussion with someone who is a minister today, where I was clearly right. There were a few rounds with it, and then this person, who is Minister today, said that yes, yes, but we are bigger. Like that's an argument. But that is how it is in the Social Democratic Party. You really care about being big, and that is the political profit you want. And if you don't think enough about society, but only think that you want a voter's profit, then you don't show a social mind. It's not like it's social. Socialism would be said to say: this is good for society, so we are striking a blow for it, even if it involves a risk that we might lose some votes for it. It sometimes requires that one should be willing to try to explain some things that may be difficult to understand and that one should like to give it a shell in relation to something that is right, even if it is not popular in the first place. If you always focus only on the popular and never on the right, then you as a politician do not show socialism. In fact, there is a great deal in this government at risk of being a preacher but not practicing. You don't just have to take my word for that. The former Minister for Finance of the Social Democratic Party, Bjarne Corydon, has, of course, with the knowledge he has of the current top of the Social Democratic Party, of the government, been out of everything he knows about what has been said in internal meetings about what should be done and what should not be done, etc. With all the knowledge he has about it, he says that this government is overly concerned about spin and communication and too little about doing the right thing for the country. What he is actually saying is that the government does not have a social mind, because it is only thinking of raising the votes of the Social Democrats and not of what is good for society. Actually, that's what his analysis is. It is, after all, an acquaintance of the Social Democratic Party. It's not just someone who's been outside watching things. It's someone who's been sitting in meetings with mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen and with the Prime Minister and with the Minister of Finance and all sorts of social democrats and there experienced how they time and again • the type of social democrat who is in the leadership of the Social Democratic Party today, and who is in the government today, would rather do what is popular than what is right. Popularism, in short. When even one's own, and even those who know one's well, can see that when one speaks of community mind, it is about all sorts of people other than oneself, while one insists on the right to think of one's own profit and not society as a whole, then one has a problem. What this is going to lead to is the financial law that we are dealing with here and, at the very least, the economic policy that the government stands for. After all, it is extremely short-term and focused on electoral profit rather than being long-term and focused on the country's best. Imagine if there were some left in the mid-1960s who had said that we do not need to make any reforms, because we are doing well in Denmark. People thought this in the mid-1960s, namely that we are doing very well in Denmark and that we do not need to get richer. But then Denmark would today have had a level of prosperity at the level of Mexico and Turkey, i.e. if we had not become richer since the mid-1960s. At that time, people thought they were doing really well. But if we had not gone further, we would be at the same level today with Mexico and Turkey. And do you know what characterises Mexico and Turkey? It is that the citizens of Mexico would rather live in the United States and that the citizens of Turkey would rather live in Europe. People want to get away from those countries because they have not had the prosperity development that we have had in Denmark. And the prosperity development that we have had in Denmark has among other things. have been the result of implementing policies that have kept our prosperity development at a high level and a much higher level than in, for example. the two countries. It may sometimes be difficult to pursue this kind of long-term policy, because the gains are in the future and they can be difficult to see while the costs of pursuing that policy are here and now. Well, you have to tell some people that we actually have to carry out these reforms, even though they are unpopular, because it makes our country better in 10 and 20 years' time. A government that is not willing to do so neglects the social spirit that a government must have. So far, this government and its policy are making the country poorer. Well, we have some business cycles that roll in over Denmark, and you can also borrow a lot of money and start things here and now that you have to pay back later. You can do that, and this government does that. But when it comes to the structures that society has, this government makes Denmark poorer. It does this by pulling people out of the labour market, which could otherwise have contributed. There's this famous Arnepension. 10,000 people will be pulled out of employment as a result of it. There are people, for example. is on early retirement and has an opportunity to retire from the labour market but who chooses not to do so because they can then receive the early retirement allowance if they do not take advantage of the early retirement pay and then they can earn some money while. These aren't worn-out people. But now they get an offer that they can take out the money from the pre-retirement contribution, and then they can just live off Arnepension instead. So this whole good mechanism, which is that you can get something out of staying on the labour market, destroys Arne's pension, and it makes sure that the people who would otherwise have stayed on the labour market do not and accept the Arne's pension and then pull the money out of the early retirement scheme. It is, after all, this kind of short-term policy that the government is pursuing and that is an expression of the lack of a social mind. You just do what works well with the group of voters you want to talk to. In the Liberal Alliance we have a number of proposals on what should be done in Denmark. We have gone to the polls on them, both in 2011, in 2015 and in 2019, so people know them about skinlessness, and our policy has also started to be copied by e.g. New Citizens. But it is such a thing that we want people and companies to invest in Denmark. That is why we should have lower corporation tax, because this leads to more investment in Denmark. This leads to Denmark becoming more productive. This leads to higher hourly wages. This leads to higher incomes, including for employees. We want lower taxes at the bottom of the income scale. We do not think that tax should be paid on the first DKK 7,000 you earn every month, and we would also like to have lower taxes at the top of the income scale. We do not think that we should pay more than 40%. of the last earned crown. So no treasure of the first 7,000 kroner. per month and max. 40% of the rest. We would like green cars to be completely exempt from registration fees. What has now been agreed is that you have to pay 80%. of normal registration fee in 2030, even if you drive around in a green car. But all of this requires reform, and it requires a willingness to say some things that are short-term unpopular but which are long-term good. And that's where the government just gets off. It's very sad. This Finance Act is an expression of it, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is voting against the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222152950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222152956	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a good speech. At one point I was getting a little confused about whether blue politicians were those who all had mistresses and lovers, and whether red politicians were just those who groped for themselves and raised above all were Liberal Alliance politicians. Liberal Alliance and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is pure when it comes to talking about his own politics and talking about ideology and saying what the party wants. I take my hat off for that, which is why my question today also concerns public spending. If Liberal Alliance itself could decide everything, what would the level of public consumption be in Denmark next year and the coming years? After all, the draft budget that we are debating now proposes, including the covid-19 expenditures, that there will be a growth in public consumption of 2.2%. But if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Liberal Alliance's parliamentary group alone could decide what would the growth rate be for the coming year in public consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153102	We in the Liberal Alliance are people like everyone else, and that is why we are sinners like everyone else. Not in a religious context, but in a human context, we sin all the time and make mistakes all the time, and so do we. But we do our best in political terms not to cheat people, and I think that people might learn a little from that, that is to say, try not to cheat people. If we were to be able to decide, we would have to make the operation of the public sector more efficient by 1%. a year for 10 years, so that the public sector will be 10%. cheaper. We have this from the figures that came from the Productivity Commission set up by the Helle Thorning-Schmidt Government. They examined some aspects of municipal welfare, the largest parts of municipal welfare, and said that the potential, if only all municipalities were as effective as the most efficient municipalities, is that you can do things at least 10%. cheaper in the municipalities under one. And then they said that it had the probability that it could be done throughout the public sector. So that is the starting point for our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153204	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153206	That sounds like the policy of the Liberal Alliance. If now the culprits of the Liberal Alliance have to look at it all from a pragmatic point of view that the Liberal Alliance might come to parliament after the next elections... maybe it goes so wrong that we get a blue majority in the Folketing, where the Liberal Alliance can become either part of a blue government or part of the parliamentary basis of a blue government... where does the red line go for the Liberal Alliance in relation to the growth of public spending? Will the Liberal Alliance be able to accept a blue government that has the same growth rates as the current government is proposing? Or where exactly is the red line for the Liberal Alliance, if one is to be pragmatically involved in blue cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153254	Well, we don't want to put such a concrete red line on anything. We feel that we have bad experiences with this. The moment you put a red line, there's a sport in it for the others to get you to break the red line, and we don't even want to do that anymore. We have an ambition that we should clearly have lower public consumption growth than what the Socialist Government is doing at the moment. But exactly where it is, I can't say. If we get a lot on some other points and get less here, we can also be happy. That is the lesson: you have to strike where you can get something, and then you have to care less about it where you can't get anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153336	The next brief remark is to Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153341	Thank you very much. It went faster than I expected. I'm gonna start somewhere a little different than I really intended. I would like to congratulate LA on their generally clear interpretation of their own policy, but I was still a little puzzled. I myself started at the age of 15 full-time on the labour market in my first apprenticeship. I had a father who, after 48 years on the labour market, could retire at the age of 61 on what was then called early retirement. So, on the other hand, I'm gonna treat you not to show a little bit of empathy or understanding for people who have been on the labour market for so many years, when they have a dignified opportunity to leave the labour market. But, as I said, I would like to commend you for generally putting your policy forward clearly. You're going to LA for a tax reduction. LA does not operate with a tax freeze, but can I nevertheless entice the rapporteur to give his bid for a definition of the word tax freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153438	We have plenty of empathy for people who want to leave the labour market earlier than the retirement age sets, and that is why we have also developed the proposal that all people should be allowed to pay 675 DKK. a month on what we call a free pension account. You can do that tax-free. That is our proposal. This can also be done today in pension schemes, but unlike other pension schemes, they can be withdrawn tax-free later on. This means that, after 40 years in the labour market, so much money has been saved that you would be able to retire five years earlier in relation to a retirement pension with the same amount as you would have if you were going on a retirement pension. So you can withdraw with your own money; you have the flexibility in your life that you are not dependent on what Social Democracy thinks or what the Radical Left thinks or what the Liberal Alliance thinks, because you have your own money and can choose to do what you want to do. That is our policy. We just think it's better than the social democracy policy where people retire with other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153537	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153539	I think that was only an answer to part of the question I was trying to get an answer to. Could I have LA's rapporteur say what a definition of a tax freeze could be?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153557	Well, when you ask two questions in one, or ask about two important agendas in one question, it can be hard to remember both, and sometimes it pinches for me. We perceive the tax freeze approximately in the same way that the Left does it • it was they who invented it at the time, and we have actually adopted it • so that one should not raise taxes that are nominal, in kroner and ear, and one should not raise taxes that are in percentages, in percentages. And if you do, it must at least be because it has some compelling necessity behind it, and then the proceeds that come in from it must be used to reduce other taxes accordingly, preferably for the same groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153636	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153640	Thank you. I'm just gonna sign for something I heard a moment ago from mr. Ole Birk Olesen's side, namely that, in a future cooperation, Liberal Alliance will focus more on what you can get out of it and not so much on what you can't get out of it. I think that shows a certain change from years ago. I really thought it was nice to hear. But it's something else I'd just like to ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. As I understand it, the rapporteur says that 10% can be cut. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. kr. No). I know it's about pre- and post-behavior, that's what you think there, but sir... Ole Birk Olesen responds to afterwards instead of standing and shaking his head. However, I would just like to say in relation to the elderly, that in many municipalities there will be a doubling of the number of 8/80-year-olds, and in the view of the Danish People's Party there will be a need for additional resources to help the many more older people who want care. And I just want to be sure it's not there, sir. Ole Birk Olesen sees that many of the money needed to reduce public expenditure can be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153749	Well, first of all, we have become more aware of the things that were going on back then. The question is sometimes whether the Danish People's Party is. After all, we have stopped our fall in polls. Dansk Folkeparti hasn't, and it can be because Dansk Folkeparti hasn't learned more about the things that Dansk Folkeparti did wrong in the last term. One of the things was that every time the Liberal Alliance proposed something, even though it was so close to the Danish People's Party's political programme, a sport went in for the Danish People's Party that the Liberal Alliance should not have implemented it. It was a strange way of acting, and I think that is one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party has been punished. So the question is also whether the Danish People's Party has become wiser. We are in favour of the demographic features of the elderly being followed by more money, but in this area we can of course make the elderly more efficient. That is what the Productivity Commission actually said, in other words, that the area of the elderly is one of the places where it is so that if only the worst municipalities were to be as good as the best municipalities, 10 per cent could be saved. And it is not, of course, by making it American, but it is, for example, that a municipality that is ineffective becomes as good as a municipality that is efficient, for example. The Municipality of Vejle or the Municipality of Frederiksberg. And it's not like in Vejle or in Frederiksberg the old people feel really bad. So you have to learn from each other in the public sector, and you can learn from the elderly too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153901	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153903	I'm gonna have to promise you the pulse came up. I don't know how I just lit it. I'm sorry, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, for it was not my intention at all to anger Mr. Ole Birk Olesen up in any possible way. And we can drink a lot of coffee on occasion and discuss the past, because that was not my intention here either. In fact, it was an attempt to look at how the economic policy of the Liberal Alliance will affect the situation, among other things. In the area of the elderly, that's what I was asking. I am not pale to say that there can of course be efficiency, but I just think that when I see that there is an opportunity to make the elderly more efficient, I can see that that money is needed in the area of the elderly. I mean, I can't take that money out of the elderly and use it for tax relief. And that's just what I wanted to be sure of, that's how Mr. Neither does Ole Birk Olesen, nor does it mean that the efficiency that can be achieved in the area of older people can be achieved, and this is certainly what is needed in the area of the elderly in the future in relation to the more elderly, especially the elderly, who are coming and who actually need the warm hands of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222153956	If, for example, we make things more efficient. in the area of the elderly by 10%. and do it 10%. It is also important to ensure that the local authorities are able to meet the needs of the local authorities and that the local authorities are able to meet the needs of the local authorities. But if, at the same time, there is an increase in the number of elderly people, for example. 10 per cent, the amount must then increase accordingly, so that in the end there is as much money as before you started, but in the way that each crown is used better, so you get more out of each crown. So our policy includes both making things better and cheaper, but at the same time can also put more money in when more people need the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222154036	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222154057	Thank you, President. I've been an angler my whole life. Especially have I been fishing for sea trout from the coast with fly rod. For those who do not know it, I can say that it's about finding a coast, then you put on your waders, then you walk 10 m into the water until you're in the water to the navel, and then you stand and swing your fly rod for hours. It's not often I catch anything. Personally, I attribute it to the fact that it is really difficult to catch sea trout, but more experienced fishermen may think that I am not good enough. No matter what, I have invested thousands of hours in all kinds of weather at all times of the year on all kinds of shores, and I do not regret it for a second, because it has been unique natural experiences that I would not have missed, regardless of the fact that it is very rare that I come home to my boyfriend with fresh fish. I am also a diver and a wildernessman, and in general nature has played a huge role in my life. When you are a natural lover and a politician in Denmark's greenest party, it is clear that I am pleased that the alternative is included in the greenest finance law Denmark has ever had. In fact, I think the Finance Act is good in its entirety, and I also noticed that the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, was out to praise it in his first comment. He was so beaten up in the press, because then he wasn't clear enough, and then he had a problem with conflict and what else they wrote. It is clear that the press needs conflict angles to make money, but I think it is actually good style when the leader of the great bourgeois party praises a red government when it has made a sensible financial law. In this way, I think it is important that we sometimes step out of this conflict focus, we walk around in here in the Folketing, and show some format. In fact, I think the President of the Left did just that. Last year's Finance Act was the greenest ever. This finance law is even greener, and that obviously means that it is relevant for the alternative to be included. We are particularly proud of the fact that we have managed to have a small billion devoted to biodiversity, i.e. wild nature, which lives on its own terms. In 2015 we were the first party to come to parliament with an independent natural policy, and in 2016 we came with the large natural package of the Alternative, where we proposed large areas laid out for wild nature with large grassers, for example. Bisons. Up to the elections in 2019 we created a 4-year plan for an immediate boost of the Danish nature. And with this finance bill, many of our dreams are suddenly realized. Of course, this is not done alone, so I would like to thank the support parties and the government warmly for helping to allocate a small billion, i.e. 888 million. kr. to biodiversity, i.e. what is commonly called wild and diverse nature. Here you have to hold on: we have set aside money for 15 new national parks and 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. And now there are probably many who are not accustomed to raining in hectares, but 75,000 ha of untouched forest actually amounts to 2%. of Denmark's land area. Since we only had less than 1%. Wild nature in Denmark in advance, it is a huge leap, and to that you have to put the natural parks, which we are raining on the area of the Alternative at the moment. In addition, we have opened up biodiversity at sea, and it actually comes directly from a little trip we had, where the WWF invited the Environment Committee to take a trip to Øresund from the Øresund Aquarium with the head of the Øresund Aquarium as a captain. The Committee on the Environment came out on the Øresund a wonderful morning and was told that it is a fantastic rich healthy place I actually knew well in advance that runs here close to our capital. We were told how long-range eelgrass belts are a breeding area for fish that distributes into our other waters, how hundreds of guinea pigs • our little protected whale • gather in the Sound, and we were told that there was a small chance that we could see tuna. Now I've been staring at the ocean for thousands of hours, so it's clear that I did this as well as I could. And then I saw one mile away in the vicinity of Sweden, that there was a huge splash. So that's what I said to our captain, that's gotta be tuna. And then he turned up those two giant engines, and our boat came up to plan, and within 10 seconds we had sailed almost 1 km, and the boat was reclining on the waves, and suddenly that 300 kg of tuna comes out of the water 100 m from the boat. It just splashed once and splashed down like it was a car, and it gave such a magical atmosphere on the boat. So, the Environment Committee was a little euphoric for a few minutes, and the head of the Øresund aquarium became quite manic, and he speed-talked for 15 minutes. You could hardly hear what he said, but we had such a fantastic atmosphere, just as you might know when you see dolphins from a sailboat. That experience came in the paper the next day, but there he forgot to tell us that it was the alternative rapporteur who had discovered the tuna. It could have been nice; I would have liked to have taken that on my cape, because there are many who think that we are just such paper pushers in here. But at least it came in the paper, and I also took the experience home, and when we negotiated biodiversity, we succeeded and thank you for it; thank you for the support • to get 10 million. kr. negotiated through to the Øresund, to start by picking up ghost nets and starting to re-establish rock reefs. I hope this will be the start of developing marine national parks in Denmark and also spreading biodiversity to the sea. In the alternative, we set an ambitious marker by 2030, where we need 10%. Strictly protected nature, and one out in 2040, where we need 20 per cent. strictly protected nature, both at sea and on land. This is ambitious, but we hope that it is the objective of the Alternative that will become law, as was the case with the 70-percent reduction of CO2 In addition to the great commitment to biodiversity, there are also a number of other green points in the Finance Act that we particularly welcome in the Alternative. This applies to large pools for the phasing out of oil pine, 0.5 billion. kr. for state and municipal bicycle paths, over 0.5 billion. kr. for cleaning up generational pollution, subsidies for green housing improvements, and I could actually go on. However, there are also measures other than the green ones that we welcome in the Finance Act. Here we are very pleased that the support system for free psychological assistance, which we have also been fighting for in the Alternative for some years, is being continued and that we are taking a major step in the introduction of minimum standards. And then we're happy with the 16 million-dollar pool. kr. to accompany people with disabilities. We are also pleased to have left our own prints on the Finance Act, and one of them is the pot for entrepreneurship in youth education, which allows young people to work with a business idea in youth education, in upper secondary schools and in vocational schools, where you can develop a business idea that you then take with you through your education and develop further in relation to the various subjects. After all, we are all talking about Denmark being an innovation country, being an inventor country and developing new ideas for the sustainable transition on the world market. It therefore requires that we are some who get the ideas. This requires that we massage creativity into the school system. Finally, I would like to mention one thing which has not been included in the Finance Act, but which the alternative would have liked to have included, and that is the financing of the beginning of the dismantling of spouse-dependent benefits. I don't think the media have realized that I think they would have written it if they had realized it, but it's actually the case that some of our lowest incomes are taxed five times. This is true, for example. couples where one works and the other is an early retirement or pensioner. They run the risk of having to be taxed on their income, i.e. the ordinary income tax, then they have to be taxed if they have been paid out, for example. In addition, they must be taxed because they live together, they must be taxed because they are boyfriends, and in the end the person who has a job must actually pay a gift tax to support the other person. Well, that is a five-fold tax on those people who already earn the least, and I would say that is one of the things we need to get rid of. This is one of the things we need to get across to the public, in other words that we have put a tax on the lowest incomes that are totally unfair, plus that a lot of cohabitants, in which one works, are in fact in such a tax border country because they do not know when the worker will have to pay the gift tax on the money which he has almost to hand over to his/her cohabitants, who are a pensioner or an early retirement pensionist, because it is in the rules that he/she will be reduced to benefit because he/she has a job. I have asked both the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Employment about this several times here in the Danish Parliament, and I think they continue to refer to each other. That is something we need to be clear about in the coming year: people who have already been taxed four times on a transfer income must also pay a gift tax if, for example, they are to pay a gift tax. Is the boyfriend paying the dentist's bill? But all in all, the Alternative is happy to be part of this Finance Act, so I just want to say thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155003	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155009	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I think the rapporteur is selling the green in the Financial Act very well. I also think that the rapporteur oversells it a little, so I would like to ask the rapporteur how much this financial agreement reduces CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155030	I cannot say that quite precisely, and some of the things that reduce CO2 I shall not be able to say I do not actually know whether it is calculated exactly what the entire Finance Act reduces CO2 the tax agreement, for which funding is also provided, could not even find out how to make any solid CO2 so that at least we need to tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155129	Thank you. I can then inform you that it reduces CO2 tonnes. That's 0.3 million. t less than last year. So to call this financial agreement historically green, you probably cannot at least say when it comes to climate, because last year we were many people who may have thought that the climate was not the top priority in the Finance Act. In view of this, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the Socialist Government is fulfilling its historically green mandate when there are so few initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155209	It depends on whether you relate the so-called green tax agreement and the car agreement and things like that to the Finance Act, but just as happy as I am for this huge leap in biodiversity, which meant that we got undivided praise from all the green organisations on the same day.I don't think we're ever going to see that again. What I commend here is a biodiversity package of historic dimensions, and what I criticise very, very strongly is that the initiatives have come to a halt, and that is why, dear Left, we need to look very, very carefully at agriculture this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155256	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and since I do not see that the North Atlantic mandates are present in today's debate, it has become time to welcome the acting Minister of Finance in the form of the Minister of Taxation. Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222155332	Thank you very much for a very good debate that we have had during today's day, and also thank you very much for the floor here, of course. I think I can sense a little bit in the debate that we are all now looking forward to the Christmas peace being able to sink over Things and over us, but after all, no more than that today we have had a very good opportunity to bring about some marked differences in Danish politics. And it's healthy, because that's what we're elected for, and I'd actually like to sign for that. There is no doubt that the financial law of the year has come into being on a very gloomy backdrop. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about the seriousness of the situation we are in now. In recent days and weeks, we have seen a worrying development in the coronasmit both at home and also in the countries around us. We are right now in the most serious place since the pandemic hit us in March, and this means that we are looking into a 2021 that is characterised by very great uncertainty. However, Denmark is well equipped to deal with this uncertainty. We are among the countries in the world that have so far managed best through the crisis. When corona hit us in the spring, we quickly and firmly set in against the spread of infection, and at the same time we took far-reaching steps to get Danish jobs and Danish companies safely through the storm that hit us. We must continue that course. First of all, we need to get control of the infection; that is the most important thing, also for the sake of our economy; then we need to stick to our efforts to get Denmark and the Danish economy safely through the crisis. For crisis policy is a political choice. Ever since the corona hit us, the government has had one focus: to ensure that we get through the crisis together • Danish families, employees and companies. It is a social democratic crisis policy and it is a significantly different crisis policy from that which was pursued when Denmark was last in a serious economic crisis. Some ten years ago, the financial crisis raged, and we saw, unfortunately, that thousands of Danes were affected by serious consequences in terms of unemployment and great uncertainty. It has been an absolutely crucial objective for the government to prevent it from repeating itself. That is why we have made every effort to protect Danish jobs and the economy of Danish families. We are in a crisis of historic dimensions, and that is why we have also pursued an historically lax fiscal policy. With the agreements made by the government throughout the year, we have secured a boost to the Danish economy of a total of 135 billion. kr. This means that we are holding hands under around 80 000 Danish jobs by 2020 and 55 000 jobs by 2021. It is therefore jobs that everything else would have just disappeared if we had not pursued that policy and if we had not put in place comprehensive aid packages and economic stimulus. This is a firm proof that the Danish way out of the crisis is the right one. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the responsibility shown by all parties in the Folketing through 2020. Together we have made broad agreements for the Danish economy, which have been crucial to our way through the crisis. With wage compensation schemes, we have held our hands under more than 280,000 employees with a total of more than 12.7 billion. kr.; we have paid more than 7.5 billion. kr. to more than 26,000 companies in compensation for fixed costs; and finally, we have strengthened business liquidity by about 300 billion. kr. So we have been holding hands under Danish companies for a difficult time. Over the past year we have shown the Danes that the broadest solutions are created when we work together here in the Danish Parliament, also in times of crisis. I hope and urge that the good cooperation we have shown here will continue in 2021 as well. However, let me address what the debate is also about here today, namely the budget law for 2021. It is a financial law where we give priority to welfare despite the crisis, a financial law in which, with significant investments in green conversion, we set the path for Denmark to come greener out of the crisis. When the government came into office last year, we set a new direction for welfare, where we develop instead of dismantling and where we invest in our community. That is the direction we are continuing now. With the 2021 Finance Act, we have put a total of 5 billion. kr. to strengthen welfare, with a particular focus on creating better conditions for children, young people and the elderly. It will certainly be on top of the boosts that we secured with the economic agreements with the regions and with the municipalities in the spring. Here we strengthened the municipal welfare area with a total of 1.5 billion. kr. in 2021. This allows room to cover demographic developments and, at the same time, we strengthened health care by just over 1.3 billion. kr. in 2021. This means that costs will be paid for when there are more elderly patients with an increased need for treatment, while at the same time there is room for dealing with medical costs and employing more healthcare professionals. It is crucial for the government that Denmark gets out of the crisis more fairly. Therefore, we continue to develop our welfare, but Denmark must also be greener. We need to green out and through the crisis, and that is precisely what we have taken a number of significant steps to ensure just the last few weeks. We have concluded a number of agreements aimed both at securing the jobs of the Danes and at putting the green transition into completely new gear. We have reached an agreement on a green tax reform that will create thousands of new jobs in the years to come and pave the way for a long-term and ambitious green business transition. We have made an agreement on a green future for road transport, which will change the Danish car park forever. Finally, we have concluded two significant stimuli on the Danish economy, where we pay out the rest of the Danes' frozen holiday money and at the same time provide targeted help to Danish export companies, support the experience economy, invest in local conversion initiatives and set aside money for green recovery. Together with the 2021 Finance Act, these agreements mean that we're sending a total of 55 billion. kr. in the coming years, and at the same time we are cutting 2.8 million. t of our CO2 This is a green reboot of Denmark. Last but not least, we are taking new steps to strengthen the security of our society. Last week a majority of Parliament's parties agreed on a new multi-year agreement for Danish police. With 20 new local police units, 450 extra officers and a new national investigation unit, we will have a Danish police force closer to the citizens, and at the same time we will target organised crime. In this context, I would like to thank a very broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties for taking responsibility and contributing to this agreement, which will be crucial for the safety and security of the Danes in the coming years. We know in this regard that the Danish police are quite often in very difficult situations where police officers are in direct contact with citizens, where crucial choices have to be made in a split second. It is crucial that there is broad support for the work of the Danish police, and so I would like to express my very warm thanks to all the parties involved in that agreement. But let me now turn to the speeches made by the rapporteurs in today's debate, and I would like to start by expressing my support for the speech made by Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left, who remarked that there are basically two ways in Danish politics. There's, like, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen said the socialist path, and then there is the left path. I must be quite honest and say that although it has been a little difficult for me to find out what the Left is really about, Mr President. Troels Lund Poulsen is actually right. But the good question right now is, I think, whether the Left actually knows which way they will go. And it has to be said that the confusion became total in today's debate, not least in terms of what kind of a version of the left's so-called tax freeze is now to be practised, and there was also a major discussion about where to find it. Can you find it on the Left's website or not? It is still an open question. And what version are we looking for on the Left's website? Is it Anders Fogh Rasmussen's tax stop, or is it Lars Løkke Rasmussen's tax stop? It's a little uncertain. However, where there is no confusion, with regard to the Left's very clear statement today, there is that if you get the opportunity, you will roll back the right to early retirement. I must say that is extremely clear speech, and let us try to dwell on it a little. The right that you want to roll back is a right that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has now given to those who have worn and dragged the longest on the Danish labour market. They have now been given a right to withdraw earlier. It is a right about which the Left has said today that if they regain power, they will fight for it to be taken away from them. In this way, the policy of the Left in this time of crisis is exactly the same as we saw during the last major economic crisis, namely during the financial crisis. The left will weaken the safety net, while thousands of people stand and look directly into a very uncertain situation. Unfunded tax cuts will be granted instead of strengthening the community that makes Denmark stick together. In this way, it is true that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen notes that there are two ways in Danish politics that are the path of the Left, and there is the path of social democracy. I totally agree. I would like to end this part of the speech by saying a great deal of thanks to the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten, who supported the agreement on the right to a previous pension, and thus helped cement a change of track, also in economic policy and in welfare policy in Denmark. Ever since the crisis hit us, the government has set a clear direction to get Denmark and the Danes through the crisis. We have chosen the path of the community and made a massive effort to ensure the health of the Danes, the jobs of the Danes, Danish companies and the economy of Danish families. We have done so because we must have everyone safe with us through the crisis, and we must prevent the violent consequences it has for thousands of Danes, the last time we were in a similar crisis, namely during the financial crisis for approx. Ten years ago. That is why we have made a historic effort to secure the Danes' jobs, and at the same time we have invested in the future, so that Denmark will emerge stronger from the crisis. In this small country with a very open economy, we live figuratively from education. That is why, with the Finance Act, we have set 1.7 billion. kr. of the next four years to take up upper secondary education and to improve basic education. So we are building on what is our greatest strength and which creates even more skilled employees, even in the future. At the same time, we have set in motion a significant green reboot of Denmark, where investments create the basis for thousands of new jobs, reducing our CO2 Contrary to what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen states that the government has, in the same way, eased the tax in a number of areas. We've set 340 million. kr. to improve the housing job scheme in 2021 so that we create growth and new jobs and make everyday life easier for Danish families. We're investing 3.8 billion. kr. in increased deductions for corporate investment in research and training by raising it to 130 per cent, and we have reached an agreement on tax reform of 4.8 billion. kr. up to 2025, which will generate growth and activity in Danish companies in the coming years. We've invested 4.8 billion. kr. up to 2025 in a green transformation of the transport sector, which will drive new technology with it, and at the same time we have lowered the base tax. Thus we have also set a clear direction for how Denmark gets out of the crisis in a way that ensures that the community is safe and where we make Denmark both richer, safer and greener for future generations. We have to wait and see what 2021 brings, what a tax freeze the Left is finding they think they need. I hope they find it so that we can find out what the Left really wants. Certainly, we are on the threshold of a new year with new enormous tasks, not least when it comes to the climate. In this context, I hope that the Left will find the way for them to back up the search for broad cooperation. That is what the Danes expect from us. That is the call we are all being asked to make. We need a broad cooperation because it is best for Denmark, not least in the situation we are in now. Finance law is politics, said Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. And I have to say, of course, I totally agree with that. I hope that doesn't surprise you. With the Finance Act, as I said, we are making clear political impressions on the society we would like to have in 2021. It is a society in which we can afford to develop our welfare, not least in the area of the elderly, as Mr. René Christensen also highlighted. Because we believe that there is a need to significantly strengthen care and presence in the care of the elderly, and that is why we have set 1.9 billion. kr. of the next four years. And I have to admit, I don't recognize sir. René Christensen's criticism that we don't know what we're getting for the money. Our goal is that the municipalities employ 1,000 more people in the care of the elderly. Because when you have worked your whole life for the welfare society that we other people enjoy, you have to be treated with proper care and dignity when you get yourself into a situation where you need help. I think the Danish People's Party agrees 100% with that. Now Mr. René Christensen, for the policy of the past, then, when the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the bourgeois governments' financial laws and let me remind you here of the clear difference between the financial laws and those we have seen over the last few years, not least when it comes to welfare policy, because, unlike the bourgeois governments, the Social Democracy has set a new direction for our welfare, where we give priority to funds, so that the money comes with when there are more older and more children in the future. Instead of reducing welfare and lubricating it thinner and thinner, if you like, we are investing in a stronger community and, above all, in a community which also covers what I think Mr. René Christensen also mentioned the question of the demographic move: is there money when there is more? On top of that, we set aside additional funds to develop welfare, among other things. in the care of the elderly, and in the circumstances of our children, and that is, despite the fact that, as I said, we are in a very great economic crisis in history. Sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radicals used much of his speech today to thank all those who have taken responsibility and made extraordinary efforts in the difficult time we are in with the Corona crisis. I'm one hundred percent in agreement. We owe them thanks for their enormous efforts. There are a lot of people who, both in the public sector and in our companies, have given an extra boost to overtime, have taken extra shifts, taken hold and taken care of colleagues who have had a difficult time, and of families who may have been affected by corona, and have taken on a huge responsibility. We owe them enormous thanks for the efforts they have made. I fully agree with Mr. Andreas Steenberg in that we have concluded a number of good agreements that make Denmark stronger and make our common future greener. These are historic agreements on green conversion, on greener business, on a green future for road transport, and now also a financial law that will help Denmark better through the crisis. As Mr. Andreas Steenberg emphasised that we have jointly turned years of profoundly damaging savings on education, that we are now investing in future generations, and that we ensure, above all, that we have the competences to seize the many thousands of green jobs that are waiting for us in the future. We have also put a new line in our cultural and media life. There is no doubt that 2020 has been a true year of terror for many cultural opportunities. That is why I am glad that we are together with, among others. Radical Left has put a thick line on the fact that strong cultural offers are essential for a diverse and enlightened society. With the Finance Act, we have, as I have said, set more than 400 million. kr. towards 2024 for museums, music, songs and sports all over the country. At the same time, we bring culture down to children's height with a special children's and young culture package. Finally, we strengthen our public service by cancelling the anticipated savings in DR from 2022 onwards. It will bring peace to the Danish Radio's economy, and that is what is needed. That is why we must warmly thank the Radical Left for proving that they, like the government, have a heart that beats both for an ambitious green transition and for responsible and wise investments in our common future. SF also deserves a great thank you for the good cooperation throughout the year. In the government, we are in complete agreement with Mr. Karsten Hønge, who emphasised in his speech that with the Finance Act for next year we are taking important steps to take better care of the most precious thing we have, namely our children. The Finance Act brings us closer to our common ambition that Denmark should be the world's best country to have children in. The government has promised that we will always be on the side of the children, and now we are again putting action behind the words. A childhood in Denmark must be equal to security, well-being and also stimulating settings. A safe start to life is crucial for all children. Last year we set a new milestone by introducing minimum standards in the daily institutions and this year we are taking another step by speeding up the phasing-in of minimum standards by one year, so that, as I said, they will apply from 2024. In addition, it is a crucial priority for the government that we take better care of children, not least children at risk, so that we create a better framework and more stability in the everyday lives of the most difficult children today and so that we avoid, as Mr. Karsten Hønge so rightly said that poverty and insecure conditions become a tattoo that children carry with them throughout their lives. In the new year, the government will come up with an initiative that puts the children first. We look forward to making a good deal on that, not least with SF. With the 2021 Finance Act, we are investing in solving the major challenges we face, said Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. That is absolutely right, and not least climate change, which on long stretches is our biggest social challenge right now. With the political agreements of recent weeks, we have put a thick line under the fact that we have to do it well and properly so that we get out of the crisis in a good and green way. We put turbo on the phasing-out of oil and gas pine and on the deployment of charging stations for electric cars, we promote CO2 With the agreement on a green tax reform, which Enhedslisten unfortunately did not want to be a part of, we are taking the first steps towards a uniform CO2 Rune Lund. For we fully agree with Enhedslisten on the goal: A uniform price for CO2 In the government, however, we believe that the business community should have the opportunity to adapt, so that we do not lose many Danish jobs on the floor along the way. We must ensure that everyone is involved in the very big change that we have set in motion, in and out of a green Denmark. With all the agreements we have made over the last month, we have moved towards, and significantly closer to, the 70-percent target set by the Climate Act. Overall, the agreements amount to about 2.8 million. t reduction of our CO2 This means that in just over a year and a half, as has been the case since the government arrived, we have reached a third of the way to our 2030 target. I have to say that, frankly, I think we can be familiar. I can assure you, sir. Rune Lund says that in the coming years too, the government will keep its nose straight when it comes to the green transition. The Conservative People's Party is behind the government in the fight against the Corona, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. I would like to say straight away that the government very much appreciates the cooperation shown by the Conservative People's Party over the last year. Most recently, we have made good agreements with the Conservatives on stimuli and the payment of Danes' holiday money and also on a green tax reform and, above all, as I said, on a police reform that strengthens Danes' security. We fully agree with the Conservatives that we need to pursue a responsible economic policy, because that is the way for Denmark out of the crisis. Therefore, the Finance Act and the other agreements for a green restart of Denmark are fully funded within responsible frameworks. We still have, if you like, dry powder in the war box, as the Minister for Finance has said on maternity leave, so that we can take action at a later stage in 2021, if necessary. However, the government does not agree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says we shouldn't invest in welfare. Because, in our view, a strong and future-proof welfare society is an important condition for Denmark to get through the crisis, as I have said. We must bring everyone along, and we will have that if we also invest in the welfare of the future and in the jobs and education that we all have to live on. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, from New Citizens, once again remarked this year, with an ultra-card and, incidentally, a very cash presentation about the government's and contract parties' financial laws. I'd like to thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for the clear message, which clearly shows that there are also very marked differences in Danish politics. Despite this, I would like to congratulate New Citizens for helping to take responsibility for the future of the Danish police, too, by behind the police agreement. And so both I believe and hope that in the years to come we will also see New Citizens around the table when more agreements need to be negotiated, because one thing is certain: 2020 has taught us that Denmark stands strongest when we find each other in broad agreements in this room. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate, and I would particularly like to thank the parties for backing this year's Finance Act. Thank you to the parliamentary basis of the government, thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had. Thank you to the parties that have been included in the other agreements. It is a good thing that we are able to make decisions which contain decisive decisions on staggering billions of dollars, which are so important for the everyday lives of ordinary people as the agreements we have made here have had. We have been able to handle this in broad cooperation and in broad agreements, and the government appreciates it immensely, so do the Danes, that is what they expect from us. That is why, as I said, I hope that this cooperation can continue and that the line set out in this year, and particularly in the context of the Financial Law Agreement, will also be seen again in 2021, where we must both ensure that Denmark gets through the crisis safely, that the lowest possible costs are created by the crisis and, at the same time, tackle an ambitious green transformation of Denmark, so that the Denmark that comes out on the other side of the crisis is a Denmark that is both stronger, fairer and more green. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162231	Thank you. There are a lot of short remarks. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162237	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the attention that is being paid to the tax freeze on the Left by the Minister of Finance. We're really happy about that. We also hope that at some point the Social Democratic Party intends to stop raising taxes and levies. But what really got me on the field was something else. There has been a debate in this debate about whether one becomes richer or poorer as a society, and it was not least the Socialist rapporteur who taught us during his speech that this government is doing a great deal to make Denmark richer. Therefore, I just want to know whether it is not true what the acting Finance Minister has answered a question from Eva Kjer Hansen, namely that if you look at the actions that have been carried out since the general election in 2019, they have had a negative impact on approx. 14 billion kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162333	The immediate bnp effect is described in the answer • it is quite right but you have to see the government's policy in a context. You have to see what this government has led: support for the Danish economy, securing employees' jobs and securing the future of companies. 79,000 jobs have been secured by the government's policies this year alone. 55,000 jobs are secured in 2021. With the Finance Act made alone, 14,000 new jobs are secured. So it's wrong to focus solely on this question. We support the Danish economy, ensure growth and employment. And I think it is important to say this very, very clearly: the alternative to what the government and the broad majority have done is, in the view of the government, not existing. Because if we did not do what we are doing now, the crisis would put itself in long-term unemployment, long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and a hard time for not only Danish economy and Danish companies, but also for plenty of Danish employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162447	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162449	Thank you. I think that, as a government, one should be a little more humble. You get the feeling that it is the government that has ensured that the Corona crisis has been dealt with in terms of the financial aid packages that have been made. I think we should just be a little more humble there, because it is a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament who has done so. But humility does not lie with the acting Finance Minister; that is what has been said. What does the government intend to do when there is a confession case about the government having made Denmark 14 billion? kr. poorer? What plans are being made to recreate the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162523	This government has put in place the most ambitious strategy for the green transformation of Danish society. A historically lax fiscal policy has been pursued, which means that Danish companies will have better opportunities to convert their production into a greener future in a time of crisis and to win new green jobs at the latest, not least with a green tax reform, where up to 2025 overall we will provide relief for 5.3 billion. kr. for a green switch. This will create 5,000 new jobs in 2022. It is ambitious, and it helps to ensure that the Danish economy is brought forward again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162609	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162614	Thank you. In Danish society we have some people who are not supposed to be here at all, and a large number of of them have committed very hard crimes • we call them people on tolerated stays • we want to get out of the country. We went to the elections in the spring of 2019 to establish an exit centre on the island of Lindholm, because we had to make it less interesting for these people to stay in Denmark and to refuse to participate in their own return journey. The government then and the Social Democratic Party, on the other hand, went to the polls that it should not become anything with the island of Lindholm, but put the Danes in a position to expect an alternative to have an alternative. It has now been a year and a half, and no alternative has been initiated under this financial law either. So, sir. Acting Minister of Finance, can we get a message here in the Danish Parliament about when the Social Democratic Party intends to live up to its electoral promise and secure a new exit centre that creates conditions for these people so that they will have an interest in turning their way home instead of burdening Denmark and the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162714	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162715	I am well aware that the reality of Lindholm as an exit centre is that it would be a long time before it was established. The government has taken a firm stand on this situation. We have ensured that the persons concerned are now there where they belong, at the exit centres, and we have ensured, as far as the restrictions surrounding them are concerned, that, of course, the necessary consequences will also be drawn from possible infringements of the sanctions that may be imposed. And then it is clear that there is even a great deal of work going on to get the people in question out of the country. I think that work has become even more focused on the origin and origin of the government than it has had under the previous government. We are faced with some of the same problems and challenges, but it should not stop us from strengthening that effort and ensuring that, through priorities in the central administration, we put pressure on those countries which are therefore obliged to take back their own expelled citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162827	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162829	That's a strange answer. That's a very, very strange answer. It is as if the government has now handled it and says: we have a firm hand around this; we are now providing it in relation to these people. Well, hello! Was what we heard here, in fact, a functioning Finance Minister who cancelled a new exit centre, so cancelled the arrival of a new exit centre and is talking into the fact that it is now under control, and then we are working with some countries and hope that we can get them home? Well, I am asking about the new exit centre, which the Social Democratic Party put forward to the Danes would replace the island of Lindholm, as the rest of us had planned. It's been a year and a half since when? When does the Social Democratic Party tell the Danish people when it will happen, what will happen, how to do the conditions for these people at the new exit centre of a character, so that they will have a greater interest in contributing to their own repatriation? For we must get them out of the land; that is what the goal is. So when's that exit center coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162921	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162922	We're in complete agreement. They have to get out of the country. They don't belong in Denmark. That is why, if you like, the thumb screws are being tightened up, and that is why initiatives have been taken which will hopefully enable us to send them out. And this is happening both if you like, with national pressure, but it is also happening through efforts in EU cooperation. That is the path we must take and, of course, those who pose a security threat must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162951	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222162955	Once upon a time someone was called the substitute from hell, then there was the substitute from heaven, and now we have the substitute from the West. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we think it is very good that the Minister for Finance has taken maternity leave. We think that the criticism that has been made of him is completely wrong and we are quite confident about the functioning of the Finance Minister. Thank you for your cooperation, and thank you for your kind words. I would then like to ask you one of the things on which we unfortunately still disagree, and it is Danish-international couples, in other words Danish citizens, who have found their spouse outside the borders of the European Union and who still have a lot, very difficult to live in their own country. It is about 600 people every year. According to the Ministry of Finance, they constitute a financial contribution. The crime rate for them is lower than for ethnic Danes. We're having a hard time seeing the problem. We understand that some foreigners are a problem, but this group is not. When can we have a proper debate on this and change it? Because it could be people who could make a contribution to the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163109	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163110	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. We in the Social Democratic Party feel that this debate is a very good proof that we are in the middle. We used to be accused of being too relaxed, and now we're being accused of being too tight. We think that our foreign policy is in the right place. The Radical Left also knows where Social Democracy stands and we are discussing things, but my view is that the more and the closer we cooperate, the clearer the views will be. We cannot disagree on the need to take care of those who are here, but there are also limits, and these are the ones that are determined by the political differences in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163200	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163202	We have understood this after many robust discussions. We just find it difficult to understand exactly as far as the group called the spouses of Danish citizens is concerned, where all figures show that they make a contribution and that it is people who are not the major problems of purely crime. Why couldn't you take that group out and say that's reasonable? It's common sense, and it's also fair, by the way, that it's our own citizens that they can have a chance to live in their own homeland? And then we can make some demands when they are
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163235	So, I think it is important to emphasise that there are many different considerations in foreign policy. The Social Democratic Party believes that from the point of view of both the sustainability and cohesion of Danish society we have found the right place in foreign policy and that we have also found the right place in relation to the Danish labour market. But, of course, the views are noted and we stand where we stand. We believe that there is the right balance in terms of having both a strict foreign policy, but of course also a foreign policy which is of course not a silly one and which can help to ensure that those who are here legally are, of course, also here in proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163326	Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163329	It is a good financial law that we have made together, just as we have made a number of other very good agreements, including, of course, the justice reform on previous withdrawal. We quietly turn Denmark in a more social and green direction. Imagine that now you can reconnect reforms with something good that gives people something, instead of something where you cut down and degrade. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: when will the government lead a recovery plan for security on daily allowances? I do not expect the Minister of Finance to say that it should be right here and now that we are completely correcting the daily allowance, but can one imagine a social democratic government going to the next elections without having a plan for how to achieve balance, a slightly better balance, between pay and unemployment benefit? There could at least be a plan for that, where you could start up quietly. Is there one on the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163430	What we, as a government, focus on is the recovery of the Danish economy. This is a huge task, and with the setback we have experienced in the growth of 2020, despite the fact that we have together taken historic initiatives, with a very, very great challenge. We must continue to focus on it, and that is the most important thing. The most important thing is that we ensure that Denmark, Danish companies and Danish employees get through the crisis safely. That is the way in which people end up in unemployment and on unemployment benefits. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163515	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163516	Yes, yes, all respect for the recovery of the Danish economy, which we are also concerned with in the SF. But we are also concerned about the recovery of the employees' family economy, and there are great things at stake here. In addition to the family economy, there is also this main pillar of the labour market, and I would say that it is quite irresponsible if we do not have a plan here to correct the situation so that we can maintain our dynamic and flexible labour market. My question in this round, however, must be straight on: when will we get something done about the totally old-fashioned, old-Nordic, unreasonable, anti-social partner dependency for, among others. early retirementists?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163555	Well, we have focused on the recovery of the Danish economy. We have focused on security around the families' own economy, their security, their jobs and their everyday lives, and we in the government think this is the right focus now. We believe that this is the focus to ensure that families do not end up in the unhappy situation in which you can end up, if you hit unemployment or unemployment, and you risk ending up in either long-term unemployment or some other form of unemployment. So the focus is on ensuring jobs, growth and prosperity for Denmark, so that we get through this crisis as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163641	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163644	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for having also been able to conclude a good financial agreement this year. It has to be said that this really is a different way of pursuing a crisis policy than that used in the past. We invest our way out of the crisis instead of saving our lives. I must also admit that, when I follow the debate today, I am actually seriously concerned about both how the economic crisis had been tackled, but also how the Corona crisis would have been tackled if there had been another majority if it had not been the case that a new majority had come to power in June 2019. So it actually makes me happy and extra happy when I see what kind of finance law there is. But I also have to say that the way we increase equality in the financial law agreements that have been made is, of course, primarily to improve welfare. Other measures that have been made do not move much. That is to say, when we have a government that actually wants to do something about inequality and not just do something about it, then we have to look at two things: firstly, the providers. We're talking here, for example. to stop the reduction of the daily allowance or to abolish mutual dependants, for example: for early retirement workers. Secondly, we also need to look at the fact that we need to roll back some of the many tax rebates that have been given to the richest. Because if we do not look at support and tax, we will talk about it; in fact, we will not get anything done about inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163803	Thank you. I think, in all modesty, it has to be said that when you look at the financial law we have made, and Mr. Rune Lund is also a finance law, which means that we will have a much stronger Denmark, where we invest in the fact that the children and young people who might have been affected by savings in the past when they were going across the threshold of having to make choices about education will now have better opportunities for it. It's just an example. When you look at what we are doing in social policy and employment policy, and the initiatives we have taken, both to keep our hands under the Danish economy as a result of the crisis, but also when we look into the future, then the initiatives that make Denmark more coherent and stronger and are, of course, a Denmark that offers more opportunities to everyone, and that is what equality is all about. It is that we must have a welfare society that offers more opportunities and especially more opportunities to those who may not have been born with them and have not had them from the beginning of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163909	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163910	That is right, and that is also why it is a very good financial law, but if we want to combat economic inequality, we need to look at how we can roll back tax rebates that have been given to the richest. We need to restore the social safety net. That is where we can really touch on economic inequality. What I am a little worried about is that the government on the two very important parameters has no particular ambition and that, in general terms, it is only intended to carry on what the blues landed on and which was taken over in June 2019. The thing is, then, that at some point you have to expect some blue parties to come back to power, and then they can increase the inequality even more, and then we end up at an even lower level, and if the ambition of the Social Democrats is simply that it is the new lower level, we will not get anywhere. We're gonna have to roll back.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163956	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222163958	It is clear that when we invest and have turned priorities as strongly as we do, for example. in the field of education, when we invest so much in both active labour market policy and active employment policy and social policy, it obviously has a here and now concern, but it also has a long-term concern. It is basically about ensuring that those who do not have the opportunities with which the average of us in here has grown up have better opportunities, and that is what this is basically about. Therefore, what we have focused so strongly on is ensuring that the most vulnerable groups in our society, those in the vulnerable residential areas, those we know who sit back on the chair in the classroom and find it hard to say that they get help with their lessons, get better help in the future. That's basically what this Finance Act is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164056	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164059	Frankly, I am concerned about the economic policy pursued by the government. We have a government which, according to its own inventory, which I have here, has reduced Denmark's long-term gross domestic product by 14 billion. kr. and has reduced employment by 11 000 people. Most recently, the government has continued its economic disaster course by closing down an entire mink business which affects 6 000 people's employment and which will cost just in direct compensation somewhere around 13-14 billion. kr., which was what was on the table when we last sat and negotiated, plus a lasting loss of export earnings, which is also in the billions class. The government has lifted the tax 31 times, and most recently it has made a bill of finance here, where there is not a single saving. There is not a post on the Finance Act where the government thinks it could spend less money. I think it is a lack of restraint and too reckless dealings with taxpayers' money that the government has no post whatsoever where it thinks that it could spend less money here. Can the Minister for Finance really not think of something that should have been saved in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164214	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164215	Now I am hampered by the fact that I have been standing here quite a few times in the past as rapporteur for the budget. Some of the things we were always presented with when we came over to, for example, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen was the sixth, seventh, eighth edition, or how far we got up, of the State Procurement Program. If you see this Finance Act, you will find, for example, the same kind of efficiency. If you look at the post consultants, the government is, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, already well in the process of finding efficiency, so it is a waste to claim what is claimed. This government has taken a firm stand on the historic economic crisis that Denmark is facing. Together with the Conservative People's Party and the broad majority in the Folketing, we have made available a staggering billions of dollars in increased liquidity for Danish companies. We have pursued an historically expansive fiscal policy which now and here works, but which also helps to ensure that the future we are entering will be a future in which we can develop and create new, for example, green jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164325	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164326	It is a bit incredible that when the government is being criticized for spending too much money and simply has no restraint on just using away without making sure in any way that the money is being spent properly, the government's answer is that we have a historically lax fiscal policy. Yeah, that's exactly what the problem is. The problem is, you just use it loose. Even if you think it is a really good idea to spend money loose because you believe that in a time of crisis some money should be pumped out. There may well be a rationale in that you still have an obligation to ensure that the money is spent effectively. That is where I think it is sloppy to draw up a financial agreement where there are no savings; there are some austerity programmes that were already in progress, but a financial agreement has simply been drawn up without savings. Not one item out of the $1,100 and some billion, it seems that less money could be spent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164421	There are, for example, the efficiency improvements that I talked about before. But I have to say that I share Mr. Rune Lund's amazement to hear what you hear from the Conservatives here. So, has it completely passed the Conservatives that Denmark, together with the rest of the world, is in a historic economic crisis, a historic economic setback, where our export companies are hard pressed because the world market is shut down around them, where our largest export markets are hard hit and where Danish society is marked by thousands of jobs lost? Should we then have chosen the crisis medicine that we saw during the financial crisis, where, when it was necessary to tighten up, if you like, it was the benefit recipients and early-retirement workers who paid together with great savings from the public and the community? The answer is no. And that is the point: crisis policy is a political choice and that is why we have chosen a different path.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164524	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164527	It's a well-known fact that the government is introducing a pension into Arne with this Finance Act so that he doesn't have to go on early retirement, but instead can get something even better. As a result, there are 10,000 fewer people working in Denmark. Arnepension makes Denmark 13 billion in isolation. kr. poorer. Then we understand that there is such a dispute between the Radicals and the Government, where the Radicals constantly have to press the government to make counter-measures that make Denmark correspondingly richer, so that when the government is finished sitting in this parliamentary term, Denmark has not become poorer, but has kept the status quo. Is it really the case that the government does not have the social mind, it is the handing over of a richer Denmark after the parliamentary term, and that this is something that the Radicals need to push for? Does the government have no ambition at all about it itself, that is, that it should be a richer Denmark, or at least not a poorer Denmark, when you have finished this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164626	Of course we do. But we don't believe that the medicine that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is the spokesman for using, is the right one. We've got another way. We have a social democratic path for which we find a majority in favour, together with our friends on the parliamentary basis, primarily, which helps to ensure that, despite the crisis, we can invest in our welfare, in our education and which can help to ensure that the jobs that we can see appear on the horizon are jobs where we strengthen Danish companies' competitive opportunities in the global market, for example. This is the socialist path. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen's path is a path that I sense a little is the one we saw during the financial crisis, for example, and it is a path that we have left and which I never hope will see the light of the world again as a response to a major economic crisis, because it set itself in permanent declines for ordinary employees and we will not be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164727	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164728	When I was a child, Denmark's Radio had such a broadcast with hidden camera. There was such a man who spoke to people, and he spoke completely black. Nobody understood what he was saying, but it sounded like he was actually talking, but people simply couldn't understand what he was saying. It might as well have been the acting Finance Minister who had that role, because he's really good at the whole thing about just talking around and talking black. The question was: when you now pull 10,000 out of employment and make Denmark poorer, is it the job of the Radical Left to ensure that the government takes counter-measures, or does the government itself want to take counter-measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164804	The government does not make Denmark poorer. We are organising a policy that means that Denmark will get stronger and fairer through the crisis. The balances that need to be in our economy have been decided jointly on how to deal with them, and we will deal with them. But we are not going to deal with them in the way Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wants them to be handled at. That is where the difference is in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164828	Thank you very much. Now the Minister did not mention LA or the alternative in his otherwise very meticulous speech of thanks, where he also succeeded in thanking New Citizens. I do not know whether it is forgetting or arrogance, but I would like to thank you for the good cooperation on the Finance Act, which the alternative is also part of. My question is about spouse dependency: does the temporary finance minister also think that it is a little too bad that we have not managed to put an end to these spouse-dependent schemes? I mentioned in my speech that the lowest incomes are taxed up to five times. Does the temporary finance minister think that is fair and should we not see if we can get rid of those arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222164913	I thanked the parliamentary basis and, of course, the alternative is also a central part of that. Thank you very much for your massive efforts for the green transition and the green agenda. In all modesty, the 2030 target we are now working with is something that, not least, the alternative has helped to push for, if you like, a main engine in the green transformation of Denmark in the future. So thank you so much for that effort too. In many ways this will not only be a crucial but also a crucial transformation for our society. When it comes to spouse dependency, it is true that this is also something we have discussed here, where I have worn my second hat as tax minister. We do not look at it exactly the same way, and I think that has also emerged from the many questions that we have had about it in due course. If there is a need for clarity, and if there are individual cases where someone might have got into a mess, we would be happy to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165010	Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165012	Thank you. Now, after all, the temporary finance minister has mentioned the so-called green tax agreement, in relation to the number of jobs it provides. But we also want it to be green, and there we could have made CO2 It was not, but we could have started with a meat tax or, for example, we could have done that. a flight tax when it was the case that the Minister of Finance thought that it was not possible to figure this out in any other way. Why didn't they do that? And let me say to that that the Minister of Finance should not answer that it was because it would be bad for those with the lowest incomes, because a solid social compensation could have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165055	Thank you. Well we have chosen a line in the green transition and the green reboot of Denmark, which means that we must bring everyone with us. I think it is very important and the government believes it is very important that we ensure that we retain the cohesion that is in many ways famous outside the country's borders for how we also deal with crises in the Danish community and the impact of international crises in Danish society. And you have to be very careful in this discussion not to upset it. That is why we have chosen a very, very ambitious green conversion, which helps to ensure that the Denmark that comes out on the other side of the crisis is greener, and that there are also plenty of new green jobs for the Danes there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165147	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165150	Thank you. Earlier in the debate, the Minister for Finance replied very frankly that there is a huge task ahead of us in order to restore the Danish economy. This was even emphasised, so there was no doubt about it at all. We can see that too. The truth is that there is a great need for it. Earlier in the debate, also when the Socialist rapporteur was on, it was established that a financial law is now being implemented that runs Denmark 12 billion. kr. Backwards. In the meantime, it has risen to 14 billion. kr., we can see. It is quite clear now that there is a deficit, that there is debt, that there is an increase in taxes. It runs short and well backwards. Then it is clear that there was corona, and yes, it affected, but in addition to it you drive backwards. So there really is a need for some growth initiatives to be prepared now. And that should, in fact, be the most important question. So what are the growth initiatives that the government has on the table and wants to talk about now? Because we're counting on a vaccine now, so we can get past corona in a good way, hopefully. Then there will have to be some growth initiatives on the table. What does the government have plans to get Denmark back into gear now in the new year?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165308	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165310	For example, a Finance Act that helps secure 55,000 jobs in 2021. Well, that's a joke anyway. And you have to say that when you look at the uncertainty that Mr. Erling Bonnesen's party helped create when it came to dealing with the financial crisis, so it's just another way. I mean, crisis policy is a political choice. I was standing here when the then government gave its answer to the management of the financial crisis. And now I stand as temporary finance minister and have to answer what the Social Democratic Party will do. It's a political choice. We have chosen a route where, by 2020, we have kept our hands under almost 80 000 jobs, and we have ensured that, with the financial law we are making, we create the basis for 55 000 jobs and, in the case of the Finance Act alone, 14 000 new jobs. It is markedly different from what we saw under the then bourgeois government. It just helps to emphasise that there are differences of opinion in politics. If you are in crisis, crisis policy is a political choice. We have chosen a different path from what we did when we were responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165425	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165426	Well, almost the whole parliament has been behind relief packages, etc., and good for that, that's fine. Of course, we must hold our hands under Denmark in times of crisis. But what we are talking about now is that we need to focus on how to move forward with further growth, because a number of the other countries are not standing still either, so if you just hold still, the others are driving by in the raceway, and that is what we need to focus on now. I understand that the Minister for Finance is almost proud that we are now running at 12 billion. kr. in deficits with indebtedness and increased taxes. How do we get away from it and get some growth back? There's no focus on that. So it is quite true that there are two ways in Danish politics that there is a deficit path, and then there is our way, namely the profit path.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165516	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165517	There is also the way to take responsibility for the future and, for example, to launch a green tax reform, which for the next five years will provide just over 5 billion. kr. It is therefore a green transition in which we motivate companies to invest in green production, so that companies are ready for the main engine that we have agreed to a uniform CO2 It is the future to make the choices, and that is what we have done here rather than go the way that we chose, the last time we faced a huge crisis, which was a way of saving and reducing the safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165610	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165613	Thank you. I would like to return to another point, although it is also an exciting debate that is currently under way. When you look at the Finance Act, there is a point called other initiatives, and that is where we have always had many points there we had frigate Jutland and Dybbøl Mølle and all the good things you could put in there. But some things have also been put in here now, and I would just like to ask the acting Finance Minister who wanted to do so. It is the case that electoral buses are now coming as places of correspondence, and it is very clear that it is some buses that have to drive into the ghetto areas in connection with municipal and parliamentary elections, and then you can get people to vote and there can be a greater turnout in a ghetto area, for example. It might be appropriate, after Friday prayer, to be able to leave there with an electoral bus. Who is it that has made such a proposal that particular attention should be paid to increasing the turnout in the ghetto regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165709	Hopefully this is not just a wish of those who have helped to conclude agreements on the Finance Act. Hopefully, the whole Parliament wants us to ensure that the vote is up and that we ensure it for all those who, for various reasons, may not see themselves in the society of which they are, moreover, a part, and who may not think that it is useful to participate. We are known in Denmark for our historically high voting rate. I think it would be great if we ensured that even more people came along and helped to make a decision as to who would represent them, whether in the municipal council, in a regional council or in the thing that we are in now. I mean, I think it's a little weird if you have to limit these people who may not even think they can see themselves in the electoral act on which we live. And that is why I think it is quite natural and great for a democracy like the Danish one that we have the opportunity to launch such a project and thus increase the voting rate, as I have said. That is the aim of it. And I find it hard to understand why you can have something against it, because I thought that's what it was all about in here, that is, that we should have even more to vote for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165822	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165823	But what lies in it is that now there is a very special service for non-ethnic Danes. Now they must have a very special service in order to be able to participate in the elections. At the last election you could clearly see where it was that among other things. The Radical Left was given their votes; you could clearly see what happened in relation to Friday prayers and other things: to vote for the right people, was the chance to stay in Denmark and have the immigration policy relaxed better, which is also absolutely true. We have seen that the social democracy has relaxed foreign policy, although it was said the opposite before the elections, at the request of the Radicals. So does the acting Finance Minister really think that it is a special service that should be given to non-ethnic Danes in order for them to be able to participate in the election procedure? I guess that's true of everyone. Should we not then go in and say to the municipalities that they must not close polling stations so that the polling stations will be too far away? Making electoral buses as places of correspondence, especially in these residential areas, must be a challenge, that is, that group will be particularly well placed to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165918	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222165920	Well, I have to say that I do not understand that the Danish People's Party in particular has so much against it. If the Danish People's Party wants to take a little interest in their own voices, then they will see that in some of the vulnerable residential areas they also get votes. So it's something weird to suspect people to plan the election procedure in that way. This is basically about ensuring that where we are, where we live, where we have the opportunity to be active, there is, of course, also an opportunity to speak out, and there is this initiative that will help with it. And I am quite convinced that this will be welcomed very much, and I hope that many people will take part in it so that we can raise the vote even more. This is the way to ensure that we have an even more sustainable democracy and thus also the place for the decisions we take in this Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170012	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170017	A great deal of wealth has been lost because of the corona crisis. Lifestations have been destroyed and jobs have been lost. In this light, it is incomprehensible and irresponsible that the government has pursued an economic policy which has made us another 14 billion. kr. poorer, as the Minister for Finance himself has indicated in a reply to the Committee on Finance. Nevertheless, the Finance Minister from the platform today says that the government has done everything it can to safeguard the Danes' economy and their jobs. Both of them simply cannot be right. So I would like to hear the Minister, which of the statements is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170101	Yes, if the questioner wanted to see a little in the Finance Act agreement, and see a little in the Economic Statement, which was published here on Friday, the questioner would see that there are two ways in Danish politics, as the author's own rapporteur also pointed out. There is a road where we support and rebuild, and a road where it is cut down. That's basically it. The first path is the one for which this government is exponent, and it has the clear meaning that with this financial agreement and with what was done in 2020, we have both held our hands under approx. 80,000 jobs have helped create the basis for 55,000 new jobs in 2021, and with the Finance Act in isolation, the foundation for 14,000 jobs is created. I mean, it's a crisis policy, and it's also a political choice. I'm happy to admit that, and that's the choice we've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170201	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170204	Yes, it is still very difficult for me to understand how to make Denmark 14 billion. kr. poorer people support our economy and our jobs. But there are different understandings of economics. But on the other hand, I would like to ask: how does the Minister think it is to do everything possible to ensure that the Danes' economy and their jobs are raised or to propose raising the tax by more than 30 billion? kr.? And if it is also the recipe for security for the Danes' economy and their jobs to raise the tax 30 times, will the Minister also raise the tax 30 times in the next year and a half?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170240	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170242	In the Finance Act we are discussing today, there are major tax cuts for Danish business. There is also an extended deduction for expenditure on research and development activities. There's a housing job scheme. There are, if you will, in the green transport agreement that we have made, decisions on a considerably more relaxed phasing-in of the increase in registration tax in relation to green transport. As I said, there is a green tax reform, which overall over the next five years means 5.3 billion. kr. further to depreciation possibilities and tax reductions. So, I think you have to be careful with the campaign theory, which has clearly been written down in the Left Secretariat. In any case, we must remember that one of the major tax changes is one of our own, namely the increase in cigarette taxes. And I understand that one is opposed to the government's implementation of that which we wanted it to be cut in two; I understand that the Left wanted it to happen once. So I think we should try again what has been said so far, including on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170351	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170355	After all, we have achieved a great deal this year, and thank you for your cooperation on this. Brøndby is also almost number one in the superliga, and I am pleased to know that the substitute from the West Region, the acting Finance Minister. And especially thank you for the praise to the Radical Left for our work in securing investment in education. But it was a bit uphill, we should admit, because when the autumn started, the government had come up with a financial bill with zero extra crowns for education and a police deal of minus 550 million. kr. for education, i.e. a big minus from the start. In the end, education was not spared in the police agreement and with a plus of 1.7 billion. kr. in the Finance Act for Education. We are very pleased about that, and we are pleased to have contributed to it. We would therefore like to know whether the government can guarantee that next year the government will not propose new educational savings and that the government will not propose savings for the future next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170454	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170456	The government, together with its parliamentary basis, Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative, has ensured, if you like, a 180-degree turn in investment in education, and of course we intend to continue to do so. The fact that priorities must then be set, including in the field of education, is clear. I do not think that is far from the Radicals either. But the direction is set, and why is it? That is the basic principle, and we have confirmed this in the agreement we have made here this autumn, that is, the financial agreement, and the other agreements, because, as a small country with a very open economy, we mainly live on one thing, and that is education, education and training. That is why we are investing in it, and that is why we have made a very significant increase in education. It is, after all, a boost which continues and which helps to cement the change in investment in our education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170600	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170602	We live precisely on education, education and training, and that is why it was foolish when the government proposed responses to training of 550 million. kr. as a result of the presentation to the police agreement and had not allocated a single penny extra to it. In 1813 Denmark went state bankruptcy, and there said the Crown Prince then, that because one went state bankruptcy, one should of course not save on education: we are poor, but we do not have to be stupid. That is why I would like to hear whether the government can say now: next year and in future there will be no further savings in education. Can the acting Minister of Finance, the substitute from the West Region, guarantee that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170645	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170647	I'm kidding. The direction is set. We mean seriously when we talk about investment in education, and we do that because it is best for Denmark. We live on it, our children and young people live on it, and we live on it in the labour market. That is why, in the Finance Act we have just adopted, we also agree that there must be pools for the conversion of whether you like, the workforce, the employees, so that, although they may be so unfortunate that they and their families are affected by unemployment, there must be additional opportunities for training. So the direction is set, and there should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170730	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170734	Thank you. The acting Finance Minister said in his speech that the government would like to put the children first. The Minister also said that it was really important to create security in the families. I think the government is doing exactly the opposite. Because it can be said that in terms of security it creates insecurity in the Danes with the increased debt that is being created. And then I would say that one of the things that puzzles me is that, at the same time, the government discriminates against the children who go in private care. What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170817	So, I have to say that if the fact that you have a crisis policy that makes you invest in getting Denmark coherent out of the crisis should create insecurity, while at the same time holding hands under almost 80 000 jobs and creating the basis for 55 000 new jobs in the coming year and just having made a financial agreement that ensures 14 000 to 15 000 in itself, then I really find it hard to see. I am very excited when we will be presenting the alternative to the crisis policy that the government is pursuing and what it is then if that is the point of criticism. That's why I'm looking forward to hearing about it. And you may find the alternative when you have found out which way it is and which version of your tax freeze you are going to go up in the Left right now. Hopefully we will get it, I do not know, but it will certainly provide greater clarity as to the ways in which economic policy is conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170909	Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170911	Can the Minister not just confirm that it is true that there is discrimination against the children and that this also creates some kind of uncertainty in the families that go into a private care system and that in this way the economy will be undermined in private care systems and that this will also create an insecurity for families?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170934-2	I mean, this government does not create insecurity for the families of children, on the contrary. We invest in the future of children, and this means that those children who may have and come from difficult circumstances will have the prospect of a better future, for example, with a great many of the initiatives that are in this Finance Act. And we are actually very proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222170957	Thank you, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171001	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to stay with the kids a little bit. After all, it is almost one year ago that the Prime Minister gave his New Year's speech, when the Prime Minister launched the idea that more children should now be brought under compulsion, more children should be forcibly adopted, and in general addressed themselves as the child's minister. And now almost a year has passed and nothing has actually happened. And it is not the case that no other agreements have been made. As the Minister himself said, there has been an agreement for Arne, and a tax agreement has been made, a climate agreement has been drawn up, a political settlement has been made. So I would really like to hear: how does this relate to wanting to be the minister of the children, being on the side of the children, when nothing has actually happened for a whole year? No action has been taken, nothing has been taken in relation to the vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171108	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171109	Well, that's not true. Well, it's not true that this government has done nothing for children and young people. And it's not true at all that this government has done nothing for vulnerable children and young people. I mean, we're making a Finance Act, where we're, for example. has brought forward the possibility of phasing in minimum standards. So that's not true. And again: I think it would be incredibly interesting to hear what the Conservatives imagine to be the alternative. So the Conservative rapporteur stands up here and says that this is a completely wrong way for this government in its crisis policy, and one must understand that it is absolutely wrong in the budget law. And then you stand up here asking from the Conservative People's Party and blaming the government for doing nothing at all. Well, what do you want? Can we not soon get a direction from the Conservative People's Party and find out what your answer is? The government has again invested as last year in a better future for children, better care for children, better education opportunities for children and young people. So it's not true that nothing happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171219	Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171221	Thank you. Now I asked about the vulnerable children and young people in relation to the Prime Minister's New Year's speech. But now the Minister himself has mentioned this about minimum standards. There I can see that it was also the case that free nursery schools, free day-off services, private day-offerings were not included in the minimum standard money. I also note that, in relation to extra money for public schools, private and free schools did not receive any money either. I also note that the government would like to close private day care institutions. The government would also like to dismantle places of residence, which are doing a professional, quality and educationally good job for the children who are there and who are happy to be there. So I'd really like to hear what it's like for the government to...
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171319	It is so good to start with the question, otherwise we will be exceeding speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171326	Okay, yeah. Thank you. But then I would like to ask: how is it that the government says that they are on the children's side when they then discriminate against children in Denmark in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171336	Well the government ensures a better future for Danish children and young people with the investments we have made, both in terms of strengthening care provision, educational provision and leisure provision, and it is both during this crisis and after the crisis we are facing. That is why the Conservative People's Party must decide: do we spend too much money or too little money? That's just what I don't understand. I mean, you can't stand up for yourself, like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov said before that this is quite wrong and that you spend far too much money and you don't save anywhere, as he said, and now accuse us of spending too little money. Maybe it's me, but I can't see the head and tail. Perhaps we should try to tighten up the argument within the Conservative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171423	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171426	Thank you. Today, in response to the Committee on Finance and Finance, the acting Finance Minister has admitted that the isolated effect of the policy pursued by the government, not all sorts of economic conditions, but what the acting Finance Minister actually has in mind, is that Danish society will be 14 billion. kr. poorer, and the income group most severely affected are those with the lowest incomes. Then the Minister for Finance could not just briefly explain here today why the Minister for Finance believes there is a need for a policy that overall makes Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171512	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171514	Thank you for that, President. This government is pursuing a policy that means that Denmark will come more fairly through the crisis. We are completely on the goal that, contrary to the crisis policy implemented under the previous government, where it was especially those who needed the most help, for example to resign from a very hard, physically debilitating job that paid the bill, we are following a different line. We are fully committed to this, and I think that what has been great today is that the broad agreement made in the Folketing between Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten is an agreement that now means a change in relation to it. We are entirely in favour of this. And, of course, we have a goal to ensure a green and fairer reboot of Denmark, and that is what we are doing with the other initiatives that we have taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171621	Thank you. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171623	That was a whole lot of words that took a long time to say, but which unfortunately did not really answer the question. What is so central in this discussion is that the policy pursued by the government makes Denmark poorer, and when Denmark becomes poorer, there is less money for welfare, there is less money for green conversion, and there is less money for better infrastructure. That is why I would just like to ask again: why does the Minister think it is right to pursue a policy that makes the whole of Danish society poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171701	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171702	We believe it is right that those who have worn and dragged the longest on the Danish labour market should have the opportunity to retire earlier than they would otherwise have expected. The Left disagrees with that. It has some costs and that is what, among other things, is going to happen. is in the answer that I have sent to the Finance Committee and we take it with our forehead, and then we solve it in other contexts. That is why this is a government which has both chosen a different welfare policy from that of the previous government, which has chosen a different policy towards those groups in the labour market which have worn and dragged the longest and which have also opted for a different crisis policy and which basically believes that we are investing through a crisis so that we get, if the questioner wants, more coherent and stronger out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171757	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171801	I have to come back to something I heard the Minister say at the beginning of his reply round. Here he said that the exit center thing was about to get under control. I think we are a lot of people who would like to hear a little more about that, because where is it going? Last year there were 40,000 violations of reporting obligations and violations of the general rules applicable at Kærshovedgård. I note that ten years ago, a Somali, the man who tried to kill Kurt Westergaard with an axe is today strutting freely in society. Is this really an expression of the fact that the exit centre is under control, Minister? Well, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party had an agreement with the previous government about Lindholm, as it should be as uncomfortable as possible. We would actually have liked to point out a few more uncomfortable places, but we could not get through with that. It scraped this government to please its radical and socialist foundation. So what happens now? Is it really to have things under control that murderers and other pack can thus wander around in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171906	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171908	The Danish People's Party doesn't have to be so nervous. The government has said we're going to look at this. And we are currently working on a solution to how, for example, as I also indicated, we are getting firmer hands on those who are a problem and who have been a problem under the previous government. It includes several different elements, and that's what we're looking at. I do not think there are two views that these people do not belong in Denmark and that they therefore have to leave the country. We are working hard on that. And until they can do so, we sit and look at how, if you like, you can tighten up the regime around them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171952	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222171954	I think what really makes me most nervous is when a Socialist says to me: you don't have to be nervous. When can we expect this to fall into place? Now it is a year and a half since the government changed that the majority of the people changed, when will there be a good agreement? Is that something we'll have tomorrow? We have heard that from other Social Democrats. Can we have a time perspective on when these people will get to such an inconvenient place that they prefer to go home to Somalia, Afghanistan, and where they belong, instead of wandering freely in Denmark with reporting to the police and, by the way, confiscating over 50 policemen who could be out solving crimes and other good things?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172034	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172035	Well, the Danish People's Party doesn't have to be nervous. If the Danish People's Party would like to discuss this here, we will be happy to discuss it. This is an important matter. We just have to say that even under the previous government it was not in control either. That's what's real. That is why it is a joint task. And whatever government is in place, there are key challenges here that need to be addressed. For example, it is a question of ensuring that the countries that will then have to take their own citizens back actually do so. With the knowledge that I have of the area from having sat with it in the past, I know that it is a challenge that goes across governments, and if the Danish People's Party is interested in finding a way and has a kick in on how we can do it, we will of course listen to it. But we are looking at how to tighten up the regime that is here. There aren't two views that these types don't belong in the country. They need to get out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172130	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and that's the last question we'll get to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172136	Thank you. After all, it is amazing to hear the acting Finance Minister harcelere about how to get a handle on the Danish economy after the financial crisis and create a room for manoeuvre that the acting Finance Minister now has the pleasure of using. If it were so terrible, the Social Democratic Party could just have changed the changes, but it was the current Prime Minister who was Minister for Employment when the changes were subsequently adopted just for the sake of storytelling. I understand from the Socialist Financial Rapporteur that I should understand the answer to Question 66 in its entirety, and I would just like to know who is right: is it the oral Finance Minister who says that there is growth in government policy, or is it the written Finance Minister who says that of permanent measures that affect growth in Denmark, the government's policy has led Denmark to be 12 billion. kr. poorer? Who is entitled to receive a letter from the Minister of Finance or from the Minister of Finance in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172242	After quite a lot of hours of debate, unfortunately, I am unable to explain Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen how he understands the answer he has read himself. He must be the target of that. What I can measure up to is the government's policy, on which we have come up against the option of guaranteeing employees who have worn out and dragged the longest on the Danish labour market, an opportunity to step out of the labour market while at the same time ensuring a crisis policy that helps to keep their hands on Danish employees and Danish companies and that has a long-term effect, as long as the alternative would have set itself as even worse and longer-term setbacks in relation to unemployment, the economy and the opportunities for wage earners who, now with the crisis policy we have been pursuing, have been guaranteed their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172347	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172349	In relation to the temporary policy, I would like to say that we both, fortunately, have large shares in it jointly and I hardly believe that there is the element of stimuli that the Left has not been a part of, because we agree that it is a question of securing as many as possible in this serious situation. However, it is only clear that the long-term impact of government policy makes the country poorer. The Minister can't outrun that. There is one question that is just pressing on here at the very end, so it's fine to be allowed to end with it. The Socialist rapporteur said that there was no money for higher unemployment benefits, but I do not think that was entirely consistent with what was answered to SF's questions earlier, so I just want to hear: what does the government think about the level of unemployment benefits that should be paid or should it be maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172432	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172433	I am very excited to hear what the Left will think at some point. The government handles one of Denmark's biggest financial setbacks. We are pursuing an historically active financial policy with, moreover, a very, very active parliamentary basis. We are helping to hold hands under 80 000 jobs this year, creating the basis for 55 000 jobs next year and creating in isolation with the Finance Act, which corresponds to 14 000 jobs. That's what we're focusing on now. It's security. It is basically about ensuring that people do not end up in a situation where they need a daily allowance. The benefit situation can be discussed extensively in the Left. We disagree with what we chose to do when we tried to deal with a crisis policy ourselves. We have chosen a different path, and we have done so because, as I said, crisis policy is a political choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222172534	Thank you. No one else has the opportunity to speak. The debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. But before we start the vote, we will take a short break. The sitting is postponed until 5:40 p.m. This will allow us to clean the screens and prepare to log in to the special voting places. I would therefore ask everyone to leave the Chamber, as usual, in good order. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201222174011	The sitting is resumed. I just have a little guideline for the rest of this one. It is the case that we are now voting on amendments to the draft budget. As I have said, we have to vote 52 times. Then there will be an hour's break... of course it fits very well with dinner... there must also be time for the Finance Committee to make sure that what we are voting on now is also correct. When we then meet again after that hour, we have two question debates where we have to vote on proposals for adoption, and then there are seven third readings. That's for having such a time frame in your head. I'm gonna have to ask the Secretaries if they're in position. They are. We shall then proceed to the vote on amendments. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-13 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14-39 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Industry. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 40-69 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 70-94 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 95-110 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 111-114 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 115 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 713 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 607, 117-127, 608, 129-132, 609, 610 and 135-137 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 138-165 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 166 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 10 (KF, NB and LA), abstention 32 (V and DF). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 167-185 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 714 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 34 votes (V, DF and NB), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 186-188 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 189-215 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 216 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 8 (KF and LA), abstained 0. That's the roof. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 217-220 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 221-225, 611, 227-233, 612, 235, 613, 614, 238-244, 615, 246, 247, 616, 249-269, 617, 618 and 272-293 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 715 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 294-310 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 311-327 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 716 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 328-354, 619 and 356-362 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Children and Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 363-366 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 717 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 34 votes (V, DF and NB), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 367 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 368 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 10 votes (KF, NB and LA), abstentions 24 (V). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 369-372 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 718 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 votes (V, DF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 373-387 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 388 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 8 (KF and LA), abstained 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 389 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 8 (KF and LA), abstained 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 390-412 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 719 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 40 (V, DF, KF and LA), against voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, NB, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 413 and 414 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 415 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 10 (KF, NB and LA), abstained 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 416-432 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 433-440 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 720 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 32 (V and DF), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 441-460 by the Minister for Finance? They have been adopted. 721 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 18 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against 76 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 461 and 462 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 722 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 40 (V, DF, KF and NB), against voting 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 463-465 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 466 and 467 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 723 of V, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V and DF), against 63 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 468 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 469 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (KF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 470 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 724 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 82 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 471-482 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 483 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (KF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 484-496 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 497-501 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 502 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Mr. Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 8 (KF and NB), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 503-510, 620, 621, 511, 512 and 622 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 513 of the Minister for Finance, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 85 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB and ALT), against 2 (LA), abstentions 8 (KF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 514-516 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 517-521, 623 and 522-538 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 725 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (V, DF, NB, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 59 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 539 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 91 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB and ALT) voted against 2 (LA), abstained 2 (Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 540, 541, 624 and 542-546 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 726 by DF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 547 and 548 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 727 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 32 (V, KF and NB), against 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 8 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 549-557 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 728 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (V and KF), against 64 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 729 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 14 (DF and KF), against 81 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 730 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 32 (V, KF and NB), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 8 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 558 and 559 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 560 of the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 89 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and ALT), against 6 (NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 561-565 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 566 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 83 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 12 (KF, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 567 by the Minister for Finance and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 568, 569, 625, 571, 626 and 573-584 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 731 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, DF and NB), against 61 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 732 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 733 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V and DF), against 63 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 734 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 34 votes (V, DF and NB), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 735 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 736 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 737 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 33 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 738 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 739 of V and DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 740 of V and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 votes (V, DF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 6 (KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 741 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. voted 10 (DF and NB), against 55 (S, RV, SF, EL, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 30 (V and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 742 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 12 (DF, NB and LA), against 83 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 743 of DF and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V and DF), against 62 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 744 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB and LA), against 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and 1 (V) (by mistake)), abstentions 29 (V and KF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 745 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 30 (V and KF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 585 and 586 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. For section 36. Pensioners. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 587 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 627-641, 589 and 642-661 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Seventy-six per cent of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 38 (V, KF, NB, LA and 4 (DF) (by mistake)) voted against 57 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Seventy-seven of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 748 of V, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 749 of DF, and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 18 (DF, KF, NB and LA), against voting 77 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 662 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 750 of V and voting is possible. For the vote 42 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 53 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 663-679 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 751 of the RV, and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (V and KF), against 65 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, ALT, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 680-688 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 689-693, 603, 694-703, 605 and 606 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 704-709 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 710-712 by the Minister for Finance. They are adopted. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20201222180758	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. That is why we must now suspend the third reading, on the one hand, so that we can have a lunch break and, on the other hand, so that the Committee on Finance can approve it here. That is why I propose that we meet again at the last votes at 3 p.m. 19.10.
