ParlaMint-DK_20200207100008	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Denni Flydtkjær (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of an innovation pool for new communication strategies (5G pool)). Jacob Mark (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution granting children the right to urgent help from Pedagogical Psychological Counselling (PPR)). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 42 (What can the Minister say about negotiations with other countries on prison places, so that foreigners sentenced in Denmark can serve in their country of origin or in a country other than Denmark until they can be repatriated?). Henrik Dahl (LA) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA): Request no. F 43 (Will the Minister explain the conditions for the freedom of expression of youth education for students expressing their views on education policy and how the institutions' application of behaviour policies on bullying, for example, could have implications for freedom of speech for students in this respect, including whether the same freedom of expression applies to students as to employees?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100104	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100142	The debate is open and welcome to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100202	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution we are debating on a ban on child sex dolls. Child sex puppets only the word is disgusting, and I find it hard to understand how anyone can possibly get that idea to produce and sell or buy child sex dolls. These are dolls that depict children and that are produced by, for example, children. silicone for sexual purposes. The media have brought stories that children's sex dolls, for example. can be supplied with electrical connectors so that they can be heated to normal body temperature and can be produced according to special requirements e.g. relative to appearance and size. It is truly disgusting. As a society, we must send a clear signal that under no circumstances do we accept child abuse. This means, among other things, that child sex dolls should be banned, as the opposite may appear to be the acceptance of sexual abuse against children. That is why the government can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, and I shall therefore present this autumn a bill banning the possession of child sex puppets. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that, of course, we cannot accept that people who have sexual fantasies about children are at the same time dealing with children and young people, whether in their work or in their leisure time. A child pornography conviction is now apparent from the child record of the convicted person, and so it must be if, in future, after a ban, you are convicted of having a child sex doll. If a person, for example: As a teacher, private child care professional or child psychologist for children under the age of 15, the authority or association in which the person concerned teaches must obtain a child certificate. This means that the employer will be aware of the infringement before an appointment such as: teacher so that persons convicted of possession of child sex dolls cannot come directly into contact with children through their workplace, a leisure club or the like. On the other hand, it is probably not quite that easy when it comes to the part of the resolution which deals with sexological treatment. Like so much other treatment, an effective sexological course presupposes that the person concerned wishes to participate in and receive treatment, and I believe that this will be difficult to secure with forced sexological treatment, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. So, although I support the motion for a resolution, I do not expect the bill that the government is going to table in the autumn to include requirements for compulsory non-compulsory treatment. That said, of course, those people need help to deal with their thoughts so that it does not become a reality. Today it is the case that you can be sentenced to conditional prison with conditions of subjection to sexological treatment if you have committed certain types of sexual crimes. In addition, in the course of an unconditional sentence, it will be possible to participate in a sexological course if one is judged to be motivated and suitable for it. In my optics, it would be perfectly natural for you to have the same opportunity to receive treatment for your sexual thoughts if you have received a conviction for the possession of a child sex doll. So, with these reservations, I can support the motion for a resolution. But a ban on child sex dolls cannot stand alone. Shortly before Christmas, we adopted, among other things: together with the proposers, as you know, a draft law designed to prevent new abuses from being committed through enhanced supervision of convicted sex offenders. However, the government is far from finished looking at what we can do to strengthen the overall fight against sexual abuse against children and young people. Therefore, in parallel with the drafting of the bill banning child sex puppets, I would like to look at what initiatives can be taken in order to prevent child abuse as far as possible in the future. I know that the Danish People's Party supports this work. Once again, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. It is important that we politicians stand on the side of children and show that we do not tolerate activities that appear to accept child abuse. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100641	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100647	I would like to thank the Minister and the government for supporting this proposal. We are pleased that it is possible to adopt this proposal, and I also note that the Minister says that there are other things that need to be done. We have just examined a proposal from the government which I hope will be able to rectify some things, and we have also proposed various things and matters that will be on the agenda later here today. But what I just referred to concerns the treatment of paedophiles, because that is the right thing to do. Whether we ban child sex dolls or what we do, there are some who are so crazy in their morbid urge to have sex with children that there is a need for someone to do something, and it has to be society. And some of them won't go out and tell me about it, won't come out with it, but they have to at some point if we're going to get them turned away from it. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: if you do not want to do so by force, if there is a verdict, how does the Minister see that we can have some kind of treatment under the people we are risking abusing children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100800	Well, I think there are different ways to go. On the one hand, those who may be convicted may be enrolled in a sexological course during atonement. On the one hand, one can imagine creating the possibility that a conditional judgment can be given, with the condition of treatment, as we do in other areas. So there are different options to ensure treatment, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100828	Sir. Peter Skaarup? The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100829	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. Like the Government, I share the intentions behind this motion for a resolution, so I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that banning the purchase of child sex dolls does not stand in the way of more research in this area. Because there is not as much research evidence as it stands right now, but it is kind of tilting on both sides. So I would just like the government to be stressed that, of course, it will still be necessary and possible to carry out research in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100904	That is absolutely right, and there will certainly be an opportunity for it, and I think it would be appropriate for it to be done. It is true that the research that lies is not highly con clusive in relation to what is the right thing to do. When we do this today, it is also to show that we are opposed to this and that, in the interests of safety, we would rather stand on the side of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100927	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and that is how we start on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207100945	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for resubmitting this motion for a resolution, or it is not really a re-submission. Because there was also a discussion of it during the previous parliamentary term, when it was the Danish People's Party supported by the Social Democratic Party, which was in favour of this ban, and thus it actually seems today that there will be a majority for this, and I think there is every reason to rejoice about that, not because it is to a large extent the world's biggest cause, but because it means a great deal. It is the case that back at the beginning of this millennium we made legislation that prohibited making real-life cartoons showing child pornography, and that it is also illegal to make computer animations, real-life copies of children in a sexual production, children having sex with adults, and then it has been a little difficult to understand why there is a difference between making an animated cartoon and a computer animation and making a real-life doll, which in principle is exactly the same. Because when we go back and look at what was the debate then, we can see that there have been different wordings, and if at that time you had had a knowledge that there were some who might produce these dolls, market them, sell them, and they are very lively; as the Minister said, you can design them so that they can say "no, no, daddy', they can have light in their eyes, they can have body temperature, I really feel convinced that they had been included in that ban. This has not been done, which means that cartoons and computer animations are banned today, but imports of these dolls are allowed. It makes no sense to me, and that is why I am glad that we are now getting this opportunity to indicate that it must of course be banned and that, as the Minister has said, we must also bring it forward in the legislation. When you debate this, there have just been some who say that, on the one hand, you do not know whether it can have a preventive effect, that is, that there are some with paedophile desires and thoughts that, like getting the impression of something and thus not attacking a real child, or, on the other hand, whether it can really incite someone, and it is true that there is not a great deal of research in this area. There are, however, some studies, among others. from Australia, which actually shows that moving the borders can incite us to take the next step. Then you just have to say to those who have the argument that if they think it is an argument that you should then be allowed to import a doll, why should you not also be allowed to make cartoons or computer games and everything else? It is, of course, because we basically do not want a society in which to produce and display true copies of children having sex with adults must be okay, that it must be allowed to be acceptable. This does not mean that there are no adults and also young people who can have paedophile thoughts, and of course they must be helped to get the work done so that it does not develop into real abuse. That is why I welcome this opportunity to state that, of course, we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party with the few comments that the Minister also mentioned, in other words something, in that we do not have time to make a legislative proposal on this side of the summer, but in the autumn, and also in relation to the whole treatment regime. But otherwise full support from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101344	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101349	Actually, I just wanted to say thank you, sir. Jep Bruus and the Social Democrats for completely non-prejudiced to go in now and support this proposal, and then the government comes up with a bill. It is not always the case that in politics we are prepared to say no to something and then at a later stage just turn around and say: yes, now we actually want to; we can see the need for this to be done here. It is also positive that Save the child now also supports the proposal, so it can be said that at least here there is broad support, both politically and also among some of the organisations, for us to get something done to protect children from paedophiles who might abuse children sexually. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101434	Now it should not be misunderstood what the rapporteur said about the fact that it is positive that, when you have said no to something, you can later support it. Well, the Social Democracy has been for a ban all along. In the last session we had a minority together with the Danish People's Party. Now there is a majority, and I think there is every reason to recognise this, so that arguments can move and that we can also get a majority together to ban these dolls.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101511	We are 179 Members here in the Danish Parliament and I feel 100% sure that all 179 Members have the same objective, namely to stop the abuse of children to the extent that it is possible at all. What we can discuss is what the best means is of getting to that situation, or at least as close to it as possible. There is an excellent proposal from the Danish People's Party on the table today. For that proposal speaks of the fact that bans may put paedophiles on other thoughts. If they can't get near a child sex doll, they might not think that way. All respect for that point of view. Against the proposal, it would be better for a pedophile to react to a doll rather than a child. That is another point of view. What's right, and what's wrong with this? I can't give the answer to that. I might as well be 100% honest and say that I cannot give the answer to that. There are various experts who speak out in this area. Even they seem to be reasonable in doubt. In the Left we rely on the expertise of the opinions of the Children's Conditions, the opinions of the Children's Council and the opinions of the Sexological Clinic. They're against it. Is it so 100 percent certain that this is how it should be? No, it may also be that there are studies going in the other direction. But I have to say that at the moment and with the desire to protect children as much as possible, the Left does not support the proposal to ban child sex dolls, and I stress that it is solely to protect children as much as possible that we have the attitude we have. As I said, we rely on the expertise to which I referred earlier. It is all from the point of view of the fact that everything else is less horrible, that you think about attacking a doll than thinking about attacking a child. Therefore, in the interests of protecting children, we can easily agree to the common objective that everyone has here in the Folketing, but we are voting against the proposal because at present we believe that a ban does not help children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101755	Thank you. First of all, I must stress that I certainly do not suspect the Left for anything other than that we have a common goal. Let that just be said, because it is certainly not a discussion about it. But we are then looking at the practicalities here, and the ban that exists today, according to section 235 of the Penal Code, is that one should not spread pornographic photographs or films or other pornographic visual reproductions or the like of persons under the age of 18. That is also what I was trying to say in the speech. Well, I find it very difficult to see what the difference is between making a visual reproduction on movies or in a computer animation and seeing it on a doll. Nor have I experienced that the Children's Conditions or the Children's Council or others say it should be allowed. So I actually think there's an argument there that's about what's really the difference. I find that hard to see. I do not know whether you have also had some discussions on it in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101854	No, I understand perfectly well the thinking, but then I have to expect a proposal from the Social Democratic Party to change the provision which today bans the things mentioned films, photographs, the visual reproduction of children. That must be a consequence, as far as I can see immediately, but it may be that I misunderstand the questioner. In any case, I can say that I am taking a position on the proposal that is on the table today, and that position remains unchanged in relation to what I said the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101924	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101925	Well, I guess that's exactly what a bill is about. It is not because we intend to lift the ban on what is banned today. But we're just going to say that it's hard to see the difference between why it's forbidden to make a visual reproduction in a movie, while it's allowed to make a visual reproduction on a physical doll, and therefore the doll must of course also be prohibited. Well, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207101952	Yes, well, I am taking a position on the proposal as it stands here today, and it may well be that there is a discrepancy in relation to section 235 of the penal code, I shall not rule that out, but about the dolls is what I have said before. And let me stress once again: I am not standing here and I am 100 per cent sloping-proof, I might as well put it plainly. I understand that later this year there will be a proposal from the government in accordance with the resolution which will certainly be adopted, and I would like to say that we will, of course, look at it again: what does expertise say at that time? And then I will not rule out the possibility that we can revise our position. It will only be natural if there is a massive basis for the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102033	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102036	Thank you. I am surprised that the rapporteur cannot support this proposal and rely on expertise and experts, because I think it is the case that when you are elected as a politician, you are also elected on your opinions and opinions, and you have to stand by them, even though experts and experts say otherwise. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur's position on this. Is it the rapporteur's view that child sex dolls should continue to exist? Because even if they can be obtained and the ban does not go through, it is not a guarantee that a pedophile who has a doll will settle for it. Well, you don't know anything about that. I would like to hear the rapporteur's own personal opinion on this and not what some organisations he leans on say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102131	I have to say that we in the Left are suffering a little because we are therefore listening to the expertise. There may be areas where you yourself have no personal attitude, and then it is probably not forbidden for members of parliament to listen to what people who are smarter and have studied these things more closely than you think. Therefore, what I am saying is that the expertise we are currently listening to is the Children's Conditions, the Children's Council and the Sexological Clinic, and they support voting against this proposal. That's as far as it goes. But I can only say one more time: I am not sloppy and I do not have any further personal expertise. What's my attitude about sex dolls? My view is that this abuse must be stopped as far as possible for the sake of children, but one must understand that I am not an expert in this area and I cannot give any guarantee that this proposal would work according to the intention that we all have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102229	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102231	That is the way it is in politics to be careful about giving guarantees. However, the reason why I am asking about the rapporteur's own personal position is that we politicians are elected on our opinions and opinions. That is not to say that we should not also listen to what others who have expertise say. But that is why I wanted the rapporteur to be able to discuss his own personal position, and I still find it difficult to get the rapporteur to express it. I agree with the rapporteur that paedophilia must be stopped, but is it the case that the rapporteur cannot go into his own position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102313	Subject to my being able to repeat myself, I have to say that, as I mentioned earlier, there is the possibility that a ban puts paedophiles on other thoughts. That is what lies behind the proposal here. However, contrary to the proposal, the fact that it is better for a paedophile to react on a doll than on a child. And that's the last thing that's my opinion. But I still take the liberty of saying that I can think of other things as well. We are not arguing in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102346	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102350	Our position in the Danish People's Party is that we should be at the forefront of ensuring that paedophiles do not do what must not happen, namely to abuse a child sexually, because it has such great consequences for that child later on to have been subjected to such a thing. That is why we have looked at what is being done in other countries in relation to child sex dolls. In England they have been banned. In Norway, they have been banned. There has also been a much-mentioned case here recently, where a judgment has also been issued, in relation to this. So I have no doubt that this is important, i.e. that making a ban on child sex dolls is an important signal to send from the Folketing. That is why I am a little surprised, even when Save the Child now says so, that the Left is still standing firm that it is not going to impose a ban. And that's where I'd like to ask sir. Preben Bang Henriksen: Doesn't it make the impression that England and Norway have banned them? Shouldn't we do the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102449	Yeah, we look at other countries too. Two countries were then mentioned. I do not know how many countries there are in the world, but I am not really so duped that, for example, two countries out of all EU countries have done so; that is not what makes the bell ring that we absolutely have to do it. Then came a reference to Save the Child. I have read, and I have read, and perhaps even more than the media, what Save the child's psychologist Kuno Sørensen has actually said. He said here a few days ago: 'We believe that neither we nor anyone else who has to make decisions about a possible ban has the knowledge to make that decision on a professional and factual basis, so that it becomes more a moral position'. That is what he says, and then we can discuss whether it is a competence which refers to a moral position, but I have every respect for that person. I also have respect for the others who have spoken on this matter, and finally, as I have mentioned, I also have respect for those who vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal. The problem is that none of us have the ultimate truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102557	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102600	I also have respect for the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen, and for his argument, for I think it was very fine. There were things that spoke in favour of the proposal and there were things that spoke against; it was in the best manner that arguments were put forward there. But one can then say that when we are over it, we are actually at the heart of the matter: are we going to have a ban or not? And how do we signal to the surrounding world what we want to do as a paedophile? After all, we want treatment. We want to see no success in our venture. That is why I really think it is in favour of doing so when some of the countries with which we usually compare, England and Norway, have taken this seriously and have banned these dolls. And I do not really think that enough is being argued for why we should not do the same, because it is two countries that we are very close in many ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102651	Yes, now we do not need to copy the legislation of the two countries on all possible points. I can only say what I said before: if there are studies of, for example, the experiences of other countries I think we are missing, but this probably comes in connection with the government's submission of legislative proposals, we will, of course, look at the matter again. Because we should not forget that even in a parliamentary debate what the overall goal is for all 179 members here; that is to stop the terrible abuse of children. We can only afford to be uncertain as to what means must be used to stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102728	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102732	I would like to admit to the rapporteur that this is a difficult and dilemmaous debate. We think so in the SF too, but we choose to apply a precautionary principle for the sake of children. I am just trying to understand what is the rapporteur's position. I understand that you do not want this ban, but does the rapporteur really think that the animations should be allowed again? Is it supposed to be allowed to advertise this product? Does the rapporteur think that it is sensible, or is it really good to take that step and to ban children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102815	The questioner referred to a precautionary principle. It is difficult to oppose a precautionary principle. I could say with just as much weight that we are also in favour of a precautionary principle, but perhaps we are in favour of the idea that it is better for the paedophiles to react to a doll than they are reacting to a child. I guess it's also a kind of precautionary principle. Then the questioner asks how we deal with advertising these sex dolls. Yeah, I haven't given much thought to that, but there's plenty of advertising that's banned in this community, and this could be one of them too. But I just have to say that this is not something we have taken a position on in connection with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102904	No, but that is also something that needs to be considered, because it is like selling them, importing them, then it must surely be advertised. I do not think we are getting any closer, but I would say that I have found an Australian study which, although most of all, goes to child pornography, but which shows that there is a very obvious risk of gliding against something that is harsher and ultimately abuse of a child. We do not have that knowledge of child sex dolls, and we certainly do not have a Danish study, but is it not reasonable to believe that something similar can be the case with child sex dolls and that it may therefore be necessary to apply a precautionary principle in the interests of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207102944	It is nice to hear that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has listened to the expertise and found an investigation. I would also very much like to read it, I can say it out loud. Hopefully we will have the opportunity to do so here in the preparation. I guess we will also have an opportunity to look at whether there should be a ban on advertising. You could ask the government that, because they are bringing in the bill, and that would surely be a natural thing to look at on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103012	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103030	Thank you. It's disgusting to buy child sex dolls, and nobody should do that. It's disgusting, because sex and children don't belong in the same word or sentence. It doesn't belong anywhere. And that is why I think we all agree that we need to take a tough approach to paedophiles, because the worst thing you can do is hurt children and then this way they get trauma for life. One of the most important efforts to combat paedophilia and sexual abuse of children is in the specialised efforts of the National Police. They do it super well and catch one after another, and it is not easy because it often takes place in some very closed environments on a so-called dark web. Therefore, the Radical Left cannot support a halving of the National Police, for the criminals must not be more specialised than the Danish police. We must put heavy pressure on the hardest-boiled criminals who want children to hurt and not move the specialists away. The difficulty of this resolution is, on the one hand, whether possession of child sex dolls can lead to sexual abuse of children, or, on the other hand, of such possession, instead of preventing persons with sexual thoughts about children from committing child abuse and thus having a preventive effect. There is no clear research on one thing or the other, and I think we can agree that there is, first and foremost, a special need for research. This is probably the reason why both parties and organisations are in doubt as to what kind of concrete stand should be taken. Some people today have a different attitude than in the past, and I have full respect for that. In Berlingske this morning you could see that Save the child stands with one view and that the Children's Council and Children's Conditions are with another. And it's not often that it happens. That is why we in the Radical Left have not determined what we are going to vote on, and we will talk more closely to the organisations before we get to grips with anything, either in the vote on this resolution or in what looks like a future legislative proposal for the next session. At any rate, it seems that we have plenty of time ahead of the draft law in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103254	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103258	Thank you for that and also thank you for basically keeping the possibilities open to good radical manners, if you may say so with flashes in your eye. And far down the road, I think that is a fair argument. However, I would like to ask the same question that I asked the rapporteur of the Left, namely whether the radical rapporteur cannot explain to me how it is considered that cartoons and computer animations are prohibited, but that physical dolls are allowed to be made today. So, if you have the argument where you end up saying that it should be allowed with dolls, you should also be allowed to make cartoons, computer animations and virtual reality games where you can move around in a universe and have sex with kids... is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103352	That is certainly part of the consideration. And I think sir... Jeppe Bruus had many good reflections in his rapporteur's speech. I'm certainly not argument-resistant. And one could also jokingly say that it is in being radical when it comes to looking on one side and on the other. But I can at least say that I am not arguing, so I listen to it. But the question of whether you can compare movies or animations with child sex dolls, I can't really answer it, because I haven't seen the children's sex dolls or any of those movies. So I have no reason to say if they are similar to each other, all the time I don't want to look at any of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103429	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103430	But it is not the case that I imagine that back in 2002 and 2003 people were actually studying films and computer animations when they banned it. It was more a basis for the fact that one was opposed to the discussion which was also at that time and which, in the past, was linked to paedophileism and all that was a statement that it would not be allowed to produce children in a sexual situation for the purpose of having sex with them as well. Everyone agrees that child pornography should of course not be allowed at all, but it was also prohibited to imitate child pornography with real-life copies on movies, in computer games and animations etc. I do not think that at that time people have been studying it. Then I just cannot quite see in concrete terms what the difference is between the ban and the ban on a physical doll that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103522	I must also be honest and say that I do not know the difference between these films and these dolls either, since I have neither seen the films nor the dolls, because I think it is extremely disgusting and have no thoughts of seeing it in the near future or beyond.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103603	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate today. What we are discussing is whether it should be legal to buy real-life dolls that depict children, little girls who have temperature, so they feel like people, have light in their eyes and can speak. They don't mean that in Save the Child, and we listen to that in the SF. One can say that sex with a doll does not involve a real victim, as an assault on a child does, and the fact is that we do not know that sex with a doll leads to a desire for real children and therefore commits abuse. On the other hand, we do not know that if you are allowed to have sex with a doll, you leave children alone. That is why in the SF today we are giving the children the benefit of the doubt. For a precautionary principle and for the sake of children, we say that it should be forbidden to have a child sex doll. A foreign survey, which I have found • it's Australian • points out that the consumption of child pornography often develops. There is simply a gliding towards it being coarser and coarser, and there is a risk that it will eventually end up with an abuse of a child. Perhaps it is also the case with child sex dolls that when you get pictures and flesh and blood, so to speak, on your fantasies, it can lead to an abuse. I freely acknowledge that we do not have Danish and valid knowledge of it. We simply do not know whether that is true, but I do not want to take the risk, nor do I think it makes sense to have an animation ban and then allow child sex dolls. I would also like to say that I have had talks with a former legal rapporteur who was with us when we used to ban child pornography. At that time, she was contacted by pedophiles who said, "If only we can have our pictures, we won't hurt children." I just think that the development shows that, despite the child pornography ban, there has been more and more pictures coming on. The images are getting rougher, and online attacks must also be ordered. There's a development and a salutation in this area. We say yes to a ban. How the proposal is to be arranged and how the penalty is to be dealt with or whether it should be something else I leave to the Ministry. But in conclusion, we must remember that there must be help for those people who have thoughts about children. I think we could do much better, so I also hope that the Minister will take that away from the debate here today and take part in his forthcoming legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103853	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103858	We have a debate here in Denmark from time to time whether prostitution should be banned. One of the arguments used against banning prostitution is that although you are not in favour of buying sex from people, etc., it has the positive effect that if those who go to prostitutes often men can't have sex elsewhere, they can get it by voluntary agreement with a prostitute, and that it might prevent them from going out into the real world and just having sex, that is, rape. That's the kind of argument you hear. Is that an argument in which SF believes that there can be an accuracy? Or does SF think it's all wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207103948	In fact, I believe that this is something quite different. From the investigations that we have, we know that rape very often involves, what can be said, some prospects of power that make you commit rape. And in other cases it may be because you simply ignore signals. There is also often alcohol involved or other things, so I do not think that you can quite compare the two things. When it comes to children, it is also about people who cannot shout, and I therefore think that there is reason to be extra careful and extra careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104031	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104032	I totally agree. And if it were the case that we had material that showed that a ban on child sex dolls would undoubtedly lead to fewer abuse of children, then the Liberal Alliance would support it. But there are some who say that it might. can go the other way. It may well be that a ban on child sex dolls, if effective, will lead to some more attacking children in reality, which they would not have done if they had had a child sex doll. If it turns out to be right, will the SF still be in favour of a ban on child sex dolls?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104117	I think that much more research is needed in this area, and that is something I fully recognise. I only have the Australian study, which I don't even know how valid is, to lean on. And I have to say that I fully acknowledge that we do not have knowledge of either of them today. I'm just saying that we're taking a precautionary principle for the sake of the kids... we're doing it with our eyes open. But it is clear that in future we will have to follow how things are going with this. However, my impression is that, in relation to child abuse, there is unfortunately only a development towards the fact that it becomes coarser and coarser and more violent, and it is even without a ban on child sex dolls. So, unfortunately, that development is already there, and we will even be discussing another move by the Danish People's Party here today in the Assembly Hall, which is of course about these very unpleasant abuses that are taking place in third world countries where children are very, very vulnerable. So there is definitely a development in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104216	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104219	It is, in fact, more of a comment and recognition of the work that the SF rapporteur has also put into the recent debate on this issue that we have had here since the summer holidays. We have thus come to the conclusion that we can jointly obtain a ban on those dolls. I would just like to acknowledge the rapporteur and the SF for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104244	Thank you. I believe that everyone in this Chamber has a great desire to protect children in the best possible way, and it is extremely important that we do so. We must then also recognise that the perpetrators may need help, and this is about us also putting up a device to help those people who have those thoughts about children, and there I still do not think we are capable enough. I think there are great barriers to addressing the fact that there are great taboos about having it, and we simply have to break that down, even for the sake of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104328	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we have answered a lot in the past when we have been asked whether we are in favour of a ban on child sex dolls. We did the same when the previous version of the resolution we are debating today was at first reading in November 2017. The reason for this was that we did not consider it scientificly clear whether a ban on child sex dolls would lead to more abuse of children, or whether, on the contrary, the dolls seemed preventative as a kind of lightning conductor, so that people who felt the urge to commit sexual abuse against children used the dolls to drain their urge instead of attacking a child. Before today's first reading we have been able to hear, like many other rapporteurs, that I have been in contact with the Save Children, who today have a clear position and support a ban. The organization does so, among other things. on the basis of recent research published in 2019. That research has some rather vague conclusions, but nevertheless points out that child sex dolls can potentially contribute to child abuse, that is, what we all want to avoid. Save the child also points out that the dolls in recent years have become more realistic, and the organization is opposed to sexualised depictions of children. We would like to endorse that in the Enhedslisten. In the comments on this motion for a resolution, the authors have formulated the consequences if a person is found in possession of a child sex doll. Our position on the level of punishment and other criminal measures has not finally been clarified in the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group, but let us take that debate when, after the summer break, the government puts forward a concrete bill on a ban on child sex dolls. We think it is important that the future bill is well worked out and that it strikes the right balance between the punishment and treatment of those who feel the need for sexual abuse against children. If the government considers that a well-worked and balanced bill on a ban on child sex dolls can only be ready in the autumn, then we are, in fact, very open to such a timetable. That is why we do not necessarily support the motion for a resolution calling for a legislative proposal to be dealt with in this session, but we agree in principle to a ban on child sex dolls, and I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate today. It is also important for me to say that a ban must not stand in the way of research being carried out in this area, because, as we have also mentioned today, there is not much research showing what a ban will mean, versus what it will mean not having a ban. A ban must not stand in the way of us becoming wiser so that we can prevent abuse of children, which is what we are all interested in. Then I would also add, now that we have the debate, that we should generally have a more fundamental debate on how to stop child abuse, how to stop child abuse, not only in reality, but also digitally. We hope, in the Enhedslisten, that we will be able to take this debate here in Parliament at some point. But thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104702	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104713	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. In Denmark one may be punished for possessing pornographic photographs, movies or other visual reproductions of children, but one cannot be punished for acquiring a sex doll to look like a child. In the past, we have been sceptical about legislation in this area, partly because the children's organisations were opposed, partly because there was no scientific evidence to impose a ban. But there has been a movement since the last time we had the debate. Several professionals have said that they believe that these sex dolls can have an reinforcing effect on paedophiles' thinking. They believe that it will be more difficult for paedophiles to distinguish between children and dolls when equality is great. Among other things: Peter Fagan of The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Thomas Hammerbrink of Sexological Clinic at Rigshospitalet have said that sex dolls probably have reinforcing effects on pedophiles, and that impresses us. We are also impressed by the fact that Save the Child has also changed its attitude, and among other things. That is why we think it is quite fine that we legislate in this area and we support the motion for a resolution. We should not make it easy for paedophiles to live out their fantasies, on the contrary. We do, among other things. by making the approach to child sex dolls difficult. In addition, we will make it easier for our customs services to provide clear guidelines as to when they can confiscate these dolls. So when a ban on the purchase of child sex dolls can make the thoughts of some paedophiles not reinforced, we in the Conservative People's Party support a ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104919	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207104933	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we all have the objective of combating child abuse in the best possible way. I therefore think it is a good thing that this resolution has been tabled so that we have the opportunity to debate it in the Assembly and actually do something about what we all want, namely to combat child abuse. Although we do not have clear indications that a ban will prevent abuse, it is important to send a signal that children are not sexual and should never be sexualised. The alternative therefore supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105013	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105024	I have to admit that I think this is a proposal that is insanely difficult both to debate and to legislate on. We in the New Citizens have released our members because there is no clear evidence as yet whether a ban will mean that more paedophiles are criminals against children instead of using dolls or whether the dolls have a preventive effect, or, on the other hand, whether the ban will have a preventive effect. But personally, I just feel so tight about this. I cannot understand how one can accept that dolls which look like children, which one can penetrate and fill with semen, should be normalized in our society. I can't believe it. I can understand that someone is sitting out there thinking: this is a good idea; we have to make money on that. I can also understand that there are people who have their needs, but I simply cannot understand how one can want to normalize it in our society. Personally, I am clearly in favour of a ban, but we in the group have decided, because there is still no evidence in either direction, to release our members. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105159	Thank you. This does not give rise to any brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105209	If we had clear evidence or just the hint of evidence that the sale of child sex dolls leads to more abuse of children in reality, then the Liberal Alliance would be in favour of a ban. Unfortunately, there is no such evidence, and there are some researchers who point to the fact that the existence of child sex dolls can prevent child abuse in reality. There are others who say that it can nurture the fantasies of sex with children and thus lead to abuse of children in reality. We are in favour of a precautionary principle and therefore we are against banning child sex dolls because we are afraid that this will lead to more abuse of children in reality. Let me also say that the distinction to be made between what is a child sex doll and a normal doll must be unlikely to be difficult. I am aware that there are physical differences, but I can well imagine that if you as an adult are having sex with children, then you can also find a way to do some things with an ordinary doll, which cannot be called a child sex doll. That is why I think that there is actually more music in something that I have also read in the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party, namely that if people are apprehended or discovered to have sex with dolls that look like children, then they should have access to work with children in institutions or leisure associations or the like, and I think that should be done. The ban on working with children must be done whether you use one of the dolls that the Danish People's Party now wants to ban, or you use another doll that the Danish People's Party does not want to ban. I think that ban should be implemented immediately. As soon as it has been found that some adults want to play with fantasies about sex with children, they should not have access to be where children go to day care or school or in sports association or the like. So I think this is a very complex issue, and we take note of the fact that the organisations dealing with children's well-being and professionally do not actually go out and say that child sex puppets undoubtedly lead to more sex with children. They say we don't know enough about that. Save the child's position on this matter, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen has read from the platform that they do not agree that you can prevent sex with children by banning child sex dolls. They say explicitly that we do not know enough about this. Then they take a moral position. Children's Terms also say we don't have any knowledge about this. So, on the precautionary principle, we are afraid that a ban on these dolls will lead to more sex children in reality, and that is what we want to avoid, and we are therefore voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105612	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105616	Thank you for the floor. I respect the rapporteur's position, but when we talk about this precautionary principle, which is often used, in that we do not want to change anything that has been common for a long time, because we do not know the consequences of either introducing new legislation or changing legislation, so it is used in a context where we have a tradition of something, and the question is what happens if we break that tradition. We are dealing here with a relatively new phenomenon, and thank God for it and also a phenomenon which so far is relatively little widespread, so the precautionary principle may just as well be used the other way, that is to say that we have a precautionary principle that we say: we do not want these dolls within the borders of the country; then other countries must experiment with it, and when they find out if it has had a preventive effect, we learn from it. I know that this is not what liberals normally think, but if we are talking about a precautionary principle, we should also reflect somewhere on the fact that this is a relatively new phenomenon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105725	We can talk about precautionary principles in all possible ways, including as liberals. You can talk about having a precautionary principle in relation to not wanting to do anything because you are afraid of the consequences if you do something. On the other hand, you can also talk about having a precautionary principle in relation to doing something because you are afraid of the consequences if you do nothing. Now the precautionary principle was just mentioned here from the platform in a case where there is no knowledge whatsoever as to whether it can be applied in one way or another. We can be cautious and therefore prohibit, but we can also be cautious and therefore not prohibit, and I just wanted to present the other side of the matter once the first side of the matter had already been presented in the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105808	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105809	As I mentioned earlier, we have for the same reason also released our Members. But does the rapporteur not recognise that when you accept something as legal, there is also a risk that it will become a norm in a society? And if the rapporteur acknowledges that, I would ask whether the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance think that it is okay to normalize sex with what I would call paedophilia dolls, because child sex is not, in fact, something that is legal; we are talking about paedophilia. Does the Liberal Alliance think it should be normalized?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105852	In most other cases, we do not have the principle that if we accept that something that has the character of fiction is legal, we will somehow stamp it out in the real world. All kinds of crimes are committed in movies, fiction, theatre, etc., but it is not an indication that we as a society are thus blue-stamping that we are doing so in the real world. It is therefore also not the case that fiction about paedophilia is an expression of society's blue-stamping of the practice of paedophilia in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207105935	Thank you. I just want to start by stressing, as I did before, that it is not, of course, because I suspect anyone inside this Parliament at all for having goals other than the common goal. That is why, of course, it is still relevant to discuss how we come to our arguments. And I would really like to hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur on that, because we do not know whether there is enough knowledge about one or the other. Well, what we know about is that if you move borders, yes, you move borders, and then it's easier to take the next step in a lot of life contexts. And I simply cannot imagine why it should be different here. I mean, it wouldn't be a slippery path if you had pedophile thoughts and tried them off on a doll. That's part of Australian studies. It's not necessarily heavy science, but after all it describes the fact that this moving boundaries and looking at pictures and movies there are also some who describe it with dolls and robots so that you can move the borders. Can the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not follow that line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110043	Well, theoretically, it can be that way. But it can also be another way. If you hear men talking about their consumption of pornography, some say that it helps keep them on the mat compared to not having sex with women other than their wife, because they like to live up to the idea of doing it with pornography instead. That's not how they live that fantasy in real life. And if it can be right there, then I think it's a completely similar case of sexual behavior that we will not accept in this society, and which is forbidden • that there may be less of it, by being available in the world of fiction. And there it is just that those who look into it do not agree on the most important effect in such matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110145	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110147	I think that is actually a rather exciting argument, because it is a little the same as the rapporteur used in his question to the SF's rapporteur on prostitution. In my view, there is an important separation here between what is going on among adults and what is going on by allowing material to market cartoons, making computer games and dolls, which illustrate how adult sex with children can be tested. I do not think that should be an acceptable part of our culture. We recognise that, of course, some people may have this need, but I actually think there is a significant separation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110222	Well, I do not think it should be an acceptable part of our culture either, and I have the optimism on behalf of our culture that I never think it will be acceptable in our culture to have sex with children. But that doesn't change the fact that this theory that if you see it in the world of fiction, you will do it more in the real world, that is, a theory parallel to another theory that says that if you can get a drain on it in the world of fiction, you do it to a lesser extent in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110257	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110300	Thank you so much. I have to be completely honest and say that I feel exactly the same way as my President, Mrs Pernille Vermund, who said it just before I think this is a cross-border debate at all. I'm sitting here with an article that says that some of these sex dolls are shaped like three-year-old girls with teddy bears on their arms, have human-like temperatures, and have sound effects where the doll says: No, no, daddy. It's as disgusting as anything can possibly be. Now the rapporteur mentions this with fiction, but there is therefore a very big difference between watching a film about something that is punishable, that is fiction, and then lying and, to put it in good Danish, chopping in a life-like doll, as one to one is comparable to a child. I cannot quite understand how the rapporteur can make the comparison between fiction, whether it be theatre or film, and so this about a person lying and having sex with something that looks exactly like a child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110406	Let me first say that the thing about driving it up into a high tone of voice, as if some people are more morally outraged by child sex than others, is an unacceptable approach to this debate. Because this suggests that the rest of us are not as emotionally affected by these things as those who like to stand up like this. And it's wrong. The second thing I want to say is that there are also adult sex dolls, and I have never heard of anyone who wants to ban them. And they can also be used for example. to play rape games with. It is clearly forbidden to commit rape in reality, but that does not mean that we will necessarily resort to the means of banning rape games with adult sex dolls. And there may be different reasons for that. But there is just not the one-to-one relationship between that something is terrible in reality and that we should therefore do so in relation to something that is happening in the world of fiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110506	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110507	I still do not recognise the premise that this should be fiction, because it is not fiction if you lie and have sex with something that one looks like a child. That's what it is. But I think the argument is a little preposterous, so it's a bit like saying in my world: Well, if you just have some good tools to masturbate, you don't go out and cheat. Well, it doesn't add up in my world. To what the rapporteur mentions with regard to these adult sex dolls, I would say: no, because it is an adult person. But does the rapporteur not recognise that this is specifically allowing you to have sex with what one looks like a child on Danish soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110552	I am trying to tell you that this is very difficult in my world and in the world of the Liberal Alliance and that it is difficult because we do not know what the effects in the real world will be of a ban and that there is that possibility. Because there are some scientists who say that if we ban this in a fictional world, it will lead to more happening in the real world of something we do not want to happen. Nor has Mrs Mette Thiesen shown any studies in this debate which can clearly say that this is not the case. And that's why we have to keep a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110636	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110637	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who is for and against various parts of this proposal. I take note of what has been said by Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen and Liberal Alliance's side about sex with adult sex dolls, which is argued with can give rise to some things. I'd like to sign that for sure may be right, but isn't the difference when it comes to child sex dolls that you're sick, if you have this morbid urge to want to have sex with children, and then it's extra critical, not to say very, very disgusting, and something that we have to do everything to fight in our society? - Sir... Ole Birk Olesen doesn't understand that that's what this proposal is all about? It's not about adult sex dolls, it's about child sex dolls and a ban on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110741	I have no doubt that if you want to have sex with children or fantasize about sex with children, there is something seriously wrong with you. But there is also something seriously wrong with you in relation to the fantasies you can sometimes have about sex with adults. There are some who have rape fantasies, and it is also bad, I think, and you can imagine all sorts of things that adults can do with sex dolls that look like other adults and that we would disgust to a degree, so we would want to ban it if it were all that simple. I think I have tried to show the dilemmas, to talk about the dilemmas that are in this, but I think, unfortunately, that the Danish People's Party and New Citizens are trying to simplify this to an extent which is probably an expression of the fact that you are more into reaping popularity among people who also think it is more simple than it really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110849	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110849-2	No, we're trying to help some kids who could be subjected to abuse that could harm them for the rest of their lives. Well, there's people there, too, sir. Naser Khader mentioned the fact that in our world it points to this very thing, and there are also experts who point to that it can lead with it that it can affect children later on if we have allowed these sex dolls. That's also why both England and Norway have two countries we usually compare ourselves a lot with • banned child sex puppets. Don't impress me, sir. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110926	Yes, there are experts who say so, and there are some other experts who say otherwise. And there are some countries that have banned it, too, some countries that we are comparing ourselves to the EU, and there are some countries with which we are comparing ourselves to which we have not banned it. That is the way to pick the cherry that fits best in one's argument, but it is not the way to help bring out the nuances of this debate so that we have a broad and good discussion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207110956	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207111012	I would like to thank you very much for a positive approach to this proposal. I think that, whether you are in favour or against some parties, some are against the fact that we have had a good debate, where there have also been some nuances that are interesting to discuss. The interest on the part of the Danish Parliament, as I hear at least, is concentrated on one thing: how we can protect our children from sexual abuse with the consequences that it has. Of course, I should like to thank the Socialists in particular, who have not changed their position, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus announced, but the proposal was not adopted in the last parliamentary assembly, and a number of studies were needed, as was thought at the time. But fine and good that we stand where we stand and that the government will make a proposal. For SF, Enhedslisten, Conservatives, the alternative is the same, and then I could understand that New Citizens want to leave their members free, and it is quite free to do so, because you are only bound by your own beliefs as a member of the parliament. So I am actually just saying thank you to those who will then support the proposal in New Citizens. I would also like to say to the Left that there were some interesting arguments for, and also some against, but I can hope that time will work to ensure that it will be as in England and Sweden, so that we get a ban on these child sex dolls. The Radicals were not so wildly positive, nor was the Liberal Alliance against most of the proposal unfortunately. But a comfortable majority was there, and it is not every day that parties in this Parliament manage to get a majority for proposals, so that is fantastic. I would just like to refer to some of the arguments, because there are still some who still have to be convinced, as I have said, that we should make this ban. I have to say that when I first heard about child sex dolls, it ran cold down my back, because I thought it was so cross-border that such ones existed. I didn't realize they existed. We have to recognise that they have been found with pedophiles in Denmark, and there it is, of course, the case that for some people it stimulates, it satisfies this morbid urge to want to have sex with children or at least simulate it, and it is a child that you have sex with, because you think that it is a child you have sex with. For others, this may encourage real abuse of children, and this is where I think the proposal has the opportunity to work, and that is why we need to do the ban. For me and for the Danish People's Party, it is the case that children, sex and dolls just don't harmonize together at all. Because these dolls are made just to satisfy sick people, and that's why they have to be banned. It should not really be so difficult, it does not have to be so complicated to do, just as we have done with computer-animated child pornography, and just as we have done with child pornography here in recent times. It is, of course, a matter of keeping up with developments, and that is what has been done in a number of other countries. We want a complete ban. It has also been discussed here today how to enforce it and something like that, but we believe that it is a complete ban that must be made so that it applies both to possession, so that it applies to imports and so that it applies to trade in such dolls. It is true that there may not be scientific evidence to suggest that child sex puppets lead to more abuse. Conversely, there is no scientific evidence to suggest that child sex puppets do not lead to further abuse. I would like to say that I do not really think this documentation is that interesting either, not because we should not have it and get it, but here in the Folketing we are elected by the Danes on our opinions, and my opinion and my logical sense and common sense in relation to this matter are therefore fairly clear, as it is with others who have stood here on the platform. What is crucial is that having child sex dolls in all forms bears witness to a sexual urge that is morbid, and instead of continuing with a sex doll one should be treated for the disease by the public system. We should remember that these child sex puppets have also been discussed, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has also touched on this, which means that some dolls are not 10 cm in size. These are dolls you can dress in line with the dolls that many little girls play with. These are dolls that are very professionally designed so that they can pretend to be children, also large children • there are different sizes • they are prepared in very fine materials that feel like real skin, and then they are prepared with various holes that adults can enjoy too. So it is quite abhorrent and it is hard to talk about, but that is the way it is, and we must take a position on it, and I believe, as I said, that we should say yes to a ban on child sex dolls. So that they exist around the world, we can't do much about it, but we can do something about it in Denmark. England has banned them, Norway has banned them, and then it is time that Denmark banned them, because England and Norway are actually some of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves very much. In Scandinavia we have had a very large alignment of our legal systems, Norway, Sweden, Denmark runs in many ways almost the same way, and England is in many ways frontline when it comes to such things that harm children. So when we look around the world among the countries we usually compare ourselves to, we see that there are not many countries that are very different from us at this point. No, the countries with which we usually compare ourselves in some of the key areas have actually made a ban already. Then the question is what comes with a ban. As I see it, we cannot have a kindergarten teacher or a football coach or a scout leader who is dealing with children on a daily basis and who, at the same time, can legally have a doll designed as a child lying at home in the bedroom for later sexual use. So, as the Minister also mentioned, there has to be an effect on it, so if you break this ban, it has to have consequences in relation to criminal records and the like. So in general we in the Danish People's Party want to have treatment for those desires, and we also believe that this, as stated in the proposal, must be the consequence if you are taken with child sex dolls, so that instead of cultivating your differences you have to undergo treatment and take part in a process that means that you can get away from it. Then there are some who have spoken in this debate and it has to be my conclusion that this is just a small thing compared to so much else. And it is also true that it is one of the things we need to do to combat the sexual abuse of children, and the Danish People's Party also has a good offer here in a little bit in the form of another proposal that can help us to combat child abuse, and I hope that others will come up with proposals in the Danish Parliament which will enable us to deal with the situation that is so scary for a child later in life, and therefore I hope that we will be able to shape this proposal very quickly so that it becomes a reality as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207111905	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207111908	Thank you so much. I just want to thank the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. I think the rapporteur can listen to me at least how I am going to vote. But I also recognise that this is a debate which is both a debate on something ethical, something moral, and a debate in which nothing really lies, what can I say to you? In fact, I would just like to say something about what a previous rapporteur said, for which I find doubts as to whether everyone agrees on the objective, that is to say, the fact that we all think paedophilia is insanely disgusting and must be combated with all possible means. So what I just want to say is that I am quite convinced that everyone in here agrees that this is the goal for all of us; we just have some different ideas about how to get there. But then I just want to say thank you to this. I am absolutely convinced that this is a slippage, and that is why I support a ban. So I just want to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112016	So I would like to thank Mrs Mette Thiesen for her support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112022	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112024	There are people in this society who are very sorry that they haven't had a child themselves, and some of them buy such lifelike dolls as a substitute for that child, and they treat the doll like a child and care for it like a child. I imagine it's not someone who has body openings for vagina or anus, but they might have a mouth. What does the Danish People's Party think of itself? So, should such dolls also be banned, in view of the fact that they could also be used by a pedophile for sexual purposes, or should they be allowed? And what does the Danish People's Party think that these very lively dolls could then also be used by a paedophile if they are allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112122	Well, I don't imagine that dolls in general should be banned with this. I imagine that child sex dolls should be banned, and I hope that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance come on better terms, I almost said, that is to say, they agree with that. Because it is something that people in the tax administration, in other words our customs officers, have discovered in several cases what comes into the mail, that is to say the small part that they can control, and it is not just any dolls, it is child sex dolls like those that have been banned in England and Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112153	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112153-2	Yes, but if it is the case that the Danish People's Party's proposals lead to a ban on a certain kind of doll that you can rubricate as children's sex puppets, and the paedophiles find out that they can have some other dolls, which are very similar to those made for other purposes, but which can also be used by the paedophiles for the purposes that the Danish People's Party wants to ban, will the Danish People's Party then say that something has been achieved with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112220	I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is looking for a hair in the soup. I can't find it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112227	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112229	I'm just gonna sign up for Mr. Knox once again. Peter Skaarup for the initiative and for the debate. In fact, I think we have had a good and objective debate, and I say this to those who have indicated that they do not support a ban in the first place. One can hope, when we come to the autumn with the legislation, that we can get everyone with us. And then I think that the rapporteur also replied very clearly to that. It is true that we do not have the exact science, but it is not difficult to imagine that moving the boundaries, as in all other cases of life, will also mean something to those people who get tested something on a doll.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112315	Well, I quite agree with you, sir. Jeppe Bruus' reasoning here, and I think that we must stand together to shape this proposal in a way when it comes to drafting it as a bill, so it is acceptable for the parties of the Folketing. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to do so. Whether that's enough to convince sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen and the Left and the Radicals, we have to see, but as many people as possible who can support it, as wide a majority as possible would be desirable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112346	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Peter Skaarup. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112403	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112422	Sexual abuse of children is one of the worst crimes a person can commit, and the abuse puts deep marks in the child. This was confirmed to such an extent when a documentary about remote attacks on children through the Internet rolled over the screen in the autumn of 2019, a quite terrible phenomenon in which Danish men order and stream attacks on children, among others. Philippines. I see it as one of my most important tasks as Minister of Justice to prevent people for whom Denmark is responsible from committing attacks on children, both within and outside Denmark. I am therefore generally in favour of measures to strengthen this effort, and therefore I am also pleased that last December the Danish Parliament adopted the Government's bill on enhanced supervision of paedophiles. With the law, we are now expanding, among other things. the right to notify convicted sex offenders of the prohibition of residence with children, and we strengthen the supervision of the convicted. Now the police can, for example. without prior notice, seek out the sentenced person in his accommodation and carry out an investigation into the convicted person's computer, telephone and other IT equipment in order to ensure that the ban is actually complied with. At the same time, we put in place preventive measures, including: I have, as was previously provided to the Danish Parliament, obtained information from, among others. The United States, Australia and England on these countries' arrangements for restricting the entry of paedophiles. The information received has been handed over to the Kingdom Police with a request for the Kingdom Police's assessment. This should be seen in the context of the fact that the proposal made by the Danish People's Party for the automatic inclusion of the passports of all paedophiles for an indefinite period is hardly within our international obligations, whereas it is important that it is the immediate assessment that it will be possible to introduce passport involvement to some extent, for example. is intended to prevent further abuse and is suitable for it and proportionate to its consideration. So the government cannot support the resolution before us, but is working further to assess whether the intentions of the proposal can be achieved by other regulatory means, including, of course, whether it can be done in such a way that passport involvement in one form or another can be achieved. Thank you for the floor and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112723	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112728	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister what work the Minister will be working on exactly. Because it would be very simple to support the Danish People's Party's proposal precisely in relation to this. In the past, there has also been a study by a child NGO which at least thought that other countries should be warned if paedophiles were to leave. So exactly how and how will the government proceed with this, and when can we see anything from the government? Or would it be possible for the government, if some changes were made to the proposal, to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112808	The way in which it is actually being worked on is, of course, that we have gained experience from other countries • the United States, Australia and England and given them to the National Police and asked them to look at it. What is my intention is that we should continue to work on this and see how we can do it here in a way that will enable us to achieve what we want, namely to prevent this type of abuse and, at the same time, to keep within our international obligations. That's what's important about it. That could be enough in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112840	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112842	Well, it's kind of weird, isn't it? So, in the light of the second debate we have had on a ban on child sex puppets, one might say that paedophiles are allowed to travel, perhaps to other countries. We know that there are other countries where, unfortunately, children are sexually exploited. In the light of the discussion we have just had, what exactly is it that makes the government unable to support this, that you have a ban and can take the passport from a paedophile?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112919	It is, of course, as I said, that it is unconditional and that, contrary to the second proposal, where the discussion was, whether there is evidence or not, we have, in fact, here some experience from other countries with some ways in which they have organised themselves, for example. in the United States, Australia and England. It would be wise to lean on this experience when we decide how our proposals should be formulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112939	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207112942	I find it hard to understand why the government is not going to implement this proposal. Yes, there is something about international commitments, the Minister says, and it is clear, of course, that if it is the case that the countries that we have also indicated in the explanatory statement to the resolution have not done so, as for example. The Thai authorities have wanted to do so, thus preventing paedophiles from leaving the countries, and this can of course make an impression. There I would like to hear that if that is the case, the Minister has examined to the bottom how far one can go, for example. Going to Australia and the United States, will the Minister copy the scope of their intervention and present Parliament with a proposal on this before summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113042	It may well be that that is what becomes relevant. I don't know, I haven't even read the experience gained from the other countries... they've been handed over to the National Police for the further assessment. So I do not know exactly what arrangements have been made, and therefore I do not know how to prevent departure. What I am just saying is that it is the assessment that it will be possible to introduce passport involvement to some extent. And what I'm also saying is that I think it would be relevant for us to look at it. The fact that we can reach and have a legislative proposal in place for adoption in this session is probably unrealistic, as we would have liked it, as we would have seen from the proposal before banning child sex puppets, that it will also be in the next session. However, if all motions for resolutions, questions, all Wednesday issues and all consultations are removed, it may well be that I can have time to deal with them just before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113132	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113133	Of course we have patience in the Danish People's Party, especially if it ends up with us being able to adopt what we really want. I just want to say that it was on 9 September 2019 that the Danish Radio's TV-Avis featured that such arrangements had been established in the United States, Australia and England. We then put forward the proposal on 11 December. Then it is fine that there is some time going on with the gathering of experiences, but I would also like to see some kind of commitment in time as to when experience will be collected and when action will be taken on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113212	Well, the experience has been gathered, and the information received has been handed over to the National Police Department, which makes an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113221	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113242	Thank you. There should of course be no doubt that abuse of children and, in particular, sexual abuse of children, is one of the most abominable things that exists, and that is why, as the Minister also said, we made proposals this autumn to tighten up control of these people who commit sexual abuse, even after they have served the part of their sentence which is about prison but thus to keep a tighter watch over these people. Because we will certainly do what we can to avoid getting out of prison, moving to another place and attacking some new children. There are many bad examples of this. One of those many can remember is this case from Prayer with a man who is serving punishment, moving the municipality and attacking two new children, which is quite unforgivable, one may well say, and which at least says that all authorities are doing what they can to share information and cooperate that this is not happening. That was among other things. some of the reasons for the quite harsh tightening up of the law we made with the bill in the autumn, which also included the fact that, without a court order, it is possible to check that they are not in the process of committing new abuses. Therefore, it also makes great sense to look at what we are doing to protect the children who are in Denmark; but of course we also have a duty to see if we can't do anything to ensure that these people don't go on new sex trips and attack children elsewhere in the world. And that's why sympathy is definitely for this proposal. As the Minister also explained, there is, of course, a process going on in particular about the part that is about it being forever, which can be difficult to achieve. It just does not change the fact that the intention is the right one and that these people, when they have moved there, will notice that we are keeping a very close eye on them and also increasing the pressure so that they do not commit any new attacks. They must then live with that, and they must live with the fact that we are exercising more stringent supervision and control over them. I think that the passport can certainly be taken away from them for a period of time. So I have every sympathy and understanding for that. And the Minister has explained the process under way and why we cannot support the part of what is about taking the passport forever, but that we certainly support the intention and the further work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113535	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113553	Thank you for that and thank you for the suggestion. This illustrates that the focus is on the serious problems of paedophiles who abuse children. The Left supports the intention of the proposal, namely to restrict the operation of paedophiles. If I mention what we have done, together with most of the other parties here in the Danish Parliament, it is therefore, in order not to be shot in the shoes later, that we do not take paedophilia seriously because we cannot vote in favour of this proposal. I think the debate we had during the previous proposal could indicate that. So let me repeat that the previous government actually put forward proposals for extended possibilities for the police, the so-called agent rules, whereby the police can go in and listen to conversations, popularly said, and thus, after the amendment we have made, now also have the opportunity to clarify paedophile business. We have carried out an increase in compensation for tort in these situations. As the Minister for Justice mentioned, we have strengthened the supervision of paedophiles in relation to the entire paedophile legislation. And we have strengthened the treatment of pedophiles. So we're 100% aware of the problem. But that does not mean that we are also in favour of such a far-reaching proposal as what we are discussing here in the Folketing today. I can say that in this way the proposal is formulated, it will mean that a paedophile cannot go on a day's trip to Flensburg to take action or, for that matter, a trip to Sweden. In other words, there must now be proportions in all to put it plainly, and I also noticed that the Minister for Justice wanted to look at things to a certain extent and would then also gain experience from other countries. I doubt that there are such serious restrictions as the proposal here will lead to, that is to say, that we cannot go beyond the borders of the country at all. The Minister of Justice said that there could be problems with the international conventions. I haven't looked into that yet, but I assume the Justice Department does. We in the Left do not believe that there is anything linking paedophilia and geography, let us put it that way. So missing passports don't make a pedophile well. In fact, I think that is important to make that clear. Unfortunately, missing passports means that you are a pedophile in Denmark when you would otherwise have left. I have to say that I have difficulty in seeing that it should have the effect that the proposers indicate here. If that were the case, and it is at least the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I know that punishment has a general preventive effect. It is also a view which we generally support in the Left that it could then be said that it should discourage people from going to Thailand and committing offences there, that you can have a trip to a Thai prison, at least until you are extradited to Denmark. I actually think that if you think about the traffic to Thailand, the penalty will be somewhat more severe if you commit your offences over there. On this basis, the Left cannot support the proposal, but of course we have noted that the Minister of Justice wants to investigate practices in other countries, and we have to say that it is not uncivilised countries that are referred to, so we are interested in knowing what it is, and certainly also whether the practice is as far-reaching as the proposal here indicates.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207113947	Thank you. No one has asked to speak, so we thank the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114008	Thank you for a sympathetic suggestion. We support the intention behind the proposal, namely to take tough action against paedophiles who commit terrible acts of violence. We have discussed this earlier today, and in the Radical Left we agree with that intention. But what difference this proposal really will make, I am much more in doubt, because we are mixing up a number of things. What is being proposed here is to take the passport from people who have endured their punishments, and there you can ask whether you should then ban people who have robbed a bank from withdrawing money from the bank after they have endured their punishment, because they might rob it again. Unfortunately, I do not think that it is the removal of passports in themselves that determines whether paedophiles are committing an attack. This will probably require some other preventive measures and international cooperation, and the Radical Left would rather take action there. So we fully support the message, purpose and intention, but we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114117	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114120	I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Radical Left: is it not quite understood that the Radicals themselves think that it is fair enough that if you are a paedophile you can have an effect on the relationship you have committed and the punishment you have been given, namely that you are denied access to certain places close to children? Is it not true that the Radicals think that is fair enough as well? As a result: is it not reasonable enough to protect children in other countries to remove the passport from the paedophiles concerned if they intend to arrange, for example, for children in other countries? abuse of children in another country? Isn't that fair enough? Isn't it reasonable to protect the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114217	It is absolutely true that the Radical Left supports residence bans and contact bans. To the extent that they are transparent, proportionate, well-argued, we naturally support it because it makes sense in this way to prevent and prevent future abuses. I just don't think, unfortunately, taking away a passport doesn't mean you're not committing abuse. So I don't think this is helpful, and I note that there isn't the great, broad crowd that disagrees with that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114248	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114250	I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard, if it hasn't impressed Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that the Danish Radio could bring broadcasts showing that Thailand's police thought it would be a good prevention to protect their children from international sex criminals, that they took the passport from paedophiles, for example. in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114317	Yes, it has certainly made an impression, but it has not been enough to be decisive in the position of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114322	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114343	In the autumn Denmark's Radio sent a program called "Sex assault on ordering," and if you didn't see it, I can say that it was about how children from the Philippines were subjected to a new type of sex abuse, where Danish men could sit behind a computer screen and order sexual assaults on children and young people who they saw live online while it happened. There were experts out saying that the abuse is even more violent by the fact that the perpetrator is sitting behind a screen because it is simply easier to decouple empathy. These kids come from slums where there is poverty... it's huge... and where adults who are close to them sell them out of need. It's so awful and depressing that you can't stand it. UNICEF estimates that in the Philippines, one child in five has been subjected to sexual violence and abuse, one child in five. The Philippines has become the new epicenter for online abuse. Should we then take the passport from all convicted paedophiles, like other countries that have already done so, so that they cannot go out and commit abuse? I think that the proposal from the Danish People's Party is worthy of recognition because there is good music in preventing them from travelling to, for example. Thailand, the Philippines or Cambodia, as I have heard, is the latest shot at the tribe in relation to child abuse. But I would say that I think it is too far-reaching to take the passport away from all those who, after all, can be worthy of recognition for the purpose of travelling. On the other hand, I think we also have an obligation to help those countries which suffer from the fact that their sex industry has been well sustained, including by citizens of our countries. That is why I actually put a question to the Minister. Because I would like to know if a scheme could be made whereby Danish police were allowed to deal with selected countries, for example. The Philippines, which has special problems with the sexual exploitation of children, to inform the local police that now there is a sex doomed from Denmark which is about to enter that country. I asked because the Filipino police in these programs demanded such a scheme. So I asked the Minister to indicate the pros and cons of such a scheme and considerations in relation to, for example. the exchange of personal data with a third country such as the Philippines, which certainly does not have the same requirements as we have. I was told that this information could actually be exchanged if the police knew that a sex-judged Danish citizen was planning to go to the Philippines, and it was assumed that he would also take part in such activities there or that there was at least a risk of doing so. I think that we should perhaps clarify in the committee's work what is actually going on with the use of such a system. Now I hear that the Minister is talking about us looking at whether we can take the passport in some specific cases. I will deal with the Minister's proposal when we see it, but I actually think that there may be a certain reasonableness and reason that if you think about going to some of these countries where there is a great risk of abuse and you have a conviction in your luggage, we can take the passport in those situations or say: you cannot travel because we have a reasonable presumption that you will commit criminal offences in this country too. In fact, I think we owe this to those countries which are often very alone in combating these abuses. So we look forward to finding out what the Minister is presenting. I think that Denmark also has a responsibility to combat the child sex industry that is in some of these countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114740	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And this is Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114750	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now is a revised re-submission of a resolution that we first discussed in May 2018. At that time, the Enhedslisten was opposed to the motion for a resolution. We're still gone. Of course, we agree with the authors of the motion that sexual abuse against children is a terrible crime and that the abuse can persecute the victims for the rest of their lives. However, if a person is convicted of sexual assault on children, he is sentenced to prison or treatment. Once the penalty has been passed, he must have his full civil rights back. This is a fundamental principle of the rule of law. And one of those civil rights is that you have your passport. In addition, we consider it very, very doubtful whether the inclusion of a person's passport would prevent child abuse if the person actually has an unbridled urge to commit abuse. But I and Enhedslisten fully agree with the Danish People's Party in the intention behind this proposal, namely to prevent abuse of children. We just don't think this proposal is the solution. But we look forward to having a debate on what is the solution. How do we stop child abuse in reality, but also in the virtual world, in other words on the Internet, where, unfortunately, we also see very serious violations of children? We have to stop that. This proposal we do not believe in in Enhedslisten is part of the solution, but we would very much like to discuss how to stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114933	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207114952	Thank you. This resolution is a re-submission of a similar motion for a resolution from 2018. It is proposed that convicted paedophiles should have removed the passport until an expert considers that they do not commit any new abuse. I would like to begin by recognising the good intentions behind this proposal. Sexual abuse of children is one of the worst crimes you can commit. As a society, we must do everything in our power to prevent children from being subjected to sexual abuse. When the terrible thing happens, we must help the victims the best we can, and there must be a tangible punishment for the perpetrators who have to spend a long time in prison. In the Conservative People's Party, last time we discussed the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, we said that perpetrators should go to prison and that we should try to treat them so that they do not commit any new abuses; but we basically do not believe that it makes a difference to the treatment of the sex offender whether they have a passport or not. Our position is still the same as it was last time. At the same time, the government could be encouraged to work internationally to ensure that countries plagued by child sex tourism, for example. The Philippines, Thailand and similar countries are tightening up their visa rules in relation to paedophiles. It could be another way to go. However, we cannot support this motion for a resolution to remove the passport from those condemned who have endured their punishment. That would be overkill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115140	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the alternative, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115159	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of this proposal by the Danish People's Party is to remove the passport from persons convicted of sexual abuse against children until a doctor considers that they are no longer deemed to commit any new abuse. The withdrawal of the passport must prevent the convicted paedophile from travelling to other countries where it is possible to attack children. Here the DF has special focus on the South-East Asian countries, where there is so-called child sex tourism. This means that for me the purpose is noble; it is clear that we must do everything we can to avoid the kind of travel where the purpose is to go on vacation and abuse children. Having said that, I do not think it is the solution to deprive convicted paedophiles of the passport. Technological developments already allow the paedophile to sit at home at his computer and participate in child abuse, among other things. Southeast Asia. In recent years, it has been mapped out how backers at home and abroad organise attacks on minors online. I think we've all seen the latest story of Selma, 13 years old, that was abused over the Internet. What I would rather be aiming for is a hard work on prevention and treatment in connection with a sentence that is given to paedophiles and, of course, also if you have not done anything yet, but have their inclinations. In addition, I also believe that the authorities must clearly step up efforts across national borders precisely in the light of the technological developments that have taken place in this area of crime. The Internet represents a huge challenge in this area, and this is where the focus must be. The alternative does not therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115336	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115353	Thank you for the floor. In the new citizens we support the intention of the proposal, but we do not believe that paedophiles who are at risk to others, including children who may be in other countries, should go anywhere without supervision. It must be the case that if you have a conviction for paedophilia and if you are still considered to be a danger to others, then you must be held in prison or under such strong supervision that you do not risk attacking Danish children either. So we support the intention behind the draft law, but we cannot support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115428	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115438	Thank you. We cannot support the motion for a resolution. If you want to go that way to prevent convicted Danish pedophiles from travelling to countries where access to children is easier, then we think that the Danish authorities should help the authorities of the countries to reject those people on entry, deny them visas, etc. etc. We are not in favour of preventing Danes from travelling to Germany, Sweden or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115515	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we shall now conclude with the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207115532	Thank you for Parliament's consideration of this proposal. I did not meet such a complete wall, but on the other hand there are also a number of parties who obviously do not think this is a necessary proposal. And you have to argue for that yourself, and that has been done here from the platform. What I am interested in here are results. These are achievements in combating paedophilia and in protecting children from abuse, including children abroad. And it is clear, it makes a great impression on us in the Danish People's Party that Denmark's Radio has had a broadcast that showed that a number of paedophiles, among others. in Denmark, interested in going to Southeast Asia to do things and things that are quite terrible, with children. The fact that in some other countries you may have a different relationship with your children, where you do not have as much checks on them as Danish parents after all, unfortunately it is something that is very attractive to paedophiles. And especially if you are being treated for your paedophilia, it would be very bad if you could go abroad during that period. That is why I took note of what the Minister said, namely that we believe, as I understood it, that we want to go as far as we can, in relation to and for ourselves going in the same direction as the proposal here, namely as far as we can go, for example. The United States and Australia have done so in which certain measures can be included in relation to the exit of paedophiles. And we in the Danish People's Party will be interested in keeping a close eye on how things are progressing, and that is why, of course, we are also impatient in advance in relation to what the Minister said, that it might not be possible to promise to be before the summer. Yeah, but maybe it can be by Christmas, because we're preoccupied with doing what you can to protect children. I would just like to deal with the more practical and fundamental aspects of this proposal, and it is, among other things, that paedophiles and a passport to travel abroad simply are not connected for us to see in the Danish People's Party. Because we know that there are countries outside Europe which are designed in a different way from Denmark in relation to children and where it is very accessible for a European paedophile to be able to carry out his work. Some countries are corrupt, some countries are more or less turning a blind eye to trafficking in human beings, to abuse children, and that industry we do not want to support from the Danish People's Party. And it has to be said that children, no matter where they live in the world, should not be subjected to sexual abuse by adults who have such morbid desires and desires that they want to have sex with children. We cannot contribute enough to prevent this from happening, and we think so, among other things. can be done by depriving Danish pedophiles of their passports. And we believe that we must contribute to the safety of our children. It probably doesn't make sense that Danish convicted paedophiles and I really hope that the Danish Parliament will agree with this in various ways, as at home, that they will be prevented from continuing their sexual assaults on children, completely free to travel out of the country, for example. to Asia, and without any attention to their person or deeds can commit new assaults there. And there we cannot defend that people who have been sentenced in Denmark to various measures to avoid their return to paedophile tendencies are allowed to go abroad and can continue their abuse there. And no, of course the passport should not be taken from those concerned forever, but so long that there is a professional assessment which shows that they can pose a risk to children in the form of abuse. And that is what we are writing in our resolution. To cut off pedophiles who are still in treatment from going abroad and continuing their sexual abuse is not alone. So this proposal is not alone. And we have just considered the proposal made by the Danish People's Party on a ban on child sex puppets, namely B 57, here in the Danish Parliament, and we also want to make various other concrete proposals from DF to curb sexual abuse against children. But a withdrawal of the passport is part of it and an important part of it. For those people must instead take care of their treatment and be cured of their morbid tendencies in their sexuality. And when it has been satisfactory, they can leave the country again just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120055	Thank you. No one has asked to speak and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120109	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120130	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution on hate crimes which the Danish Parliament will be discussing today. The proposal has two parts. First, the Danish People's Party wishes to add the word disability to section 81 of the Criminal Code, no. 6, so it is going to be an aggravating circumstance in the execution of the sentence, if the work is based on the victim's disability. Secondly, it is proposed to add a checkbox on hate crimes to the police notification template. Let me start by stating that I agree with the Danish People's Party that there is a need for new initiatives in the field of hate crime. There are running stories coming out in the media that show that what we are doing today is not enough. This is an area with the government's focus on security aspects, preventive action and support for the victims of hate crimes. That is why I also indicated in the autumn of last year that I would look at measures to strengthen the fight against hate crimes. My approach is to listen to those who have particular knowledge and insight into the area. That is why I have invited a number of organisations, among others. The Institute of Human Rights and the LGBT Denmark for a meeting where they will tell me how they experience the problem and what they think we should do. One of the things I want to discuss with the organisations is how we increase the reporting tendency. We have studies that indicate that there is a significant dark count because many do not report hate crimes. We therefore lack a clear picture of the real scale of the problem. I would like to see more cases brought to light both so that we can prosecute the perpetrators and so that we can have a better overview of the area and, on the same basis, take action with targeted efforts in the right places. We also need to look at how to ensure that victims of hate crimes receive the best possible treatment when they report their relationship with the police. In other words, this is an area of great concern to me and the government. I have much sympathy for the Danish People's Party's proposal to add the word disability to section 81, no. 6. As the provision is worded today, it must be an aggravating circumstance when the courts measure the penalty if the crime is based on the ethnic origin of others, their beliefs, sexual orientation or the like. The provision does not explicitly mention disability. One might wonder why, in other words, the criminal code of 2020 does not mention disability. However, it is already an aggravating circumstance if the perpetrator has taken advantage of the victim's defenseless position. This provision may be relevant for the exploitation of disabled persons if the victim is in a defenceless position. But it does not catch all hate crimes committed against people with disabilities. If we look at other areas, we can see that disability is equated, for example, with disability. skin color, religion or faith. This is true, for example. in the field of discrimination in the labour market. I agree with the authors of the motion that crimes motivated by the victim's disability should be regarded as hate crimes and that the provisions of the criminal code should therefore mention disability; that is something I want to go ahead with. The second question raised by the Danish People's Party, i.e. the question of the cross-check on hate crimes on police reporting templates, has been raised several times under the previous government. I agree with the intention behind the proposal, namely to bring more hate crimes into the light. As I mentioned at the outset, the dark is something that concerns me. This is something we will look at in the initiated hate crime work. However, I am not convinced, like previous ministers, that a checkbox on the police reporting template will solve the problem of dark figures. It works for me to put it bluntly as a paper solution that creates unnecessary bureaucracy. The police notification template is a standard template used in all criminal reports. The police receive approx. 300,000 reviews a year. If the joint notification template introduces a cross-check on hate crimes, the police will have to mark in a very large number of cases, including cases without hate motive, whether there is a hate motive. And isn't that exactly what we're really good at politically? When we see a problem, we demand additional documentation, control and registration, and at the same time we criticise the public sector for drowning in dolphins and bureaucracy. However, I agree that we must do what we can to ensure that all hate crimes are properly recorded in police systems. This is absolutely essential for us to be able to monitor the area and thus get a true picture of the extent of the problem. That is why, in the hate crime work that has been carried out, we must also look at whether police registration and monitoring of hate crimes can be improved. So, although I can support the intention behind the proposal, not least in relation to section 81 of the Criminal Code, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120711	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120715	Thank you for that and thank you for the positiveness of the Minister's speech. But it is still surprising, I think, that the Minister cannot support the proposal. For it is precisely in relation to Article 81 of the Criminal Code that acts committed because of a person's disability are currently not covered by criminal law. So I am surprised that the Minister for Justice will not support the whole proposal, also because they say that work will now be started. I'm just thinking that there's been some work going on in this area. I mean, this is nothing new, but it is actually something that we have discussed before in other contexts, including in the Committee on Gender Equality and in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where we have done so together in order to focus precisely on hate crimes. So you can support one part, I understand, but the Minister of Justice cannot support the other part. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120821	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120823	Is it not also true that there is already work, including that of the previous government, in relation to hate crimes, which can be leaning on? Because it's been a big wish, too, compared to this one with check templates. So what exactly is it that the Minister of Justice cannot support in relation to check templates, that is to say, when you have a review, you tick where it says there is a hate crime? That's what I'm wondering. But in conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister: if the Danish People's Party will then make an amendment and one part can be supported, will the government vote in favour of that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120901-2	What we cannot support is that we say that the police must now do less police work and more paperwork, that in 300,000 reports they must relate to whether it is a hate crime or not, when we know that in the vast majority of them this will not be the case at all. The Danish police are piled up in bureaucracy; we should rather use the Danish police to solve crimes. So that is what we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120932	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207120954	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to come after the Minister from the same party, who is so detailed about the position of the government and therefore also about the position of the Social Democratic Party. That is why I would like to take the liberty of taking a few more points in relation to what the good minister said and say that this hate crime issue is a very serious matter. Unfortunately, we see that it appears and that in some parts of our society it is also more widespread than in others, and it is of course crimes that are based on a demeaning and hateful view of some typical minorities, which one can somehow justify to oneself that it is okay to attack alone because of their skin color, religious affiliation, sexual orientation and beliefs, and also because of a view of people with disabilities, and that is unacceptable, whether it is one or the other. We will not put up with it, we will not have a society where such things are allowed to develop, either in general terms or in some specific environments, and that is why it is quite obvious to share what is in the proposal. It is surprising that just as much disability has not been mentioned on an equal footing with some of the others, because it is quite clear that, unfortunately, people with disabilities are also exposed to some of these abominable crimes, and the Minister for Justice, as I have just mentioned, has given a very good account of the considerations of the criminal code and also of the initiatives that have been set in motion. Therefore, I just have to say that we cannot support the resolution to its full extent, but that we do share the need to highlight this and, of course, this one also wonders why it is not mentioned in the criminal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121209	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121212	Thank you. The Minister of Justice also said that there is a great deal of darkness in this area... you don't have an overview of it. That is why it would make great sense to make a checkbox for the registration of hate crimes as well. But can the rapporteur confirm that, if you do not want that part, but you can support the second part, so that an amendment is made to section 81 of the penal code, so that disability is added, will support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121255	I can confirm that the Social Democratic Party will take a hundred per cent up on the assessment that comes from the government in relation to possible amendments. And I think the Minister for Justice has actually answered that question, so we will have to take that when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121310	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121311	The reason why I am asking is that I did not quite understand the Minister for Justice's answer, i.e. whether it would be supported if it were voted on, if we then removed the second part. That's why I just needed an answer from the government party about what to do. I think it would be very good if we could support the whole proposal, because it would make a great deal of sense, also in the light of the dark figures and of the reports, but if we as the rapporteur cannot get it all, we have to settle for half of it, so I would like answers to the question to that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121348	Then I regret it was not to ironize about the questioner or the question, because I think it is quite relevant. I heard the Minister of Justice say we have to look at it, and I think so too. I also think it is very loyally referred to here by the questioner that we can work on the part relating to the criminal code and, as regards the second part concerning the cross-checking scheme, it is also part of the work where initiatives are being looked at. We shall see when we deal with it in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and look at the amendments that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121421	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121425	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's clear rejection of hate crimes regardless of their motive. I think we all agree with that. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that some of the things that make it particularly difficult to combat hate crimes are the absence of figures and statistics. There is a very large amount of darkness that the Minister mentioned. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is, in particular, figures and statistics that are one of the major barriers to really tackling the fight against hate crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121501	Well, there are huge dark figures. In other words, that is what is needed. However, as I know the radical rapporteur, the radical rapporteur is also very concerned about how we at Christiansborg are trying to flood the police with as little bureaucracy as possible. So it is a balance between making sure, on the one hand, that we get this into the light and forward on the table so that we can deal with it effectively and, on the other hand, to find out how to do it wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121525	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121526	Thank you for fully agreeing with the rapporteur that figures and statistics are one of the keys to combating hate crimes. Therefore, I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the Socialists' proposals are for obtaining relevant figures and statistics to combat hate crimes, so that we get even further, and so that we show that it is completely wrong in a democratic society by 2020, when you do not think that it is the police that are closest to us and who know the criminal and perhaps even the motive that has to cross it off in the notification. What do the Socialists have ideas for collecting figures and statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121602-2	Now I get a little confused here, with all due respect to the radical rapporteur, because when we sit around the table and negotiate, we are very concerned about precisely finding this balance between, on the one hand, the police solving what we want them to solve and, on the other hand, finding a way to do it wisely so that we do not build unnecessary bureaucracy. I don't have that answer to the nest hand here. That was among other things. Some of what the Minister also mentioned. We are looking at initiatives in relation to hate crimes, and then I hope that together we can help to qualify it. But I would be a little surprised if the radical position now was that we should be very detailed here on a Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121637	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Yes, there was just a brief comment. It is welcome). Okay, this is Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121645	I also pressed in just at the last minute, so I understand that it was not discovered. I just got a little curious about the fact that the rapporteur said: we are looking at hate crimes right now. I was just curious if it includes all hate crimes. Because I think it's really important that it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121705	I can see that the Minister nods, so I rely on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121711	Then there are no more brief comments. Oh, yeah, there's another one here. Sorry, the Socialist rapporteur needs to get back to the platform. Okay, the questioner has withdrawn, so there are no more brief remarks. It will create less confusion if we have a little control of both pressing in before the rapporteur has gone down from the platform and also press us out again when we no longer want to have the floor. But now it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121748	Thank you. Yes, we just got a swing around here and it ended with the rapporteur being able to see that the minister nodded his head. I was just saying that it was good that he could not hear it, but at least the Minister is quite right. These are some excellent intentions that the Danish People's Party has in this proposal. I have only one comment to make on this, and that is that what you want, namely to sharpen the penalty in cases where the criminal act is based on the victim's disability, is already regulated by the criminal code. We are in section 81, and one has then concentrated on section 81, no. 6, but then we have section 81, no. 11 and it states that it must be an aggravating circumstance that the perpetrator has exploited the defenseless position of the perpetrator. If you go into the comments and see what a defenceless position is, it says that the provision is aimed in particular at crime committed against vulnerable groups of persons, for example. children, disabled and elderly. That is to say, it is already regulated in section 81 of the Criminal Code as a penal circumstance, so we do not need to vote for it again. I fully agree that the courts must of course take this into account, but it is already regulated in the law. The second section concerns cross-checking, and I can only refer to what the Minister of Justice said, namely that we should be careful as far as possible that the police will not deal with too much bureaucracy, and I am sorry to say that this will be an example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121933	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207121936	Law is law. However, the Minister for Justice has confirmed in a reply to the Equality Committee that the provision in section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, does not include acts that have a background in a person's disability. In other words, criminal acts motivated by the victim's disability are not hate crimes in the criminal sense. Then I will just hear about the rapporteur's position on that answer, because the rapporteur said something else from the platform, and we have also heard others say something else from the platform today. At the same time, there are also others. The Institute of Human Rights, which has advocated this, is precisely to register disability in the law. So the rapporteur is free to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122029	I can't help what others say, but I can do what I say and have said myself. I note, then, that as far as I could just hear it, and that is also in the proposal itself, what the Minister for Justice has said is whether the provision of Paragraph 81, no. 6, these include disability, and it does not do so, the Minister is quite right to do so. What I'm saying is that it's already described in section 81, no. 11 in the notes to that provision. So it's already regulated. If we were to vote in favour of this proposal, it would be the same as putting forward a proposal which prohibits driving across the red. We already know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122109	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122110	I am still amazed at the position of the rapporteur of the Left, because it would be a good thing to include it in the legislation itself when it comes to disability. And there will be no harm to it, except that it will make the Danish People's Party happy to get the support of the Left and a number of others will be pleased with the support of the Left. So I simply cannot understand what exactly prevents the Left from voting in favour. It is said that this is already the case, but if that is what the rapporteur says, then it is easy to vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122147	Well, as I said before, we are not making any proposals on something that is already in force today. We do not support proposals for something that is already in force under the law today. And I would therefore urge the questioner to perhaps ask the Ministry of Justice to answer the question, because it is perfectly understandable that the questioner has some doubts about my interpretation of it. In short, however, it is a question of whether the problem is not already covered by Paragraph 81, no. 11 Thus already governed by the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122219	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. It's sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122235	Thank you. It is clear, of course, that if somebody is attacking me, then of course they must have a really harsh penalty ^ alone therefore I can support the proposal. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Article 81 of the Criminal Code today lists a number of cases where it should be regarded as an aggravating factor if they are included. For example, according to section 81 of the Criminal Code, no. 6, be considered as aggravating if the work is based on the ethnic origin, belief, sexual orientation or the like of others. If you read in Karnov, it is not clear whether, for example, disability is covered by the concept of similar in the provision, and therefore it also makes good sense. Although it is mentioned elsewhere in Paragraph 81 that it is an aggravating circumstance if, for example, the perpetrator has caused someone else to contribute to the deed through coercion, fraud or exploitation of its considerable personal difficulties, lack of insight or light-heartedness, as can be seen from no. 9, or as can be seen from No. 11 that the perpetrator has taken advantage of the indefensible position of the perpetrator, we do not consider that the two provisions apply broadly enough, as if, for example, the word disability were included in section 81, no. 6. For example, I do not regard myself as having considerable personal difficulties, lack of insight, recklessness or being in a defenseless position. Some might think the opposite when it comes to lack of insight, but it must be a political assessment in those cases where it is, as it were. That is why the Radical Left supports the proposal and we can support the introduction of a checkbox on the police notification template to be used in the event of a declaration of hate crime. Because there is a need for a real plan of action on hate crimes in general, that is to say all kinds of hate crimes, because crimes of that nature are based on a completely wrong understanding, namely that everyone is not equal. We must actively oppose hate crimes. We must not tolerate them in a democratic society by 2020, and we must implement all democratic instruments to avoid them. This is one of them. It is urgent and can only go too slowly. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. You can feel that it is a good, wild Friday here before the winter holidays, when the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left find common ground in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122521	Thank you. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122534	I can then continue where the radical rapporteur left off, because I am very much in agreement with the Danish People's Party in this proposal. I think we should follow the recommendations of the Institute for Human Rights to add hate crimes to the criminal code based on the victim's disability and make it an aggravating circumstance, and we should also have a checkbox so that we can learn more about the extent of it. In many ways, this proposal is exactly the same as the one that SF fought for in the 00s. Back then, it was about homosexuals. There we simply did not have much knowledge of exactly that, so we would have made it an aggravating circumstance at the time too, and we wanted a checkbox so that we could learn more about the extent of it. It was also a little uphill then, but, as you know, at some point, we did succeed, and today we know from the annual reports made in this area that there is indeed a problem. Now we can document it, and that also means that we can act on it. So, of course, we must do the same when it comes to crimes based on the victim's disability. You think it's a lie that somebody can do this kind of thing against people with disabilities, but unfortunately there's a salutation in certain environments, and we also know that for homeless people it's an increasing problem; you kick them, hit them, pee on them when they're on the street. You think it's a lie, but it's not. According to the Institute for Human Rights, 15% of the population is affected. of people with greater disabilities, that they may or certainly have been harassed or committed with hatred as a motive, and at the same time a much greater proportion of these people are exposed to physical, mental and sexual violence than the average population. I think that is unacceptable, and that is why the proposal here makes sense. We say yes to better protection for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122739	Thank you. There are no brief comments and the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207122757	Thank you. The proposal now before us from the Danish People's Party has two elements. On the one hand, it must be a penalty-breaking circumstance if a hate crime is based on the victim's disability and, on the other hand, there must be a checkbox on the police notification form so that it can be crossed off if the reported crime is a hate crime. The first part of the proposal is based on a recommendation from the Institute for Human Rights, and I cannot help noting to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that the authors of the Danish People's Party are now finally listening to the recommendations from the Institute for Human Rights, and I think that suits the Danish People's Party, because in other areas we have seen that the Danish People's Party does not listen to the Institute for Human Rights. So thank you very much to the Danish People's Party because you are now listening to the Institute for Human Rights. The comments on the proposal from the Danish People's Party refer to a thematic meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Gender Equality just under a year ago. The Institute of Human Rights documented that hate crimes on the basis of disability are a problem and recommended that disability be included as a criterion for punishment in section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, in line with race, ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation. On the same occasion, the Foundation recommended that gender identity and gender expression be mentioned in the same way in the penal code. The Danish People's Party has not proposed this, but the Enhedslisten has in return in the last session. We hope that the Danish People's Party will help us bring it forward once again. But perhaps it should also be seen in connection with the fact that the former party leader, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, in a tweet in May 2019, wrote a comment on the European Melodi Grand Prix, where she wrote and I quote: Too much gay, drag and gay in Eurovision. Sometimes one gets the impression that some politicians from the Danish People's Party do not have an entirely open and open-minded relationship with the concepts of gender identity and gender expression, but it should not stop me from taking the opportunity to say that the Enhedslisten will be able to support that not only disability, but also gender identity and gender expression should be mentioned in section 81 of the Penal Code no. 6. The second part of the resolution here deals with a checkbox on the police notification form so that it can be indicated that this is a hate crime. In fact, it is a proposal that Enhedslisten has also made in the past, so we naturally support that too. We believe it is important that the police officers who receive the notification in this way should be given greater attention to the fact that this is a hate crime. It is the case that the police today have a system key, a search key they can use, but it is not the case that the victim's assessment of whether there is a hate crime here is taken into account in the police's decision of these things, which is why it is actually very reasonable that there is both a police checkbox and a victim's checkbox. I do not know whether it is because it is Friday or whether it is because it is winter holiday in a moment, but this is the second time today that Enhedslisten can support a legal proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123131	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123145	Thank you for the floor. It is totally unacceptable that people with disabilities should be subjected to hate crimes motivated by their disability. That is why we must, of course, be severely punished for committing such crimes. According to Danish legislation, it is an aggravating circumstance that the perpetrator commits his crime against the background of e.g. Ethnic origin, sexual orientation or belief, and therefore it is only fair that the punishment should also be sharpened against perpetrators of hate crimes against persons with disabilities. We must strike down hard on those who think it is okay to commit crime against people because, for example, they are de veloping or have another form of disability. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123239	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123252	Thank you for the floor. We have had a debate on the subject and we have come to a good conclusion on the proposal, so I choose not to read out the whole speech, but simply to say that in the alternative we think it is a good proposal, but in line with the Enhedslisten, we also think that the proposal should contain something about gender identity, gender expression and sexuality. That is why we are looking forward to the work of the committee so that we can make the proposal even better. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123331	Thank you. Then the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123343	Thank you for the floor. The intention behind the motion for a resolution is good. It is already apparent from the penal code that it is an aggravating circumstance that the defenceless position of the injured person is exploited and that the fact that it is a disabled person is an aggravating circumstance if you commit this type of crime. So from the New Citizens' point of view, it is a question of whether there is any need for more legislation in this area or whether it merely creates more bureaucracy. If this is all about us having more checkboxes with the police and more bureaucracy, we say no. However, we are pleased with the provision already in the legislation, and if it can be tightened up, so it is so clear that we do not need to deal with it again, of course we also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123437	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123440	I just didn't quite understand what New Citizens really think about this, because, as I said earlier, the Minister for Justice, in an answer to the Committee on Gender Equality, confirmed that the provision of section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, does not include acts based on a person's disability, or in other words, that criminal acts motivated by the victim's disability are not a hate crime in the criminal sense. So, don't new citizens think that it would be good to clarify disability in the penal code? And does New Citizens support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123516	New citizens support intention. And this is gonna be a matter of law. In No. 11 it says that it is an aggravating circumstance if the perpetrator has exploited the indefensible position of the perpetrator. It is clear that if the Minister or those who write the Minister's papers, and thus the Minister by means of the proposal, is of the opinion that one would like no. 11 over standing under No. 6, so it is quite explicit, that is, that which then stands as a note to no. 11, we'll back it up. But if that means creating further, what to say, detailed regulation of how the police are doing their work out there, and that we will have control schedules and cross-checks that do not have a real effect, but only take up police resources, then we are not ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123615	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123616	Now you don't know what effect it's gonna have. New Citizens can't say that because there's a huge amount of darkness in this area. So that will certainly mean that, if you record it, you can at least keep an eye on it, compared to how many people come in. But in relation to writing in the word disability, I just need to know if New Citizens support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123641	It is, in fact, already in the law. It states: This provision is aimed in particular at crime committed against vulnerable groups of persons, for example: children, people with disabilities So it is already in the law, and that is why I say that we can discuss it here, in relation to whether it should be even more explicit. However, I think that there must be either some officials who have given an answer that is not very close to the truth, or perhaps the proposal can be tightened up so that we know exactly what the proposal will do in relation to the current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123724	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123726	Thank you. I just have one question for New Citizens about hate crimes. It is not so long ago that we had a debate in here about anti-Semitism and how we are going to get rid of it, and I just think that it would also be very relevant in this context for the police to have some tools that make us avoid these dark figures that we have discussed a little in this debate. That's why I just need to know if New Citizen doesn't support us making these tools for the police, i.e. these checkboxes. Because I am not convinced, like Mrs Pernille Vermund, that this will create more bureaucracy for the police. In fact, I believe that it will create a situation in which we have a better overview and where those people who are subjected to hate crimes for one reason or another will feel more secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123818	If we take this quite specifically in relation to anti-Semitism, then the big problem is that there are a lot of people who do not report it and that there are a lot of people who keep it quiet. We know that the Jewish minority is having a hard time and a hard time seeing itself as victims, even when real crimes are committed against them. That is why, in relation to anti-Semitism, the dark figure is a very specific dark figure, which is that there are people who do not go to the authorities when a crime is committed against them, and that must be combated. It cannot be the case that, whether it is because of a disability, your faith, your skin color, your sex or your sexuality, you do not dare to say that you have been subjected to something and that you indirectly feel that you are offering yourself because you think that the perpetrator somehow has a justification for what he does. It is never right to commit crimes against other people, regardless of their background. But I do not think you can compare these two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123926	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207123928	I fully agree that there may be different reasons why we have dark figures here and that there is a situation around Jews. There is also a special situation about gender expressions, that is, people who are attacked on the basis of their sexuality, and there is a special situation about people who are attacked on the basis of their beliefs, which are not necessarily Judaism, and then there are disabilities that we are discussing today. It is just that I am surprised that, if you care so much about someone not being attacked on the grounds of gender, disability or sexuality, then you cannot back up the fact that we are giving the police and, above all, the victims the tools needed to get the right numbers in relation to this so that we can solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124012	As far as I know, there is nothing to prevent the police from registering these crimes, and so, as I know, the crimes are also recorded. That's why we can sit with figures from the Ministry about one thing and the other. But when there are dark numbers, there's the thing about what's the cause of the crime. Now we had earlier Mr. Kristian Hegaard on the platform, who was joking that we should make the legislation simply because he is disabled and he will not be subject to a crime, and another could say that he is subject to a crime because he is a man, a third could say that he is subject to a crime because he is a white man, and a fourth could say that he is subject to a crime because it is politically motivated. Well, what's the cause? There may be many reasons for this. But it must be the case that the police have and use the tools they think are the right ones, and when we have legislation where it is explicitly stated, I think it is a little bit to shoot grey sparrows with guns.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124105	Thank you. Speaking time is as long as it is now, and when I say thank you, it is about to be very much exceeded. Thank you. Then the next rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124122	Thank you for the floor. Hatred crimes belong to the type of crimes that can be called crimes of another ethical background, and these are particularly serious crimes, and hate crimes against people with disabilities are, of course, also very serious. They are, after all, so serious as we have heard in the debate that has preceded them that they are already prohibited by Paragraph 81, no. 11, and that is where we agree with the arguments that have come from the government and from the Left, which say that it is unnecessary to ban the same things twice. The question of bureaucracy remains, and we agree that bureaucracy must be limited. It is already a problem that public authorities, including the police, should spend so much time on registration and so little time on core tasks, and we should not make that worse. So the seriousness of the problem raised by the Danish People's Party turns out that it is already banned, so there is absolutely nothing wrong with the intention, but we cannot therefore back up this piece of legislative double-confection. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124245	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124248	But so, there is the very big difference that in relation to no. 6 it relates specifically to hate crimes, where in relation to no. 11 concerns defenceless victims. And there is a difference, because it will be the case that crimes motivated by a person's disability will not be covered if it is a person with a disability who is not guardianless. So there's a difference. So can the rapporteur define what this is like in relation to defenceless people? For these are two different points, and that is why it is in the penal code as it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124326	That is to say, as the case is, it is clear from the comments to No. 11 that it also applies to disability. So, with all due respect, I'm having a little trouble understanding this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124340	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124341	But I just have to say that there is a difference between that, for one, that is, no. 6, concerns hate crimes, and No. 11, which is mentioned in this debate, is about defenseless victims. So you can't compare it that way. This means that it only covers a person with disabilities if he is defenceless in that situation. And that's why it's a lot about law. So it's not covered in that I have also received an answer from the Minister for Justice about which I previously read out. So will the Liberal Alliance still not support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124418	We therefore find it very, very difficult to understand the distinction made by the questioner, because both our Minister of Justice and the rapporteur of the Left themselves are lawyers and have examined the matter, and the fact that they are, of course, honourable political colleagues, but in fact both lawyers who are trying to explain the matter also make a certain impression on me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124443	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124447	Thank you. I would also like to ask about this section 81, no. 11 where it is clear that these are cases in which the perpetrator has exploited the indefensible position of the perpetrator. I would just like to ask whether this means that the rapporteur believes that the guardianless covers all types of disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124510	I can't answer that right now. It's a very sophisticated question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124517	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124518	But if there is any doubt about it and if it has not yet been clearly defined in this debate, it would not be a good idea to write the word disability into section 81, no. 6?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124530	I think the arguments put forward both by the Minister for Justice and by the rapporteur of the Left are very good, and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124539	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124542	It was just to say that it is explicitly in the note: "handicapped." There is also an example; it says watch-keeping. I mean, I'm not a lawyer, but I guess there's a reason why you haven't written blinds, but watch-watchers that you kind of have something that means that you may be able to move around and move around and may have a relatively ordinary life, but your disability means that you're just less at risk of a crime committed against you. The rapporteur, who was on earlier, is a lawyer himself, and this is clear from the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124628	Yeah. Brief remarks are, of course, to the rapporteur, who stands on the platform, and not rapporteurs who have previously stood on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124635	But I did not hear the question myself, so I thank the President-in-Office for his clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124644	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. So we now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who is allowed to wind up the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207124713	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate so far. After all, this resolution is based on a thematic meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Legal Affairs in its last session on hate crimes. In the Danish People's Party we sometimes listen to those with whom we disagree, Mrs Rosa Lund. We have the same attitude as a number of other stakeholders in this area, so we have listened to them, and as I have also said, the Justit Minister in his reply to the Equality Committee has confirmed • and I read the answer again • that section 81 of the Penal Code no. 6, does not include acts that have a background in a person's disability. In other words, criminal acts motivated by the victim's disability are not hate crimes in the criminal sense. But I think you just mix things up, and then you say that you rely on no. 11. But there's a difference between no. 6 and No 11. It is, of course, the case that what we want to register concerns hate crimes, and what is referred to today relates precisely to defenceless victims. Crimes against a person with disabilities will only be covered by no. 11 if the victim is also guardianless. Crimes motivated by a person's disability will not be covered if it is a person with disabilities who is not guardianless. That is where the difference is, and it may at least be difficult for those who are not trained lawyers. But we certainly want the word disability to be written in. And as previously discussed today, it is precisely difficult to determine precisely the number of victims of hate crimes, because many do not report that they have been subjected to a hate crime, which also suggests that there is a huge darkness in this area. The great difference between police records and the public's own perception suggests that there is a significant degree of hate crimes which are either not recorded or which are not reported as hate crimes, and as long as the scale of the problem is unknown, it is also difficult to combat. That is why we in the Danish People's Party want to change the checkboxes on the police notification form so that you can tick if there is a notification of a hate crime. The lack of statistics in this area also leads to a lack of knowledge in relation to the extent of the problem. The focus on hate crimes should be increased, and more attention should be paid to hate crimes, they should also be more reported and recorded. That is why, on 27 March, the thematic meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Gender Equality on hate crimes was discussed and proposed that the police's notification form should contain a check box where the police can tick if it is a hate crime. That is why we have now also proposed that the government should take the initiative to include this checkbox on the police notification template. We had hoped that there would be broad support for this, but I would certainly like to thank the rapporteurs from the Conservatives, the Radicals, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for their support, and I hope I have not forgotten anyone, and I hope, Minister for Justice, that the Minister will think very well of an extra time and then support the whole proposal. The Minister of Justice is shaking his head, and I think that means the Minister of Justice thinks he won't think about it. In any case, I would urge the Minister of Justice to think very carefully once again. If the Minister for Justice, having thought about coming back to the Danish People's Party and saying that he would like to support everything, it would be gratifying, but if it turns out that the Minister for Justice and the Government cannot support the whole proposal, but parts of the proposal, it will be the case that we will be tabling an amendment to amend section 81 of the Criminal Code. 6, and then we have to take it from there and continue to do so in committee. In any case, I would like to thank you for the many positive comments that the proposal has made on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125156	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125200	First of all, I would like once again to sign the resolution, which is very positive, and then I have two small questions. One is that I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that on 2 May of this year she, I think, was given an answer to a question about disability and section 81, where the Ministry of Justice pointed out that there is no printed case law on it, but that it may include disability, but that it is not particularly safe and that it would therefore make good sense to get it into no. 6, because, as the Ministry of Justice expresses it in its reply to the rapporteur, there are some doubts. The second question I would like to ask briefly is whether, with the positive focus that the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party have today put on hate crimes, the rapporteur agrees that there is a need for a national action plan for all kinds of hate crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125255	I fully agree with what the radical rapporteur has to say on the question of hate crimes, and that is why I think it is a little slip in this debate when it comes to adding it. In any case, it is important that this should be clarified. In relation to an action plan on hate crimes, I think it is very good that we are making some long-term plans and other things, and this work on hate crimes has actually been going on for quite a long time. I also remember that in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport I think it was with the Committee on Gender Equality that we had a hearing on hate crimes in the world of football, in other words in the world of sport. So I think that this is certainly an important area in which we could easily continue to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125351	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125352	Thanks for the positive receipts. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that when the Minister finishes his good preparatory work at some point involving various actors, for whom hate crimes are unfortunately relevant, it is a result that the Danish People's Party will agree that all types of hate crimes must be actively distanced from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125416	There is nothing more to be done about hate crimes than repudiating them. I mean, it's totally unacceptable. However, in relation to the preparatory work that is being talked about all the time, I just think that there must be a great deal of preparatory work on all that we have discussed, both under the auspices of the committees during previous meetings and initiated in various ministries. So the fact that some work needs to be done again, rather than perhaps using the work that already exists, is sometimes surprising when it is said by a minister. Sometimes you think of the evil painter and the jam jar.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125459	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125502	Thank you, and thank you again to the Danish People's Party for raising this extremely important issue. I would like to return to some of the points that have also been raised in the debate, namely whether this will create more bureaucracy for the police. It is the case that there is already a search key for the police to apply for hate crimes, and that is why my immediate thought is and I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party that it will not create more bureaucracy, that you put an extra box on the review form, so that the victim also has the opportunity to give his experience of whether this happened in the light of the fact that he was born with a disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125541	Actually, I think it won't. Among other things, there were: that hearing was not Mrs Rosa Lund who took part in that hearing, but it was one of Mrs Rosa Lund's fellow party members where we were very much in agreement and where Mrs Rosa Lund's fellow party member was also wondering why it had not been put into effect long ago because it had been discussed for so long in relation to this cross-check. So it is certainly a point where Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti agree, and it is a good thing that you can agree on some things when you disagree on so many other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125617	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125618	Yes, sometimes we have seen that a few slightly different alliances arise in here recently. My next question is about this jam jar thing. After all, we are now in a situation where we are about to negotiate on police resources, and it will certainly be very important for the Enhedslisten that in those negotiations we also ensure that there are resources to carry out both the task of combating hate crimes, but of course also to document the problem. There I just want to hear the Danish People's Party whether it is something they support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125652	After all, it is always difficult to take debates that are held in one room, to the Parliamentary Chamber, and respect for it. However, we also have some requests for resources to be transferred to the police, and we must also bear in mind that administrative resources are important. Because even if you get extra cops, sometimes it happens that you remove some of the administrative staff who are just sitting here with this. That is why I think we must have found that balance in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125726	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125743	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207125812	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the alternative for focusing on this important agenda, which actually concerns me a lot, and which I know from talking to the various parties that many in the Folketing are preoccupied with. It should be safe to be in a relationship. Unfortunately, it is not for women who live in violent relationships. Unfortunately, this testifies to the fact that we have not yet achieved equality in Denmark, and it says something about Danish society that we have this problem. The work to detect and prevent violence in close relations is therefore also an area which deserves great attention, not least from the police. That is why, of course, it is important that the police have the right tools and resources to carry out the task. A new multi-annual agreement is to be concluded on the finances of the police and prosecutors. In fact, this has already started, and I have therefore started a process in which only yesterday we had a meeting in the great and important process. Violence in close relations, like a large number of other themes, has been raised in the context of the discussions on the multiannual agreement, which we have recently begun. This is a large and important overall agreement, and so it is not acceptable to cut out the discussions and take them down to the Chamber in order to deal separately in individual areas, because then we will not be able to make the overall balance that is needed in the big agreement. Therefore, at this stage, the government cannot support the proposal to set up special police units to deal with violence in close relations, in other words because this is an issue that we must address in the negotiations. I have to say, however, and it should be said to the authors of the motion for a resolution that the motion for a resolution has been tabled before the negotiations began. But we must negotiate that at the right table, and we are doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130013	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130019	Thank you very much to the Minister. In fact, I only spoke to say that the proposal has been under way for a long time. You know, we've been working on this for about three or four months now, and then it collapsed like this. However, I hear the Minister say that, because of the negotiations, we are not voting for the proposal, but that the Minister is in fact positive about it here, and I would just like to sign for that, and then I look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130050	It is true that this is an important issue that we are going to address, also because it has been put on the table in the context of the negotiations that we have already started so little.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130102	Thank you, Minister. There is no need for any further brief comments, and that is how we proceed with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130121	Thank you. I think that both I myself, the listeners in this Chamber and those who come with me from home, have just attended the Minister's speech and the receipt from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and it is indeed very good that it is dangerous to be in close relationships, at least if you are subjected to violence or rape or murder. Unfortunately, the statistics speak a very clear language, i.e. it is in close relations that the frequency is highest, and that is why it is of course very important to focus on it. After all, not so long ago we had a debriefing of the consequences of rape. We are looking at the whole area of rape, and there has been a report on the murders which also bears witness to the risks associated with it. In this way there is a real need to focus on close relations and, as the Minister also explained, this is one of the things we are going to look at when we are sitting around the negotiating table. So we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur, and so we go to the next rapporteur in the series of speeches. It's the rapporteur from the Left, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130246	I would like to thank the alternative to this proposal, which deals with an important issue, namely violence in close relations. Let me hurry to say that no matter how close the relationship may be, violence is violence. So we have also chosen to clarify this here in the Folketing in a direct amendment to the law that we implemented a year ago. We ended with psychological violence, which was probably covered by section 244 of the criminal code and possibly section 245, but now we have clarified it as autonomous provisions so that everyone can see that mental violence is also covered by the provisions of the criminal code, and that certainly also covers violence in close relationships. So there is full understanding of the proposal in this area. The problem is that we are sitting and negotiating a police agreement; or at least we must get on with it. This proposal allocates 10-20 employees to a special unit in 12 police circles. That's about it. 170 employees who go for this. I fully agree that this is an important purpose, but I can, unfortunately, be afraid that the resources of the police can, like, come to an end, regardless of the fact that we will have more officers to see or that we will, hopefully, do so. There may also be limits to how many special units we can then set up. You usually call it a task force, it's like it's wrapped a little better and sounds a little more efficient. I would like to congratulate the alternative for the word "special unit'. Just in the last five minutes, we have heard that there must also be room for administrative staff at the police. I fully agree with that. We have also heard that the police should have a special box to cross off in, and we are now hearing about a special unit. All of these are good things, but let us take them into account in future police negotiations, let us look at where special units are needed, and let us make the priorities that are to happen there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130503	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and thank you for your positive feedback. We do not attach ourselves to how such a unit should be put together in concrete terms with 10-20 employees. May I ask the rapporteur just to make it clear: will women's violence and murder be an agenda in the negotiations in which the Left will support the alternative, and will this be a priority area in the negotiations on the left side?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130547-2	It will be very easy to answer yes, but we cannot prioritise everything. Then there's somewhere where the math doesn't hold. On the other hand, I can vouch for the alternative rapporteur for the fact that violence in close relations is going to fill something, but I cannot guarantee that, especially in the situation that the police are today, we can give it an independent unit in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130615	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130617	Thank you. When I ask, it is because there are often and often figures on border controls, in relation to what it costs and what we spend on it. The Minister of Justice has told us in an answer that, for example, we are not going to be able to do anything about it. During all those years at border controls, not one single gun has been found that works not a single one. But you could say at the same time that we spend so much money on it, but here we have 38,000 women, where we have recorded that they are being subjected to violence. In relation to the proportions, I just think that we should give priority, but isn't the Left also looking at solving and preventing women's violence? Spending resources on it is far more important than, for example, spending resources on it. border controls and some of the other things on which we are spending money today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130709	I'm not in a position to make that balance. These are both important issues, with all due respect, but it is probably a little bit to compare apples and pears, or whatever they say. In any case, I cannot make the balance that the rapporteur really wants. However, as I said, I have respect for the important issue raised here. We must also look at this during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130734	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207130756	Thank you and thank you for the alternative proposal. After all, committing violence is totally unacceptable and something that we in the Danish Parliament have also had a great deal of focus on. That is why we also amended the legislation last year, precisely in relation to the inclusion of psychological violence. It is true, as the authors say, that it is estimated that approx. 38,000 women and 19,000 men are victims of partner violence, but while the figure for violence against women has remained fairly stable at the same level over many years, there has actually been an increase in violence against men. However, this proposal deals with the creation of a central specialised police unit, in accordance with the wishes of the proposers, and it also proposes the creation of special police units in 12 police circles which have specialised knowledge and work interdisciplinaryly with a focus on preventing and investigating violence in close relations. In fact, I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that violence is violence, whether it is in close relationships or not, but at least to create this special unit, which is intended precisely to ensure better investigative action by the police and also to provide the necessary help for the victims of violence. It's a very, very sympathetic proposal, also in terms of focusing on these things we have had in relation to violence, but that we also have it in relation to rape and other things. We have also just debated hate crimes, so these are a lot of important elements. As has already been said, we are currently in the middle of a debate, so I think that is where we need to work on things. However, I would like to thank the alternative for the proposal. I look forward to meeting in a negotiating room and discussing further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131006	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur. As I said earlier, this is a proposal we have been preparing for many months, but it coincided with the negotiations we have now started. And since all the rapporteurs say that we must now wait for the negotiations, I cannot help asking whether the Danish People's Party will support and give priority to this in the negotiations. We already put it on the table. SF has also put it on the table. But will the Danish People's Party, together with the Alternative, SF, Enhedslisten and the other parties who now want to give priority to this area, support this in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131050	I always think it might be asked: where should we take these negotiations here? Should they be taken in the Parliamentary Chamber, or should they be taken into the negotiating room? And there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party think this is important, and there are very, very many things that are important, that is. And we ourselves also have a number of wishes for those negotiations. So I hope that, at some point, we will be able to reach agreement on what the agreement will contain. But I'm thinking we'll go to the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131121	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131124	I'm sitting here keeping such a list of the positive and the negative. Compared to this, I'm writing positive. It's like there's different numbers coming out about this border control. The last thing I saw was we spent 1.2 billion. kr. on border controls. And border control is a heartchild for the Danish People's Party. But here we are talking about a special police unit, which costs about 100 million. kr. 1.2 billion kr. for border controls and 100 million. kr. to help women. So I just want to hear the rapporteur of the DF say: yes, we support this when we come to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131204	I can repeat myself that I am happy to do so, namely that we take the negotiations in the negotiating room. But I am glad that the alternative mentions border controls, because there is no doubt that border controls are important. And that is why we will probably also be talking about some border controls in those negotiations. Because it is the case that the government has not really set off any money for that border control. And we just have to say that in terms of what we get from the South and South Jutland Police, we can just see that this border control really has an effect, both in terms of drug smuggling and trafficking and all sorts of other things so it is a good and effective border control with driving around and monitoring and everything. We could also discuss facial recognition in these police negotiations. I'm just gonna say that with a smile on my lip for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131254	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We are therefore moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is now the Radical Left and Mr Vandemeulebroucke. I give the floor to Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131309	Thank you to my good friend, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the proposal. I know that this is a topic he is passionate about, and he must have a great high five for it from here, because so is the Radical Left. That is quite a sympathetic proposal. We support the intentions one hundred percent. Violence in close relationships must be combated, because violence in close relationships is deeply serious. Women's killing due to conflict in a close relationship is the main cause of killing in Denmark, and it is fundamental that equality should be taken even more seriously. If you measure the number of victims, there is no doubt that, unfortunately, there is more need for a women's killing package than a camera surveillance package. The proposal will cost 100 million. I would therefore call for the issue to be raised instead in the police negotiations, where I know that the fight against violence in close relations is also an important priority for Mr. Sikandar Siddique, and I would very much like to support him in this debate. Generally speaking, it is a little difficult with expensive proposals such as this before us as a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly, because it may be a little more relevant in a political debate, but we are in the same direction and we would like to write a good report together with the authors of the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, I might have a little bit of doubt as to whether special units in each police group are the right thing to do. For example, Bornholm Police Division, which is Police Division no. 12, also have one? Where's the limit? Do you also need special units for every type of crime? Which ones should you have, and which ones should you not have? I have such a basic belief that it is the police who best know how to organize themselves, how to organize themselves, but if there are other countries that are successful in creating such special units here, or there are some experts who have some ideas, we are very open to looking into it. In the Radical Left, we believe that, in particular, a general education boost in this area will be a good start. Better offers and faster help for victims will also be a right way to go. And there is also a need to uncover the many dark figures, i.e. those who do not report it because they are afraid of their close relationship • a spouse, girlfriend, or whatever it may be. There are many unknown factors in this area that would be good to uncover, and I am also glad that we have recently strengthened the crisis centres. But first of all I would like to thank the alternative for focusing on an important area which the Radical Left also considers to be very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131558	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131602	And thank you to my good friend, the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Before the rapporteur even went to the platform I had already written positive on my list, so thank you very much for that. That is quite right: should it be 12 units, or should it be 1 central unit? We'll have to figure that out together. What is important is that we focus on women's violence and murder, because these figures have not improved over the years. I just want to sign and say thank you very much, and then I look forward, together with the Radical Left in the negotiations, to giving priority to the area of women's violence and murder. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131648	Thank you for putting the Radical Left on the positive list. Then I will also put the alternative on a positive list and together we can all go really well and safe and cozy on winter holidays in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131659	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, and that is why we have come to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207131712	Yesterday, in the Jydske West Coast, one could read that in Sønderborg a man had been held in custody for the murder of his ex-wife. Less than a month ago, another woman in Sønderborg was killed by her ex-husband at least he's in custody for it. It is a life that is lost, it is some children who lose a mother, it is a family that loses a close relative, and everyone is left with a painful loss. And when you look at the statisticians for partner violence and partner killings, the figures are, to say the least, depressing... they don't move. It is still the case that it is women in particular who are killed, raped and stalked that is of course the case for men, but the majority of them are women. And it is actually most dangerous for a woman to stay in her own home where she should be most safe, while for a man it is most dangerous to stay in the nightlife. I think we have to take a fight with that. I think we should move on to that agenda, and we know that prior to a homicide there is often and often both physical and psychological violence and stalking. There have been many signs that something is wrong and where we could have intervened. We have to do that because we have to take this more seriously. Danish Anti-Stalking Association says that there is still a huge problem with obtaining an immediate restraining order when the victim is stalked. This is a major problem, because we know from a study from England that the stalking is just part of the pattern ahead of a partner killing. So there are many ways in which we could have reacted here. We never use the expulsion law in Denmark either. It is the one that means that the violent and the children can stay in the couple's home, so the perpetrator must leave it. When we made the law in Denmark, we also did not do what you do in Austria, where you have an intervention office, which means that you help the victim to maintain his review. In Denmark we just say that if you resume contact, there is nothing more to do about it, because they themselves have voluntarily resumed contact. In Austria, East Jutland Police has tested this with very good results, but we have never implemented it in Denmark, and therefore the law will not work either. Now we are in 2020 and there are still major problems in this area. That is why the SF supports the excellent idea of the Alternative and I can easily say that it is excellent, because we have proposed exactly the same thing. I think it must be the end of the bowl speeches now; now we simply need to move on to this area, and we should all be able to agree on that. I do not think there is any point in eating the victims off with penalties, which are simply not followed up by proper investigations. Having said that, I believe, like so many other rapporteurs here, that the debate is best devoted to the police negotiations, because that is where we take a position on the economy, and I hope that there is support from all parties to do something about this. But I would also like to say to the alternative: if we do not succeed in this in the police negotiations, then I am ready to vote in favour of the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132050	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132053	Thank you to the rapporteur. It would be unfair of me, when we are now discussing the proposal in this Chamber, not to sign for the efforts of the SF rapporteur in the whole debate on women's and women's murders. SF has also been out of it in the past. So I need to say that we are partners in focusing on partner violence and partner killings. And I look forward to having this area prioritised together in the negotiations. Then I am quite sure that when there are so many of us for that, I don't see anyone who is against; all parties have been positive and said that they support this, this will be easy to get through in the negotiations; that is what I think. Should that not happen, we will of course take it up again in the Chamber, but I see it as something that has already been agreed in the negotiations. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132157	Well, I agree very much. I think that there is a bright prospect of making this a reality, and I am very pleased about that on behalf of the victims. There is simply a need for extra effort in this area. So I look forward to the negotiations, including with the alternative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132212	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132216	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I fully agree that this is incredibly important, which is why I was also extremely happy when I was in the negotiations, where we fought for and got funding for the Danish Stalking Center, so we were at least sure that they stayed there. Now the rapporteur has been the legal rapporteur in the past and has a lot of knowledge in this area and a great deal of knowledge of it, and some of what I hear relates to immediate restraining order. What does the rapporteur think is the reason for this? And the same goes for the expulsion law. Well, why don't you use the tools you have in the toolbox? Does the rapporteur know, or does the rapporteur have a sense of why they are not doing so? I know that the rapporteur said something about Austria and the good attempt that had been made, in other words that it was not implemented here. But now that the tools are there, why are they not being used?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132315	In fact, I believe that when it comes to the expulsion law, it is about the implementation of only a small part of the Austrian model. If it is to work, there must also be something that can be done with the perpetrator; there is also a need for action there. And I think that the restraint in exercising it is because it is a drastic step to tell someone to move out of their homes. And what do you do with this person? If we had implemented the Austrian model, we would have had some answers to that. So I guess that's just part of the explanation. And then there is the fact that in Danish law it is so that if the victim and the perpetrator somehow resume contact afterwards, the expulsion will lapse. It does not do so in Austria; it is said that it is therefore important to give the victim a period in which he or she does not have contact with the perpetrator: now that you have taken this step, we help you to maintain that you are not in contact with him or her. And I think that is simply important. Compared to the immediate restraining order, I'm a little more insecure, because I don't really know. However, I could imagine that this is an ignorance of the tool. There is still a need to gain knowledge about what stalking is all about and how important it is to respond to it. These are not just innocent text messages or innocent situations where you stand in front of the victim's workplace, and I think that there is still a need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132448	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132450	Yes, I think the rapporteur is quite right in that respect, precisely in relation to the stalking. I have visited the Danish Stalking Center on several occasions and have also been involved in the advice they have and they are doing a huge job. But does the rapporteur think that, in the forthcoming negotiations, the model should be put back on the ground, that is to say that it is simply there to enter? I don't want to be smart about how many units there are going to be in the police or anything else we have to have a discussion about... but I do agree that we should have acted in this area. But is that the model that can solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132529	At any rate, I think that is part of the solution: to get some skills and some specific knowledge from some resource people who can both see what we can do in relation to the victim, but who also get some tools in relation to the perpetrator, because otherwise this will continue. I am quite sure that it is essential to have both investigative competences and knowledge of how to prevent it and where to look at the problems, which may also be born to us politicians, so that we are better at doing something about this. I think we owe it to the victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132601	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207132610	Thank you. Like several rapporteurs, I would like to thank the Alternative for presenting this very important resolution, which is about strengthening police action and work in relation to partner violence. The alternative suggests that this should be done through specialised police units. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is very important that we focus on violence against women, and in the Enhedslisten we welcome every opportunity to discuss the area and, above all, to discuss how to prevent and stop violence against women. So thank you to the alternative for raising the debate. In the Enhedslisten, we would very much like to help strengthen police competences, both in the prevention and handling of cases of partner violence. The same applies to other forms of crime which mainly affect women, i.e. what one might call gender-based crimes. Be it partner violence, be it rape, be it digital violations, where we can say that the victims are, in other words, mainly women. There is certainly a need for an increase in the competence of the police. We fully agree with the alternative. We also believe that it is a good idea to have a police body that monitors police practices and the extent of partner violence and rape, and, for example, to have a police body that monitors police practices and the extent of partner violence and rape. assists in the implementation of new guidelines and cooperates with relevant organisations in the field. We would very much like to be involved in further work on this in committee, but we would also like to have a discussion on it in this Chamber. At the same time, we believe that the knowledge and competence to deal with cases of partner violence, and rape for that matter, should be part of the basic profession of the police; it simply fills too little in police training. Before the police training was changed, there was actually a lot of time for students at the Police School to talk to the Center for Rape Victims; they could talk to the Rigshospitalet; they could talk to and get training from the various authorities and organisations dealing with cases of partner violence and rape. It doesn't take up much of the police training today. That's what we in the Enhedslisten think is a crazy big problem. And to solve it we see as much as part of the whole solution as a special unit in each police group could be, as is the alternative proposed. We believe that there is a great need to think together, including in these areas, but also to bear in mind that it is different. We do not believe in the Enhedslisten that it is the same effort on the part of the police that is needed in the field of rape as there is in the area of partner violence. In the area of rape, we believe in the Enhedslisten that there should be no special unit. Because in the field of rape, it is so important that all the cops you meet understand you and take you seriously if you report a rape, but we don't see the same problems in the area of partner violence; those cases are simply dealing with the police differently today. And that is why I am not sure that a special unit here is the solution for rape victims, or victims of partner violence for that matter, because a special unit is something we see more could be the solution to the issue of combating hate crimes, which is a debate we also often have in the Assembly. So it is just to say that it is a very good proposal on the part of the Alternative, but I am not sure that it is a special unit in each police circle that is the solution here. But I think that is a very good offer and that is why we in the Enhedslist are very much looking forward to the committee reading. We have also, as has been mentioned earlier, been engaged in some negotiations on the police settlement and the police economy. And it is true that there is, of course, something going on in the negotiating room, and there must be respect for that, namely that we can negotiate in peace there. However, I think it is a good thing that the alternative nevertheless raises the debate here, because I also think we owe it to the public to get into this discussion on how to combat partner violence. So to sum up, we would like to help look at how we increase the specialisation of the police in the field of violence. We are not sure that this is the right way to do it, but we would very much like to continue discussions on this, both in the police conciliation, but also in the committee work on this motion for a resolution tabled by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133038	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133044	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is exactly what we want with the proposal. As I said, is it one special unit, is it 12 special units, or is it a completely different solution? But most importantly, and this is also what I hear the rapporteur say, it is time that we put a stop to women's violence and feminicide and that we prioritise it, and that is also what I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say. So I just want to sign and say thank you. Just as we are united in the whole fight for digital rights, the fight against surveillance, we are now also united in prioritising and lifting this debate, both in the Folketing and in the negotiations. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133128	Thank you very much from someone who has been working in the area of equality for a few years. What are the forms of crime that particularly affect women? There we just have to be honest and say it's partner killing, it's rape, and it's digital violations. So I actually think it's right to have something uplifting in this debate that is so uplifting that it is now taken so seriously by a broad spectrum throughout the Folketing. I am sincerely pleased, both on behalf of my sex, but especially on behalf of the victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133203	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133216	With this resolution, the alternative proposes the creation of specialised units in 12 police circles which should focus on preventing and investigating violence in close relationships. Violence in close relationships is a serious social problem. As the alternative explained in the comments on this motion for a resolution, it is unfortunately something that is taking place too much. I would therefore like to begin by recognising the authors of this motion for a resolution in order to take the initiative. It is a matter of concern to the Conservative People's Party to do something about it. When my own chairman, Søren Pape Poulsen, was Minister of Justice during the previous period, it was among other things. decided to sharpen the punishment for simple violence committed in close relationships. In addition, a separate provision was introduced into the Criminal Code on Psychological Violence. We in the Conservative People's Party are ready to discuss new initiatives to stem violence in close relations, in the context of the forthcoming police settlement that we have started negotiating. However, we are not sure that this resolution is the solution to this serious problem. In addition, we strongly disagree that police officers and money should be collected from border controls. We are in favour of border controls. I don't want to change that. As long as the EU does not defend the external borders, it is important to maintain border controls. So when the proposers propose that special units should be financed through a re-prioritisation of funds from border controls, then we cannot support it at all. That is why we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133407	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133410	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Conservatives. I hear the speech falls into two parts, and I do not really believe that we disagree. It is true that we are saying that the funds from border controls could be reprioritized, but I would like to make it quite clear here that if the Conservatives, together with the alternative, want to find an alternative financing model, we would like to do so too. But the most important thing is that we focus on this, and that is also what I hear the rapporteur say: this is what we need to focus on. I would just like to sign for that, and then I hope that together in the negotiations we can give priority to this area. So thank you very much to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133448	I think that the alternative should take that part in the negotiations on the police conciliation, and then we can discuss that around the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133459	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and it is therefore time to welcome the new citizens and Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133511	Thank you to the alternative for tabling this motion for a resolution. This is a really, very important area which we in the New Citizens' Party fully support in combating. Whether this should be done in the way indicated in the proposal, i.e. that special units should be created in the individual police circles, we are rather sceptical about. When a relatively large proportion of the violence, the perilous crime committed, is committed in close relationships, we in New Citizens believe that it should be an essential part of the training of all police officers and a special focus for all police officers involved in criminal matters to have this area included in their daily work. In relation to funding, in other words a re-prioritisation of border controls, we are strongly opposed. We are very much in favour of protecting borders and of keeping track of who comes into the country, and we would like to see border controls extended to include those who travel out of the country, which is why we cannot, of course, support that part. So the intentions we support, the practicalization of this with special units in each circle, we think we are the wrong way to go, and the funding we also disagree with. So on that basis it will be the thumb down to the motion for a resolution, but the thumb up to the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133704	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. As I also said to the Conservatives, the alternative is willing to look at an alternative financing model. At least that is not what prevents us from prioritising this. Then I hear the rapporteur say that the intention and purpose are good, and at this time of Friday I will seize that opportunity and then say that okay, now we have to go to negotiations, and then we have to give priority to this area, and whether we do it with units or in some other way, I look forward to debating. However, I hear that new citizens are also positive in terms of their intentions and positive in relation to the priority to be given to the fight against women's violence and murders. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133747-2	New citizens are very positive about this. One of the areas mentioned in the motion for a resolution here is rape. We know that of the rape crimes that are committed and reported there are unfortunately not so many who are convicted, but there are very many who are reported, there are also many who are not reported, many who are committed in close relationships, and if we are going to talk about something that I know we are not entirely agreed on, then there is a very, very large proportion of those who are raped, also in close relationships, who are exposed to it in what should be said, families who have a non-western background. So I think that when we're looking at this, it's both about looking at the prevention, but also looking at the cause, and then looking at how we get it upset and prevented, and how we get the punishment done, so that it's not something that spreads in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133841	Although New Citizens are now waving it somewhere where we disagree, I still want to keep the positive in this debate and the fact that we want women's violence and the murder of women alive, and then just say that regardless of religion, skin colour and whoever is doing it, it is time that we now focus on women's violence and feminicide. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133908	However, it is a pity that we disagree on women's violence and murder as soon as it starts to be about foreigners. If we have someone with a minority background representing about 6-7 per cent. of the population, but who have an over-representation which means that among rapists they represent more than 20%, we have a real problem there, and if you want to solve the problems, you have to look at where it is, the problems mainly arise, i.e. find the large groups, find out how to take action to prevent it and prevent it, but also, of course, ensure that those who commit these crimes are punished. So I think it is perfectly reasonable and entirely legitimate to look at the facts, including in relation to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133950	Then there is a brief comment from Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207133952	Thank you. However, I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund's point of view, and I am rarely in favour of the fact that we must have the facts. That is why I am curious to hear when we talk about violence in close relations, also called partner violence, even if there is evidence that there is an over-representation of non-western immigrants in the statistics. 'Cause I think that's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134019	After all, we have evidence that a very large proportion of the perilous crime committed and for which people are convicted is committed in close relationships. We also have evidence that when we talk about rape, for example, and it is typically a man who is attacking a woman, there is a violent overrepresentation. The Ministry of Justice conducted an investigation a few years ago, I think it was in 2017 and at that time, and now I can't exactly figure it out, but as I remember it, it was approx. 6% of the population, who had a non-Western background, and they stood for, again as I remember, 23 per cent. of the rape crimes committed. So this shows that there are some issues that we need to look at. I think that if you do not say what to say without prejudice, and look at where it is done and how we can take action, both in relation to preventive work, but also in relation to breaking it up and punishing the criminals, then we risk hitting wrong with the efforts we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134117	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134117-2	Well, then, I would just ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to use without prejudice the magnification of the statistics on violence in close relationships, partner violence, which is, of course, something other than rape. I am well aware of the study to which the rapporteur refers, but this proposal is specifically about violence in close relations, and I certainly have not, but it may be that Mrs Pernille Vermund has seen some evidence that it should be a special thing for people with a non-Western background. Unfortunately, I would say, it is a fair Danish thing that violence is taking place in the home, and we must have a fight with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134154	Well, during partner violence rape is also included, and rape is unfortunately often committed among two people who know each other and have either had a sexual relationship, is in a relationship or where one thinks that the other wants something etc. So when we talk about close relationships, rape is part of it, which is why I think it is quite appropriate to bring it in. We could also have taken physical violence, where we could look at what it looks like in the homes of these minority environments, and whether there is more violence there. And I'd love to take a look at that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134230	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134242	Thank you for the floor. Patriarchal violence is a very serious problem. This has been documented a great many times, and I believe that there will have been a great deal of gain for society by having a far, far more restrictive attitude to patriarchal violence than you have today. It is also an area where we still need more documentation, because in some cases it seems that the patriarchal violence is experienced as legitimate by those who practice it, and in other cases it is experienced as illegitimate, so people do things that they actually think are illegitimate themselves. And these are two different things that you have to have a different view of, although it may not matter to the victim. So we support this initiative from the Alternative. We think it is a good idea to look more seriously at patriarchal violence. But we also agree with what several rapporteurs have said about the fact that there is now a coincidence of unfortunate circumstances which means that the police negotiations are under way and that this discussion must therefore be taken into account in the police negotiations, because then we will have a comprehensive look at the police economy, the police's task-solving and how to organize these matters in the most appropriate police profession. However, we are pleased that the alternative addresses this issue of patriarchal violence and we fully recognise that it is a very, very big problem. So thank you for the initiative. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134439	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Henrik Dahl. This is unfortunately the case with the police negotiations. That is also one of the reasons why we did not draw it, because it is just so under-priority, and now we were given an opportunity to express our opinion on it and to debate and talk about it. We think that is needed. I hear the rapporteur from LA saying that this is a priority and that this is something we want to address in the negotiations. So I just want to sign and say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134512	I'm glad. It has also been a personal wish for me for a long time to adopt a more stringent approach to patriarchal violence in general. It has been politically difficult to get through with it in the past. I sense there's a little more movement now, so it's very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134534	Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134538	Thank you for the floor. I know that the rapporteur weighs his words on a gold weight, so when the rapporteur uses the words patriarchal violence, I also know that the rapporteur has thoughts on specifically using those words. Against this background, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has the view that cultures with more patriarchal oppression or violence lead to more patriarchal oppression and violence in our society, or whether it does not matter how our society develops.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134613	I think I will make a different distinction. What is really the crucial question is whether violence is legitimate or illegitimate. Generally speaking, violence in close relationships is totally illegitimate, and it is so sad that people can get into situations where they do things they themselves think are illegitimate. It can occur in a lot of situations. Of course, we must look at this seriously, because we should not do things that we ourselves think are illegitimate, even though it is tragic that it can happen. But what is, of course, a particular problem is violence which the perpetrator sees as legitimate, and I think that this must be looked at very seriously. I myself took part in drafting the Parallel Society Package during the last parliamentary term. In fact, I wanted there to be stronger initiatives against the violence that is seen as legitimate, because it is much harder to get rid of it when it is seen as legitimate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134721	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134722	I just have a curious question about it: what did the Liberal Alliance have of concrete proposals like this? Maybe it could be something that brought us on, now that the collection here is another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134738	In this way, I agree with what many rapporteurs have said: improving police professionalism and improved cooperation between social services, schools and the police; and, of course, also some penalties which reflect the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134756	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. There is no further brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is why we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207134811	Thank you for the floor. And thank you very much for your strong support for the proposal, or at least for the intention of what I sense in the Chamber. That is why I am very much looking forward to the fact that in the police conciliation we are now seriously addressing women's violence and murders, because this has long been an under-priority area and we need to turn the curve now. Violence in close relationships is a serious problem and, in particular, the gender imbalance in violence requires action. The number of women exposed to violence in close relationships has remained virtually unchanged over the last 15 years. It is estimated that 38,000 women and 19,000 men were exposed to physical partner violence in 2017. Psychic partner violence is about twice as widespread. Women are exposed more often than men to both physical and psychological partner violence, stalking and digital violations. At the same time, violence against women is typically harsher, while studies estimate that the proportion of men exposed to physical partner violence has been increasing since 2015. Family crimes have traditionally been difficult cases with lower reporting rates, failing authority focus and low conviction rates. These include cases of stalking, threats, psychological, physical and sexual violence, rape and restraining proceedings. The cases are characterised by a gender imbalance, where the victims are mainly women and the perpetrators are mostly men. At the same time, these are cases that have not been sufficiently focused by the authorities, despite the violent personal costs that violence has for the individual and for society. In line with the Minister of Justice, the proposers believe that there is a political obligation to help the victims by providing the police with the means to strengthen preventive practices, according to inter alia: Answers to Question No 1 180, alm. Part II, of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. That is why the proposers propose the creation of a central specialised unit in the police. The proposal proposes the creation of special police units in 12 police circles which have specialised knowledge and work interdisciplinaryly with the focus of preventing and investigating violence in close relationships, including monitoring police circles' practices and the extent of psychological and physical violence in close relationships. The specialised unit will help to improve police investigative tools in the specific cases and ensure the necessary assistance for the victims of violence, and prosecution will be carried out by the perpetrators. At the same time, the unit should focus on preventing violence, for example through risk analysis based on events. The specialised unit must also include practices from other countries where good experience has been gained. For example, the Norwegian practice where suspected perpetrators are sought out at home should a current or former partner move to a crisis center. Finally, the proposed specialised unit must have analytical competence so that it can continuously monitor police circles' practices in the field and act as a body of knowledge and sparring for the other police staff. The creation of the special unit should therefore be seen as a general increase in the competence of the elementary police work of the circuit. Ladies and gentlemen, too many women are subjected to violence. Of the 536 women's killings that have been committed, 300 have been committed by partners. We have seen several cases where it is the same man who sends more women to shelters, and far too few of them are convicted. The time has come for us together to give priority to the fight against violence and the killing of women. It's time for us to act. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135242	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Like the rapporteur, when he was on the platform, I will now also write the alternative on my positive list, that is, on parties that are involved in intensifying the fight and the fight against violence in close relations. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that 12 special units are not necessarily the only way to go, because one might fear that if expertise is distributed in 12 different places, specialization might be watered down, so that it is not as specialised as we would actually like. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could support the proposals of the Radicals, which I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, on prevention, earlier and faster action, crisis centres and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135329	The alternative is very open to the proposals made by the Radical Left. For the alternative, it's important that we get to grips with this taboo subject. We don't dare talk about it. 38,000 women are subjected to violence, but where is the debate? There are more and more women going to the shelter and often it is the same man who sends them to the shelter, but where is the debate? 300 out of 536 women's killings are committed by a partner, but where is our focus? That is why the alternative welcomes any proposals and initiatives that may exist. The important thing is that we now give priority to this area, the important thing is that we take it seriously, and the important thing is that we reverse the statistics so that women can live again without violence in close relationships. That is really, really crucial to the alternative, so we are very open to all the initiatives that may be there. The important thing is that we take it up in the police settlement now and get it priority. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135438	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135455	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207135520	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that I can only agree with the proposers that the starting point for new arrivals is that they must support themselves. The demand for self-reliance is closely linked to the government's and a broad majority in the Parliament's desire to pursue a strict immigration policy, where we have control of the influx so that we can keep up with integration. When it comes to foreigners who have a need for protection, the government will work hard to get them to work as soon as possible. Of course. For us, the principle of right and duty is absolutely crucial. Those who can must also contribute to society, so if you are unemployed and receive benefits, you must, as a starting point, be available for the labour market. This applies to everyone in this country, and it is not least crucial that we all meet new arrivals with that demand and formulate it very clearly. If you can work, you also have a duty to find a job so that you actively contribute to the society that you benefit from rather than being a passive recipient of benefits. That is why we in the government are working on a proposal that all newcomers and immigrants with an integration need should contribute with normal efforts in a normal working week. We must move away from a logic based on benefits and to a starting point where you are entitled to a full month's benefit, and we must instead move to a work logic where you meet with a requirement to contribute. The starting point must be that you are reimbursed for the effort you make, so that it corresponds to the logic of an ordinary Danish workplace. That is the starting point. And we are looking at the details and specific content of such a proposal. I also agree with the authors that each foreigner has a personal responsibility for his or her own integration into Denmark. Society then has a responsibility to support and make demands, but if the individual cannot find a job, the public must make available an offer that helps to promote integration and the path to self-sufficiency. At the same time, I would like to see the offers we make as much as possible as a job and everyday life in a workplace, and that is why I think that the tripartite agreement on basic integration training, the Igu, is an excellent idea. It is an idea that has led to far more new arrivals now in jobs with upgrading instead of activation. We should try to build on that. In the 2020 financial law agreement, we have therefore committed ourselves to discussing an extension of the target group with the social partners, and hopefully even more can benefit from the possibility of igu as a stepping stone to the Danish labour market. If you complete basic integration training, it also entitles you to a daily allowance, and so basic integration training is also one of the ways to get more people into self-paid insurance against unemployment, which is what the proposers also want. I am particularly pleased to see that, in the last six months, more women have started a course of basic integration education, because we need more immigrant women in employment, as we are still lagging far behind. So all in all, I agree with the goal of getting more focus on aliens' self-examination instead of meeting them as clients in a system, and I have also explained some of the actions we will take to change that particular. When it comes to the proposalers' very specific solutions, we do not agree with the model, because there will be foreigners who, although we make demands, cannot find a job themselves, and here, in my view, we must meet them with a requirement to contribute, but also provide offers and reimbursements for participation, which they will realistically be able to cope with. Here we cannot just remove all opportunities for public support after 3 months and leave integration to themselves. I fear that it will lead to poverty and to parallel societies. In addition, it is considered that the model of the proposers, as described, would be contrary to the Constitution. It follows from Paragraph 75 of the Constitution that the public authorities are obliged to ensure a minimum level of subsistence for persons who cannot feed themselves or theirs and whose subsistence is not the responsibility of any other person, however, against subjecting themselves to the obligations imposed by the law. This applies both to Danes and to foreigners. Nor can the proposal be implemented without conflicting with our obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights, for there is a ban on discrimination in relation to, among other things. social benefits based on national legislation. A rule that foreigners are not entitled to receive any kind of public social security benefits would therefore constitute discrimination on the basis of the nationality of these persons, and therefore, of course, we cannot support a proposal which is not legally feasible. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposal that all foreigners should take out compulsory insurance against unemployment. In fact, I do not disagree with the fact that unemployed people have to insure themselves against unemployment. In fact, the government is in complete agreement with the proposers of this, and that is also why we have removed the residence requirement for the right to unemployment benefit introduced by the previous government, because the residence requirement actually meant that newly arrived citizens, both Danes and foreigners, lost the prize by joining an unemployment fund. We must, in fact, stick to a broadly based benefit system which, in solidarity, ensures that everyone, including newly arrived foreigners, has an opportunity to insure against unemployment. It is an important pillar of the whole system we call the Danish model • flexicurity system. That system is right and fair, and it ensures equal conditions on the labour market. In that case, the benefit system already contains an employment requirement which helps to ensure that foreigners who come to Denmark are not just entitled to benefit in this way. After all, it requires that you have been in employment for some time. So, to conclude with what I started with, I would like to say that the principle of right and duty is central to us, and we are therefore working to have the benefits with which we meet newcomers changed, from the current performance logic to a logic of contributing in a normal working week, 37 hours, but for both political and legal reasons we cannot support this proposal from the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140111	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief comments, first to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140116	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the comment. The Minister argues that it would be contrary to the Constitution to require foreigners who come here to be self-supporting within three months. But the fact is that, when it comes to all other foreigners who come from all other countries and on all other conditions than migrants, we are talking about what is now called refugees, that is, people who have come through safe countries and come here and get refugee status, are demanding self-reliance, and it is indeed a prerequisite for the basis of residence in Denmark that you support yourself. So we are already expelling foreigners under all other conditions that do not support themselves. Can the Minister not confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140201-2	In any case, I can confirm that, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, nor do we have the right to vote in local elections. In the rules governing the association of spouses, a bank guarantee is required precisely in order to ensure that, for example, a foreign spouse loses his or her job and cannot be supported by his or her Danish spouse, a security is provided which the municipality can raise. It is precisely because it is not possible to reject just one hundred per cent that foreigners can show up at the job centre and receive a social benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140242	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140243	But this also means that it is possible to impose requirements on foreigners who come here that they must be self-supporting within three months as a prerequisite for obtaining a residence permit in Denmark. So that it is unconstitutional that a condition for a residence permit in Denmark is that you are self-supporting within three months, is not, of course, linked to the legislation that we have today in all the areas that do not have to do with refugees. Having said that, for decades we have had this goal, which the Minister and the government have also now, that foreigners should support themselves, and that everything has been tried out, and yet we are paying 35 billion. kr. to non-western immigrants and descendants. Last year, the Danish Employers' Association showed that one out of three non-western immigrants was not in work. Well, you've tried a lot, and you haven't succeeded. Why not just say that it is necessary for you to be in this country to support yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140334	To begin with, I would like to say that I do not think you can quite compare refugees with foreign spouses. For when a foreign spouse comes to Denmark, we ask that the Danish bank guarantee of actually DKK 100,000 should allow the municipality to withhold money if it should happen that the foreign spouse ends up raising money at the job centre. But we cannot say that to a refugee because refugees are given a residence basis on the basis that they need protection, not because someone here in Denmark is making a bank guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140406	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140412	I think that is an incredibly strange argument. In other words, the migrants referred to by the Minister as refugees, we agree with some who have travelled through many safe countries to come here, and I think it is quite natural to make demands on them. Our policy is that all foreigners should be self-supporting. However, the Minister himself mentions this with foreigners who cannot fend for themselves, and the Minister is worried that it will end up in some ghetto formation etc. But the fact is that we have all these ghetto formations in advance and that we have a very large proportion of people with a particularly non-western background living on transfer income. It might as well be if you removed this financial incentive, which a lot of these people have, that they would then go to another country. Does the Minister not recognize that if you removed the support they receive from the Danish state today, many of them would go somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140514	Maybe we're not that far apart. For what is our starting point is that when people have been granted asylum in Denmark they say that yes, you are entitled to protection, and now you are granted a residence permit as a refugee. As a starting point, you must find yourself a job, and if you cannot, the Danish society will make a 37-hour integration programme available to you. It may be an integration basic education, and it may also be an integration programme consisting of some other elements, but it is certainly a place where you show up in the morning and where you come home in the afternoon, and if you come 2 hours late, you lose benefits for 2 hours. It is the same philosophy that I can hear that the questioner is also a little interested in, namely that there should not be passive services from which we should then push people out of the apartments, but that we say that you can, as a starting point, just participate in an integration programme and that in return you get paid to participate. So we reward people for doing the right thing instead of punishing people for doing the wrong thing. Because today we can sanction people if they do not participate in all possible activation, but they must be heard first and foremost by one and another bureaucracy. We need a low-practical educational carrot where, at the end of the week or month, they can see that they have now received less income, that is, less money because they have not participated in the programme that has been made available.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140619	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140620	The last part of the minister's answer is actually for me to see just about saying that we remove all the bureaucracy, all the very, very troublesome, and then make it completely simple and say that if you come to Denmark as a foreigner, you must support yourself, and that if you do not support yourself, it is not here that you should be. I think that is quite reasonable. The Minister himself also says that in this way he agrees that integration is a personal responsibility, but yet the Minister advocates that the Danish state should make all sorts of strange integration offers available. Doesn't the Minister just acknowledge that it's quite okay to say that you have to support yourself and that integration is a personal responsibility end?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140706	There are two things. Paragraph 1: We must abide by the Constitution, which says that if you cannot support yourself and yours, then society steps in against submission to obligations. As a second point, I think it's a very sensible policy to say to people: Find a job and if you can't find a job, it's an honest case if you don't speak Danish and don't know anyone, then we have a program for you, which is a normal working day where you have to participate. It can be a useful job, it can be Danish education, it can be anything, but it is at least that you show up and participate, and if you do not participate, there is no service. I think that is an excellent policy. At least it's better than asking people to sit at home until the municipality calls with an activation program.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140744	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This is how we proceed with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur on the floor comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140801	Thanks to New Citizens for tabling this motion for a resolution, so that we in the Social Democratic Party, together with you, have the opportunity to almost again be tempted to repeat our view of the benefit issue. As I said earlier here from the platform, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that we need to look at more considerations when discussing benefits. The benefits must strike a balance which is both about maintaining a strict immigration policy, but which also sends a signal of right and duty and ensures that we do not send children into poverty. I share your view that we live with the consequences of decades of failed immigration and integration policies, and I also share the opinion of the proposers that when you come to Denmark, you should contribute to Danish society, and that is what you do by going to work. There is no point in starting to meet people with a logic of passive support, as the Minister also mentioned earlier, and we therefore propose that immigrants on public support should be activated as soon as possible. If you don't show up, there's no service. This should be the principle of a new system. At the same time, we have a society based on the fact that public assistance can be obtained if you cannot support yourself. It is even in the Constitution, as the Minister explained to us, but it is a rescue crane that should not be used permanently. Therefore, in December, the government set up a Service Commission to rethink the cash assistance system, and the government put forward as a clear principle for the work of the Commission that the right and duty must be a cornerstone of the new system. Against this background, I can inform you that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140947	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207140952	Thank you for the floor. I think we have come one step along the road, all the time that the Social Democrats recognise, after all, that we cannot meet people when they come here with an offer that they can be on passive support, and then say that we will probably find out all about it. So far, so good. I also acknowledge that the Social Democratic Party has this initiative on the way to trying to get people activated and saying: In order for you to get anything in pay from the public service, the requirement is that you are in employment. So far, so good. Then we come to the third. When the rapporteur speaks of this, we are again talking about activating them, and what is the basis for this proposal is that we turn it around and say: when you come here, you get an opportunity to find a foothold, and when you have found that foothold, it is up to you to be in employment and to support yourself. And yes, that could also mean going down to the municipality and asking: What do you have that I can order? But we are going to turn it around and say that it must be the people who come here who activate themselves and not us who have to activate them. Does the rapporteur not recognise that this is a very different way of meeting people in cultural terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141107	Yes, I accept that. After all, there is something that suggests that we have a cultural challenge here that we need to make up for in order to get there. Today this is the case, and Mrs Pernille Vermund is aware that 7 out of 10 women from Lebanon, Syria and Iraq are on public breadwinners. This can be seen from Danmarks Statistik's • Immigrants in Denmark 2019 • who came in November. This underlines the fact that there is some cultural challenge, because this group is over-represented or perhaps rather under-represented in the employment system. And therefore there is a need for a basic new system, where the requirement for the individual is that you show up and contribute with the effort that is arranged for you, otherwise you will not be paid out any money. And that's the basic principle of the 37 hours we're talking about. Then you can in principle just show up 15 hours a week, but then you will only be paid out for 15 hours a week if you are unable to find a job and are in the activation effort instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141208	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141210	However, I know it is already the case that a prerequisite for obtaining cash benefits or integration benefits is that you are available for the labour market, that you are trying to find a job, that you are in some kind of activation process. So the question here will be whether the Social Democratic Party is ready to drag these people into benefits, even when there are children, and also when there is everything else, or whether you, as we advocate, should turn it over and say: it is your responsibility; it is your responsibility as a family; there is a boom, and there is plenty to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141248	Mrs Pernille Vermund is right about this, that is to say that there is something wrong with the system, as it has been operating for years now under successive governments. Dansk Arbejdsforening (Danish Employers' Association) carried out an analysis in December and we discussed it earlier here in the Chamber which showed how it looked with the activation. And it showed that 2,000 non-western cash aid recipients had not been activated for six months, and it was, as I recall, the months from March to August last year that had been spoken to here. And that just makes it clear that too many people are going under the radar and receiving these benefits, even though they are not doing their job. So there is a need for something basic new.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141327	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141330	Thank you. And yes, something basic is wrong. Because it is quite right, as has been said here earlier, that it is because for too many years in Denmark we have turned it around and said that it is our responsibility as a state to help. No, it is our responsibility as a state to secure Denmark and secure Danish citizens, and if you come here as a foreigner, you have to fend for yourself, deal with yourself once you have found a foothold. I think that is a very healthy principle. Now I noticed earlier that the rapporteur said this because we No, we If their parents choose to stand outside the labour market, do not learn Danish and do not adapt to the society of which they are part, it is their fault and their responsibility, if there are any children who are unfortunately affected, and that is what we must stick to. Does the rapporteur not basically believe that the whole premise on which the rapporteur bases this is wrong? Because it constantly places Denmark and the state responsible for the fact that there are some people who simply do not take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141435-2	No, but I recognise that this is what makes this discussion very difficult. Mrs Mette Thiesen is right in saying that it is not a question of us simply being able to raise benefits when you are on passive support because you have children and then everything is going to be okay. It is clear that then we maintain some people who were going to contribute to the labour market that they can go around at home, and according to the figures I referred to earlier from the Danish Employers' Association, there are therefore too many who are allowed to do so already now. But on the other hand, I also think there is another consideration, and that is to try to shield some of the children who get caught up in this and get a harder start to life because there is too much difference between their opportunities and those of their peers. How to find that balance, I fully acknowledge that is extremely difficult, and that is why a Commission on Performance has now been set up to try to think creatively. I think it's a Gordian knot or a Columbus egg, or whatever you need to find. Well, it's huge dilemmas and difficult things because they go in different directions, and that's what makes this so complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141534	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141536	To be honest, I actually think it's pretty simple. It is very simple to say that if you are a foreigner in Denmark, after 3 months you must ensure your own support and your own family's support. I fully agree with the rapporteur that because of cultural differences it is mostly the case of people from non-western cultures, i.e. people who have Islam with them, their children have different conditions, and that is really sad, especially for some of the girls who live under social control and all sorts of other things. We can agree on that, but what we are talking about here is employment, and there I think it is a very healthy principle to say to people: you must support yourselves, it is your responsibility, and otherwise you must find another place to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141620	I just think that what is going to be missing, if one completely buys the premise that it is easy to solve this by simply removing benefits after a period, is that there is an inequality that one then does not relate to, and it will also hit all well-functioning citizens in Denmark. It will not only affect those who have reduced their benefits. It's gonna hit everyone else, too. Whether you like it or not, and whether you think it is wrong in principle, it will hit everyone else. This can be seen in the countries of the world which are characterised by a very high degree of inequality. There is more crime and there is much greater insecurity for the majority population too, and that balance must also be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141700	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207141717	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I basically think there are some very sensible ideas behind the New Citizens' motion for a resolution to limit public services to foreigners. It is our very clear position that foreigners must, as a starting point, support themselves and contribute to the community as long as they are part of Danish society. I am also absolutely convinced that if, even if you only have a temporary period in Danish society, you are active during that period, then you are also much more effective when you have to return and rebuild the country from which you have been sought during the period of strife there. Public support must and must be a temporary measure, as the aim must always be to get foreigners into work, and therefore the amount of benefits must also ensure that it is better worth working when you are in Denmark. That was among other things. That is why, at the time, we introduced the integration service and when it was called the integration service, it was also about the fact that we in the Left are of the clear conviction that the level of benefits means something for the incentive to become part of the working community and therefore also for the integration of foreigners into Denmark. That is why it is quite wrong when the government has chosen to go along that road with the left, where 300 million are spent. kr. to increase benefits to predominantly unemployed immigrant families. No one can be in any doubt that we in the Left would also like all foreigners to be in work after 3 months and therefore not receive public transfer income. Indeed, we would like them to get to work as soon as possible. Although the benefits of integration and the Igu have been successful, we must note that far too many foreigners are still outside the labour market. If you look at the proportion of women from the Middle East, in particular, who raise social benefits in Denmark, then there is an extraordinary amount of work ahead of us in this area. We have an obligation to help them. It's in our constitution. The best aid is always aid for self-help, and when it comes to this, we in the Left also think it is quite reasonable that we live in a country where the community is taking care of those who, for example, are in a position to do so. For a period of their lives are outside the labour market, so be it. This applies to everyone who is legally resident in Denmark, and that is why, of course, it also applies to a group which has a residence permit in Denmark, even if it is a group in which we see major problems when it comes to having them anchored in the working community, but it must never become a sleeping pillow, because it must therefore be the ambition that as many as possible, who are in Denmark, provide for themselves regardless of their ethnic background. But having said that, we cannot support the motion for a resolution for the above reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142019	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. First of all, a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142025	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for supporting the intentions behind the proposal. In fact, I think we have told the Danes out there before the elections that there is a large majority in the Danish Parliament supporting these intentions. The big dilemma is that it has not yet been possible to crack the code on how to get these people to work. In other words, the rapporteur himself is a member of a party and rapporteur of a party which has tried with the benefit of integration and 225-hour rule, and everything has been done, and yet it is a very, very high proportion that is outside the labour market, in a boom. This is the starting point for New Citizens saying: let's turn this around. Let us say: It is a prerequisite for you to be able to obtain a residence permit in Denmark that you support yourself. So we should not give the residence permit with a lot of conditions and then say that you are going out because you do not support yourself. But let's say, when you get here, it is a prerequisite that after 3 months you are self-supporting. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there could be some logic in meeting people with such demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142136	Actually, I do. Now I have only heard such sketches of the government's proposal that you should meet some additional demands to be anchored in some sort of working community when you come to Denmark, and I have moments when I hear it, where I think it will be exciting to see it in practice; there are also times when I think that I would have thought of it myself at the time, but that must be the case sometimes. I think that there are some ideas in it which are very important because a clue is being created, in which we retain the fine principles we have in the constitution, to help each other, while at the same time meeting people who come to Denmark, with some expectations that here you will support yourself if you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142227	But unfortunately, even in the government's first thoughts and sketches of this new system, it is said that special considerations apply if they are families with children. We have seen this now in relation to child benefit, which had to be raised, so that we are more careful that families with children should not be affected financially by the fact that they do not go to work. And that leaves us with the same problem that we have had for decades, namely this fear of saying: if you can, you must, and if you can, but do not, then this is not where you belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142306	Well, I think there is a great challenge in getting people coming to Denmark to understand that the institutions we use to help us, while we are active in the labour market, etc., must also be used here. It will help their children, and it will help them to be better anchored in Denmark. These are also some of the ideas behind some of the principles that underpin our strategy against parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142337	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142341	Thank you so much. As the rapporteur himself says, he must have been trying for incredibly many years to turn a little, patch a little and make some different moves. Nothing's worked. We just have to recognise that we are faced with a group of people who have no incentive to enter the labour market because they can always see that there is an opportunity for them to be supported by the Danish state. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the increased benefits to families of foreigners, and I can only say there again that it is really a pity that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party did not sign our article 42, which specifically allowed this resolution to be put to a referendum. However, as the rapporteur says, we tend to help each other in Denmark, yes, because it must be for Denmark's sake, in the Danish community. It is not, however, a question of opening up the door to all people from all parts of the world who do not necessarily share the values or principles that we have in Denmark, to be able to come here and just enjoy it. Does the rapporteur not think that it is quite a sensible principle that we should ensure what is good for Denmark in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142448	Yes, of course. But the very term that we ensure what is good for Denmark is a rather broad term, and I have to arrest it here with nothing has worked. Because in our period of responsibility for this area, we made the proportion of women with other ethnic backgrounds anchored in the labour market increase by 100%. It was from a very low level to a not high enough level, I admit, but it's just to say that something worked, and it started to work especially when we got a look at what ended up being the integration benefit. Well, it's poison in this area that this government has chosen to roll back our policy in this particular area, because here we finally had something that worked and seemed to be very, very effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142541	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142543	The rapporteur's party had the opportunity to help stop it, but you would not. Oh, enough about that! Well, we can see it, because an analysis by the Danish Employers' Association shows that 1 out of 3 non-Western immigrants in 2018 was on public support, and by comparison it was only about 1 out of 6 Danes. And as I said before, a great many minor adjustments and patch solutions have been made, and many of those who have come into employment are, after all, some who are still receiving subsidies from the state, so not everyone who is either in education or what to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142627	I mean, I think that the strongest incentive you can give people is an economic incentive. That's how far I agree. The economic incentive alone, because of the constitution, cannot be 0 DKK, but it must be low, and it should not be so low that you go hungry to bed, but it must be so low that you get up and think: There is such an advantage for my family and my surroundings if I go to work that you do so. That is why the lower integration performance was a very good idea, which is why it is so bad that the government has chosen to roll it back with the left wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142702	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I therefore welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142713	Thank you very much. Since our rapporteur could not be here, I have been honoured to be here today. It is very good that new citizens are putting forward a proposal on which we can support it. And this is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party have been working for for so many years. When we founded the Danish People's Party in 1995, the whole reason was the policy of foreigners. So it is really nice that there have been other parties who can make proposals which are very similar to what we ourselves have from proposals. Fortunately, as time has passed, we have moved many of the other parties to understand why immigration policy is important. Religiously and culturally, Denmark is changing and away from what has been Denmark. And economically, immigration from the Muslim world has been a major disaster every year, with immigrants from the Third World costing us 35 billion. kr. So it's more than the total price for six new super hospitals. At the same time as immigration costs billions, the Danes must see that there are other places that lack money. After all, I am a health rapporteur in everyday life, and I can see what we lack in terms of health care for the sick, or that the elderly cannot get the right help, or that in other ways we can see that there is a huge difference. We can see that in the municipalities they are lacking money for many of our social and health areas. But we are required to do so, for example. must take care of the teeth of future refugees who have not been maintained for many years. And it's not unusual that it's an amount of $40,000, $50,000, $60,000. for a single person paid by Denmark. And that money goes only one place from the Danes. So I can only say from up here that we are happy to support this proposal. Of course, you have to be able to earn your own money if you as a foreigner want to live in Denmark. Everything else is a mockery of the Danes who have built the welfare society and the foreigners who can manage to behave properly and earn their own money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207142938	Just a short thousand thanks to DF for supporting the proposal. When you are sitting in this Chamber today, you cannot help thinking that if those groups in the Chamber who spend more time standing and talking than listening had actually been as observant in the years when DF fought this fight, it could be that we had stood somewhere else. But thanks for backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143006	Well, thank you. We are also pleased that we are now two parties, so I hope we can work together to make some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143014	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143026	Thank you. This is not the first time we have a debate on this subject. But let me just start by saying that when I was elected to the Folketing, I promised with my signature that I would abide by the constitution of the kingdom. I know that all the members of the Folketing, including the members of the National Assembly of New Citizens, have put a signature in the same place as I do. The Constitution does not require people to be Danish citizens, and therefore Paragraph 75 of the Constitution also applies to foreigners. So I am rather surprised that the motion for a resolution here deals with a constitutional issue rather than a constitutional amendment, because if that is what one really wanted, that is to say to change the constitution, that is what was to be proposed. Then I would like to say that I can be really tired of us having a black vision in a debate like this. Let us take facts over fear, let us legislate on the backs of facts rather than fear and false images. If you look at the facts, then not Western immigrants and descendants have delivered 44 per cent. of the growth in employment that has taken place between 2013 and 2018. The employment rate has increased by 2.8 percentage points for this group alone from 2018 to 2019. It is three times as much as if you dive into the employment rate of ethnic Danes. If you look at the motivation for getting a job, it is that in a large study from Als Research you have asked the question: How important is it for you to have a job so that you can support yourself? There's 85% here. of the non-western immigrants the answer that it is very important that it applies to 75%. Danes. Is there any untapped potential here? Yes, there is. Up to the year 2040 there will be 300,000 fewer Danes of working age, while there will be 260,000 more elderly people of 80+. I hope no one expects the 80+ elderly to be the breadwinners. That is why it is extremely important that we take action with activation and with an effort to ensure that everyone who can get into employment, too, and then it is the employment effort that we have to look at. I would really like to be a part of that, because I have the expectation that if you are yellow, green, white or brown you will contribute if you can. It's good for you, for your own economy, and it's really good for the kids to have a role model. The Radical Left is against the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143347	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It is precisely the case that it is Danes and also those who are 80+ who are helping to finance this. So it is not a joke when we get figures from the Ministry of Finance that say that non-western immigrants and descendants cost Danish society 35 billion. kr. in a single year. It is not a joke when we have employment statistics which show that there is a gigantic over-representation of non-western immigrants and descendants of people outside the labour market, despite the fact that we have a boom; despite the fact that there are companies out there crying out for labour; despite the fact that we have a huge public sector which is constantly hiring new people. The Radical Left has just helped to raise benefits for foreigners. That is what we are doing, while at the same time saying that it has actually gone well over the past few years. What's happened? We haven't come to the finish line, and we haven't even had the basket broken. But what has actually happened is that the benefits were tightened up, that is to say, moving a little towards what the new citizens are proposing. That is what is now being praised and recognised. So the results of this are commended, while at the same time adding votes to do the opposite. Well, that's high-level hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143509	We did not just put votes to raise the benefits, I would say to Mrs Pernille Vermund; we demanded it. And we did, because there are families, Danish as well as foreign, who have children who grow up in what is called poverty. And poverty does not just start in the first year, but actually gets into adult life in a way that allows you to have a level of education that is lower than otherwise; has a link with the labour market that is lower than otherwise. And so there's a huge potential we're missing out on. In fact, we do not want there to be children in Denmark who grow up in poverty. It is not worthy of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143546	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143547	However, it is quite crazy that the rapporteur does not understand that if you increase the benefits, you will be countering what the rapporteur has just said and highlighting the results, namely the results of a period in which the benefits were reduced. We see very few results from a reduction in benefits. With a snap, the Radical Left decides to say: it is a requirement for us that the benefits should be higher. And we do well to note this at a time when we are experiencing a boom; well to note at a time when we need the labour force; well to note at a time when it is necessary for these families to enter the labour market and do the very best for their children, namely to show that they are doing their duty before they demand their right. It's crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143627	Yes, and it's crazy what Mrs. Pernille Vermund brings. Radical Left takes care of children who grow up in poverty. And there is a difference between children and adults. Children cannot ask their parents to take a job, so the temporary allowance for the children's families is for the children. Then it is clear that there are some people who are adults and should be at work. That is why I say that the very best thing you can do for yourself, your own economy and, as such, to be a good role model for your children is to take a job. And thus I listed a number of the results that actually show that there is an integration success present, including in the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143712	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143717	I just want to say that if the fight against poverty is so much at the heart of the Radical Left, why has the Radical Left voted in favour of a financial law that makes all groups in the Danish population poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143733-2	The Radical Left has voted in favour of a very good financial law which abolishes the education ceiling, which deals with the green transition, which is responsible in a number of areas, including economic ones, and which encourages companies to get foreign labour. So, in all respects, this is a very good financial law, and that is why the Radical Left has of course voted in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143801	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143803	However, the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance merely show that the Finance Act makes all groups in Danish society poorer, and the rapporteur has just emphatically stressed how much the Radical Left is against poverty. How are these two things connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143816	This is connected with the fact that, because the Radical Left is against child poverty, we are also ensuring that families receive financial support, so that it is not the case that you cannot send your children to children's birthdays and that you cannot join the football club and the Danish association life. That's what happens if children grow up in poverty, and that's what we're about to get rid of with this economic handshake.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143847	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur from the SF, so that is why it is now the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten and we are taking it very calmly, as things were now a little stronger in the order. But it is Mrs Rosa Lund who is now going to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207143911	I can then start by greeting from the SF, which I actually knew would not be here, because I have promised to convey a greeting from them. I'm sorry. But I have to say from the SF that they cannot support this resolution. The Danish welfare society is based on the fact that persons who live legally in Denmark, whether foreigners or Danish nationals, have certain rights, including the right to receive social benefits if they cannot take care of themselves. In Enhedslisten we do not want to create a society in which a privileged class of Danes have exclusive access to social services, while a large group of foreigners living in Denmark do not. On the contrary, we want Denmark, for example. must take its share of responsibility for the world's refugees, and in this respect we do not escape the fact that, for a period of time, the vast majority of refugees will have to receive social benefits in order to get by. The authors of the proposal motivate the proposal to reduce the incentives for foreigners to apply to Denmark. It has to be said that the former Left Government did an effective job of making Denmark an unattractive country to seek asylum in, and we now have asylum numbers that are lower than they have been for many years. The reduced benefits for new arrivals, the principle of earning child benefit and the fractional pension for refugees lead to people living in poverty in Denmark. In the Enhedslisten we believe that there is a need to raise the benefits, to increase access to them. There is no need to remove them. It creates deeper chasm and greater inequality in our society, and we in the Enhedslisten are not interested in that. I have done my job badly if it comes as a surprise that the Enhedslisten cannot support this resolution from the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144128	I think the rapporteur made it quite clear what the position was and now there is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144134	Thank you for the floor. No, I am not surprised that the Enhedslisten and Mrs Rosa Lund do not support the proposal. It does not surprise me that the Enhedslisten wants to raise the benefits to all including foreigners. It is still a bit frightening and cross-border to think about the consequences, but I am not surprised. Having said that, I would like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund: what does the rapporteur think about the consequences of raising these benefits to foreigners? Does the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten think that the number of migrants who come here after having travelled through several safe countries to find a place to settle will be greater or less by increasing the benefits to foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144225	In fact, I am not sure that this is of great importance. I recognise, of course, that if you are on the run, you want to flee to a country where there is security for yourself and your family against the country from which you are fleeing. However, because we are raising benefits, we are not changing the rules on residence or citizenship, which are quite strict in Denmark. Now it is the case that in order to receive a benefit you must have legal residence in Denmark, so I do not quite share the concern that I think lies in Mrs Pernille Vermund's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144301	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144303	I know that the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten, like us, are concerned that there are a great many people sitting on them. Soul field and don't go out. Our concerns may differ, but we share the basic concern. When it is a problem that so many people seek to do so, it is because, on the one hand, those who then have residence find it difficult to adapt to our society and, on the other hand, those who are not granted a residence permit are so unwilling to comply with the requirement that they meet to travel abroad. Therefore, I have to ask once again: if you travel through several safe countries to find a place to settle, is the likelihood of choosing Denmark over one of the other countries, greater or less? Again: Based on the research we saw recently, which showed it was greater, based on Frontex's words that the probability is greater, does Enhedslisten still believe that it can be hip as hap, whether the benefits are high or low?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144401	I certainly don't think it can be hip like tap. I certainly believe that having financial security is absolutely essential in order to adapt to the society we come to. In fact, I believe that it is very important for integration and for one to be able to adapt to Denmark, that one is not worried about whether one can afford to pay medicine for oneself or for one's children; that one can send one's children to camp school or that they can go to football in a football club. In fact, I think that is absolutely crucial, so I do not think it is hip as hap. I guess I just have a different starting point. And then there are the conditions around Soulsmark: there are rejected asylum seekers sitting there, so we are dealing with a group whose countries will not accept them; but now they are in Denmark, and therefore we have to look after them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144445	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144449	A great deal must be heard before the ears fall off, I would say, and this debate is a clear expression of it. I got a little curious about something. When Mrs Rosa Lund says this about the need for these migrants or the so-called refugees to find security, does Mrs Rosa Lund not think that Germany is a safe country, France is a safe country or some of the other countries through which they have gone are safe countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144514	Maybe it is. Now I live in Denmark, so that's what I can say. I just think that, as a country and as Denmark, we have the responsibility to look after the people who come here. But I also believe that we cannot park the bill for the migrant crisis, for the refugee crisis in either France, Germany, Spain or Greece, because I believe that we in Denmark have to shoulder our share of the responsibility. We cannot park the bill of the countries that you hit only when you travel to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144545	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144547	It was simply because the rapporteur himself said that they would seek security in a safe country, and then it was quite natural to ask about it. Clearly, many of them travel because, of course, they have to find the best possible conditions. That is understandable, but we simply have to stop it because, in Denmark, of course, we are. I have to ask the rapporteur something: does the rapporteur think that all foreigners throughout the world have exactly the same claim to everything in the Danish welfare state as the Danes, who through generations have contributed to this being a safe and free society, and the rapporteur believes that we should open up the possibility of everyone being completely equal in having access to them under the same conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144630	No, I don't think so. I believe that we have an asylum system that works quite well. I believe that the rules in Denmark are too tight, but I think that we have a very fine system where we take quota refugees, where there are some people who have protection requirements, that is to say who are entitled to protection in Denmark if they come here, according to the UN Convention on Human Rights. So I think that we have some excellent rules for it today, and I think that the rules for obtaining citizenship and for obtaining permanent residence permits are far too tight, but I think that the international system we have today is a good system and that it is important that Denmark contributes to it. It's so fair if New Citizens feel different.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144710	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144724	Thank you. As our integration rapporteur, Marcus Knuth, cannot be here, I will read his speech in the Chamber. With this motion for a resolution, new citizens will require the government to make the necessary legislative changes so that the right to public transfer income for new entrants with a residence permit will cease after three months' stay in Denmark. Let me say straight away: in the Conservative People's Party, we agree that it is important that public services to foreigners do not increase, and therefore we look with great concern at the increases in benefits that the government is now going to make. For example, the government is turning up the integration service, and we are very concerned about that. Denmark must not become a magnet for asylum seekers, and as long as Europe's external borders are not kept under control, we must be very careful about what signal we are sending, because the size of the benefits is of great importance to how many people are coming to Denmark, so it has an impact on the number. Having said that, we think that this resolution goes too far and attacks the problem in a wrong way. We must undoubtedly be aware of who comes to the country and that, as a society, we are not marginalised to their breadwinner, but to cut people off from the right to public support after three months will be wrong. People who are not legally resident in Denmark should not, of course, be entitled to benefits, but if you are entitled to stay in Denmark, there are also rights. The most interesting thing to discuss in relation to public transfer income is the size of them and how to earn them, not whether you have just acquired legal residence in Denmark or not. The Conservative People's Party is therefore aware of the problem of increasing benefits to foreigners, but we cannot support this proposal because, in our view, it is attacking the problem incorrectly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207144938	Thank you for the floor. On the one hand, the rapporteur says that you want to regulate services so much that it creates the necessary incentive for people to either get to work or opt out of Denmark. On the other hand, it is said that you will not make it clear to those who come here that a prerequisite for staying in Denmark, i.e. as part of the basis of stay, is that after three months you have to be self-supporting. Can the rapporteur explain why we are not prepared to take the necessary steps and say that, in this way, it is necessary for us to be able to get here at all, to work and support ourselves and, moreover, to ensure against unemployment that this is something we must sign if we are to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145029-2	Well, I believe that people who come to Denmark as immigrants and have to work here should, as a starting point, be self-supporting. Of course you have to; that's all that was missing. As far as refugees are concerned, we have some international obligations where they cannot be said to support themselves. In relation to refugees, it is extremely important that we start thinking in new directions, in a new asylum reform. I believe that we must do everything we can to prevent people coming themselves, but bring people from the camps themselves. It has many advantages. But so, those who reside here legally have some rights under the Constitution. You can't go down to zero, because that would be contrary to section 75 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145120	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145121	But now the resolution is about newcomers and, as the rapporteur himself says, several parties, the rapporteur's party, the Left, the New Citizens' Party, the DF and even the government, have advocated an asylum system that helps people outside Denmark and takes only quota refugees. So if we park the refugee debate for a moment and talk about family reunification and about immigrants in general, is it not reasonable to say that a precondition for getting here and settling down is that after three months you are self-employed and that you take out insurance against unemployment, you are self-employed and you have to return to your country of origin? It is not contrary to the basic law to include it in the living conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145210	I believe that people who come here and get jobs should be told that they must be self-supporting, but a situation may arise at a time when you do not have a job and then we cannot say that you do not have the right to public benefits during that period. The government will not be able to get through this in a legislative proposal, because that is contrary to the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145232	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145235	I think that we have explained quite clearly that it does not, in fact, do so if that is what the basis of the residence is. So that's what it is, but there's a lot of excuses for not backing this up. Now the rapporteur himself mentions this issue of refugees. The Refugee Convention dates back to 1951 and was ratified in 1952. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the refugee convention has been drawn up in a completely different time with a completely different purpose and that it must therefore be based on something different and not regarded as a sacred writing when one focuses on the problems that exist in the world and in Denmark today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145315	Yes, it is absolutely true that the Convention has been written in quite a different time, and I personally have said several times that we need to update it in a way that corresponds to today's challenges. It was written after World War II on the basis of what happened after World War II, and we are in favour of modernising and updating many of the conventions we are working with. But as long as we are a member of those conventions, we have to abide by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145349	Basically, this is about whether you want to secure a Denmark, which is a safe and free society, and where there is also this safety net under the Danes who need it. And we just have to say that these 35 billion. kr. We have been trying to solve this problem for 30 to 40 years, but that has not happened. Isn't it time for you to say: If you want to be in Denmark, you have to support yourself or you have to find another place to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145435	I think my record shows that I've been very concerned about these things for many years... Denmark and Denmark's security, cohesion, that people have to support themselves and so on. etc. But we must do things in a way that does not conflict with the constitution and with the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145456	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the alternative, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145514	Thank you for the floor. Not surprisingly, the alternative votes against the proposal. We know that one of the reasons why Denmark has been so successful and is famous all over the world for being a pioneering country is that we have been a very equal society. But the gap between rich and poor is constantly widening, and this proposal will make it even wider. It will create unprecedented poverty in Denmark and so much hinder integration, which, moreover, goes fantastic. The story of inequality began as early as August 2015, when the integration grant was introduced for the new refugees. I remember the debate very clearly. The result was poverty, and children were particularly affected. The reality is that many thousands of people are affected by the benefits of integration. It is not because refugees lack motivation to enter the labour market, because it includes all new refugees, but because the miserable integration plans and rigid systems of the past slowly, but surely, have caused the refugees to suffer. That is why so many people are out of the labour market today, and this proposal will not change that; on the contrary, it will make it even more difficult for refugees to get a surplus to look for work when they have to fight all the time to make everyday life work together. Instead of continuing to push for integration, it would be obvious to start the integration process from day one in the asylum phase by providing intensive language courses; competent asylum seekers; retrain those who have immediately useful skills; send them to the municipalities that demand their competences; find employment in a cooperation between municipalities and companies; provide the opportunity to move to the municipalities where a job is created, instead of being tied as a refugee to the municipality first assigned; employ significantly more social counsellors to match the refugees with the jobs; change the bureaucracy that stands in the way of recruitment; and involve civil society and volunteers to a greater extent. The alternative absolutely supports the need for refugees and immigrants to enter jobs, but this proposal will only create poverty, not better integration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145741	Thank you. The whole Danish approach to foreigners and foreign policy is fundamentally wrong, because it is based on a number of quite insoluble tensions between the way the welfare state works, the conditions that apply to mass migration and the conditions that need to be taken into account when it comes to cultural clashes. At the same time, there are some dilemmas in our security policy because we are a small state and we are dependent on stable international cooperation. At the same time, however, we have activist courts which administer a number of the conventions that we are in. And they also suffer from the problem that they are outdated. Therefore, the best solution would be some kind of fresh start, which a very broad majority in the Folketing wanted to implement. But it's not gonna happen that long I've been active in politics. It is always small incremental solutions that are the way forward. This proposal, B 56, could perhaps be such a small incremental solution, in which, within the realistic framework, we tried to close the boxes as much as possible to foreigners coming to Denmark. That will certainly remove some of the wrong incentives that exist today. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution B 56. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145937	I would just like to thank you very much for supporting the motion for a resolution. It is really nice to see that, in relation to what you have said at least in the past, you also allow your words to follow from action. I'm just gonna sign for that, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207145957	All I can say is, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150001	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150003	I'm sorry, I have to say thank you too. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for being more nuanced today compared to the one with open borders, and for holding on to closed boxes. It's a sympathetic move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150018	I am pleased with political agreement every time it succeeds, so I am now too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150024	I would also like to thank the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150042	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are dealing first with the motion for a resolution tabled by New Citizens to limit public services to foreigners, and I think it has been a good and interesting debate, although unfortunately there is no majority in favour of the proposal. I am not surprised that the proposal does not meet the support of the Folketing, but I am actually surprised, because it should be completely uncontroversial to propose that the right to public support for new entrants with a residence permit cease after three months' stay in Denmark. I know that it is relatively controversial to think here in the Danish Parliament, but is it also so if you ask a majority of the Danes? I doubt it. Just six months ago, more than 71 percent voted. of the Danes on parties who said that they would pursue a strict foreign policy. In New Citizens we deliver on what we promise the voters, and I am insanely pleased that both the DF and the Liberal Alliance have indicated that they support the proposal. Thank you. But dear Social Democracy, dear Left, dear Conservative People's Party, why do you not support this proposal? The Minister of Finance has demonstrated that public expenditure on non-Western immigrants and descendants in 2016 amounted to 35 billion. kr. An analysis by the Danish Employers' Association shows that one out of three non-western immigrants in 2018 was on public support. By comparison, it was only about one in six Danes. A large part of the cost of immigrants and descendants is due to public services, shows a response from the Ministry of Finance. On top of public support for non-western immigrants, the cost of a large number of other benefits and subsidies and a lack of tax revenue is due to the fact that the non-western immigrants are not taking on a job but are living on public support, and you will allow them to continue to do so. Why go on this crazy path? In New Citizens we do not believe that Danes' money should be spent on supporting foreigners, and it is not controversial to think, but it is common sense. Because in the long run it will undermine our welfare society and erode the foundation of the Danish community of values. We Danes cannot be supposed to spend our money supporting non-western immigrants instead of spending the money doing something good for our own families. Danes do not have to pay the world's second highest tax for immigrants to live on public support year after year. It is quite unreasonable to the Danes who do their duty and support themselves when they can. I am happy that we live in a country where we as Danes help each other. Although we do not know each other personally, we worry about each other because of our national community of values. We must be able to continue to do so, which is why we need to draw a line in the sand. We do, among other things. with this proposal. No more milking the Danes' purse and sending the content to immigrants who should support themselves. Foreigners must be told clearly and in cash that they can therefore only be in Denmark if they support themselves. And no, that does not mean that with our policy we will declare Denmark out of the world community as a fortunately former Prime Minister expressed. If we demand self-support for all foreigners, the incentive for productive foreigners to apply to Denmark and contribute positively will, of course, be reinforced, and the incentive for foreigners who have neither the desire nor the ability to support themselves will be reduced. This will be a positive development for both Danes and incoming foreigners, whom decades of failed immigration and integration policies have not been able to create. Integration into Danish society should be a personal responsibility and not a public task. Foreigners should, while living and working in Denmark, take out compulsory insurance against unemployment. I look forward to the work of the committee, where I hope, although I do not believe it, that more parties will end up supporting our proposal to limit public services to foreigners. It is time for the necessary legislative changes to be made so that the right to public support for new entrants to Denmark can cease after 3 months' stay in Denmark. That is right and fair, and that is common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150539	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here from the platform just a little advice, before a meeting is soon concluded, namely that both the wording du I It is just a good advice to everyone who speaks from the platform. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor at all, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200207150618	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 18 February 2020 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
