ParlaMint-DK_20200507100004	Welcome to this meeting of the Danish Parliament on Thursday 7 May 2020. Today there are the following reviews: Pernille Skipper (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 166 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution that welfare expenditure should at least follow population development). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 167 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on criminalisation and improvement of anti-stalking measures). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20200507100042	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507100205	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 66 by Thomas Jensen (S), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL) and Torsten Gejl, (ALT), and the vote can begin. As soon as you have voted, you may leave the Chamber and queue up for the next vote. The vote will end. The vote was taken on the 35th paragraph of Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 2, 1. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, ALT, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 66 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 65 by Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF), Niels Flemming Hansen (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507100744	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 62 by Jacob Jensen (V), Mette Gjerskov (S), René Christensen (DF), Zenia Stampe (RV), Signe Munk (SF), Mai Villadsen (EL), Mette Abildgaard (KF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), and the vote can begin. The vote will end. The vote was taken on the 35th paragraph of Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure. 2, 1. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). For voting 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against voting 2 (NB), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 62 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507101330	Before we start the debate, I must point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and short remarks. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? No one does, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507101421	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and the vote may start. Thank you, that concludes the vote. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507101851	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507101921	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507101950	The Minister for Industry has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 1 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? That is not the case, and then the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case either. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102027	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 32 outside the report by the Minister for Industry that the bill is divided into two, as adopted. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Financial Statements Act, the Companies Act, the Law on Certain Business Companies, the Auditor Act and various other laws]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-28, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on auditors and the law on the dissemination of real estate, etc.] Was it here that there was a comment? No, we just need to be quiet in the back when the President speaks. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 29-31, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102135	Before we start the debate, I would like to point out once again that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, including ministerial speeches, rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, will be taken from the seats. For the purpose of drawing up the minutes, it is very important that you do not start talking until the red ring on your microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see your remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102222	Thank you. The time of the corona crisis has been marked by insecurity. For everyone, but especially women who live in violent conditions, it has felt that insecurity quite violently. Life on the home front has been much more acute than usual, and this has unfortunately also resulted in more women being subjected to violence and threats. This has far-reaching consequences both for them and for their children. This has meant that the country's crisis centres have had more inquiries than usual. That is why we have also acted quickly and have brought together funding from 2020 to create more emergency places. At the same time, we also need to recognise the psychic but, to varying degrees, the ugly face of violence can result from having the violence very close to life. It causes severe bruises and injuries both in yourself and in the children you may have with you. That is why we can also see that the bill we are debating today is presented as part of the implementation of the agreement between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to the Finance Act 2020. With the bill, we are taking really great steps in the right direction in the field of violence, and we recognise the traumas that violent women suffer when violence shows its incredibly ugly face. Specifically, the bill will mean that the municipal councils will have to offer 10 hours of psychological treatment to women who will be staying at shelters under Section 109 of the Services Act. Women must be offered during or after the stay. At the same time, the offer of 10 hours of psychotherapy must be made by an authorized psychologist. However, it is also important to point out that as far as possible the municipal councils must use psychologists who have a professional background and experience of the problems and challenges facing women who are victims of violence, because we know that a violent relationship not only has far-reaching consequences for the life in which you live, but can also have massive consequences for the life and everyday life that you live and have after the violence has gone away. That is why it is also crucial that violence-stricken women receive the necessary help they need. The offer of psychotherapy will help women to improve their lives in the future and improve their mental health. Hopefully, this will also make it easier for women to find a foothold and well-being in a life without violence. In conclusion, I would like to spend some of my time thanking the parties behind the historic agreement in the field of violence. It is good to see that the parties agree to help violent women who so much need a helping hand. We need to focus together on the fact that you can fight your way out of the violence and that we can help you to recover. Thank you, too, to the many organisations that have stubbornly and persistently pointed out that authorized psychological assistance makes a difference when it comes to getting out of the violence. Of course, the social democracy supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102547	There's one question. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102552	Thank you. I have to say that I am very surprised that only women who are victims of violence are reached, because it is estimated that there are about 2 000 women. 19,000 men subjected to violence. So why is it that it has been chosen not to apply to men, so that both men and women receive help in psychotherapy? I would like the Socialist rapporteur to give an answer on this, so why we do not want to put equal treatment in this area, so that men are treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102628	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102631	Thank you. It is very good to hear that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is very concerned about equality, but also about the nature of violence. After all, it is crucial to say that violence affects the vast majority of women, and now this is where we start. It is important to say that we have also repeatedly taken action in relation to men, and that we have also raised several million, which Karina Adsbøl and Dansk Folkeparti have been involved in in relation to these emergency packages themselves. So this is a really good and big step that we are taking in relation to psychological help for women in the first place. And then it is important to say that more than two thirds of the victims are women and that they are also extremely affected in relation to their children, and that you can see that it is very important in relation to what you bring with you. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102729	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102730	I would really like to follow up on that, because I do not think the rapporteur is responding specifically to it. Because it is true that we in the Danish People's Party always say that men should also be remembered; there are also men who are subjected to violence, and there are also men who can attend a centre with their children. What help is there for them? I have to say that in this bill there is no help for men or their children. The bill even says: "It is noted in this context that men who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in close relationships are not given access to the same treatment. You're in favour of that with your eyes open with this bill. So I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether they will be involved in changing the draft law, so that, of course, this also applies to men.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102814	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102816	In fact, I think that the bill is sharp and precise in that this is where we start. We know that it is crucial that you build up good confidence again and that you get the violence shaken off. And the violence that women experience is more marked. I mean, I think this is a really good place to start, and I think it is crucial that we get to it. In fact, I do not think there is any reason to shake my hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102847	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507102853	Thank you very much. In the Left, we are working to reduce all types of violence in society. No Dane should be subjected to violence of any kind. Violence in every form has major consequences for the well-being, security and general health of the individual. Unfortunately, many women and men are subjected to so-called partner violence. It is estimated that around 38,000 women and around 19,000 men in 2017 were exposed to physical partner violence. In the Left, we will not stand idly by when people in Denmark are subjected to violence of any kind. Violence is not just a physical or mental act. It is intimidating, it is oppressive and it is destructive. That is why we welcome this bill, which requires municipalities to offer psychological treatment to women who have a stay at a crisis centre. The proposal is perhaps particularly important in this coronatid, where we have all realised what it can mean to be at home, when we have asked the Danes to stay more in the home and when it has created acute situations that have led to more violence. There have been women here who have not had the desired security and security and have had to go to the shelter. It is a good thing that women are given the opportunity to talk to an authorized psychologist. This may mean that women get more tools with them during their stay and thus get an angle on what mechanisms are needed to break perhaps an evil spiral. It is essential to ensure that women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence and similar crises in close relationships receive the help they need quickly. We in the Left will help both men and women who are subjected to violence in close relationships. I therefore welcome the fact that women are being helped with this bill, but we must not forget the men, as the Danish People's Party also mentioned a moment ago in a question. There is also great potential in helping men. Although violence may be wearing a different mask, most men in crisis and violence also need support and, above all, a greater focus on their conditions and their health. Having said that, we welcome the bill here, but we also have some questions for the bill. Why 10 hours? Why is it that the Minister, among other things? has not chosen to add women under paragraph 1. 8 in section 109 of the Service Act • that is to offer what we offer children today: somewhere between 4 and 10 hours? What does the duration of the stay mean? Does that mean that if you've been there a day and a half, you can get 10 hours of psychological help? Can you get it if you choose to go back to the same one? Are there any conditions at all for obtaining 10 hours of authorized psychological assistance? We are delighted, as I said, because it is a step in the right direction. There is no doubt about that, and I look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103245	There is a question from Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103249	First of all, I am delighted that the Left welcomes it so well, and we are also looking forward to the committee reading. I hope, of course, that the Left supports doing something central for women who are experiencing violence. What led me to take the floor was the wordings on this question of whether to make demands when going to a crisis centre for one day or for five or ten hours, when we know that it requires repeated calls. Should I understand the fact that the Left says that you have to sign that you will be there for three days before the Left can vote in favour of the bill? I'm just wondering.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103325	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103327	I'll answer that quickly. There should be no doubt that we think this is a good idea. But there is a time when it is the case that you are advised and given information about your stay. From when does this come into force? If the woman's only been there for 11⁄2 days, that's one thing. I know this is about trust, but there is a big difference between whether it is a woman who has been subjected to violence for a much longer period or whether it is someone who is in a single crisis situation. Are there any conditions at all? That is what I am trying to clarify, otherwise I cannot understand why paragraphs have not been extended. 8 of Section 109 of the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103409	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103410	I am also very much looking forward to the committee's reading, because that is where we really can deal with it. But I just have to be sure: does the Left believe that the fact that you are taking the initiative to actually step across the threshold of a crisis centre and you may only stay there for two hours because you get so scared that you return to an extremely violent man means that somebody has to put a bar over it? I just have some doubts, because I think it is really important that this applies regardless of what it is, so we are just getting women out of the violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103439	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103441	Thank you. What I am trying to ask is whether any thoughts have been made at all about who can receive it. Or is it everyone who goes to shelters to have it? That's how I read it, and that's what I'm asking: why is it that you don't expand it? What's the difference between pieces? 8 and so pcs. 9, which is now to be added to section 109 of the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103508	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103513	Thank you. It's kind of weird standing down here from your place and talking. All forms of violence are totally unacceptable, regardless of who commits it. And as has already been said, it is estimated that 38,000 women and 19,000 men in Denmark have suffered partner violence. Where violence against women has been similar, there has been an increase in violence against men. When there is violence in a family, it cannot be avoided that it affects more people, including those who live with violence in the family. Those children need help, whether they show up with Mom at a women's crisis center or a father at a man's center. That is why I would also like the Minister to explain to us from the floor of the floor, even if it does not happen from the platform today. helping children who show up with Dad at one of the men's centers. Do these kids get the same help that if they show up with Mom at a women's emergency center? Why is it that women, men and children are not equated so that they can get the same offer of psychotherapy? And why is it that women's crisis centres have only been included in this bill? I think it's really too bad. We would like to help make this bill even better, so that it will also be broader. Because with this bill it is proposed that the municipal council should offer 10 hours of psychological treatment to women staying at a shelter under section 109, and the offer can be launched during the actual stay at the shelter or immediately following it. After all, it is very good that you want to help women who are victims of violence, and we want to do so in the Danish People's Party too. In the past, it has been the case that we have negotiated this widely in the pool of rates, but after the abolition of the rate pool, it is one of the things that is now going to the Finance Act. When we talk about section 109 of the Service Act, I have a wish, and I have also made that point in the past from the platform and under the various ministers who have been. Paragraph 109 states: "The municipal council must offer temporary residences for women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. Women may be accompanied by children and they receive care and support during their stay. ▪ But why not extend that paragraph to include men? I have a wish for that. We also have a number of questions in the committee procedure, and then we have a goal to improve this bill, so that we also have to help men if they need psychotherapy. There we have to think that it's not about gender. It is about violence, and it is about having help, no matter who you are, if you are subjected to violence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103825	Thank you. Mrs Adsbøl has now said that it is a little strange to stand down and speak, and I can only agree with Members on that. That is why I should like to take this opportunity to say that the Bureau has decided that there will be a plexiglass plate between the President and the speaker, so that, from Tuesday onwards, we will be able to stand on the platform again instead of standing down. Then we have a little more normal conditions, at least in terms of being able to get on the platform. So it was just a little bit of information. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103905	Thank you. After all, with L 173, we are implementing the latest financial agreement, in which we have set aside a certain amount of money for the purpose of this law, which is to ensure that women affected by violence in crisis centres are offered psychological assistance. It is 10 hours that we are offering them, and it is a good quality boost to aid for women affected by violence. As this is now becoming the new standard of assistance for women in shelters, I must say that, with the following enlargements, it will of course also include offers to men. We welcome this good step forward and are prepared to take more on later occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103938	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507103944	Thank you for the floor. I would actually like to start by thanking those shelters and outpatient services that are doing a huge amount of work to help the victims of violence, both before the corona crisis, but especially now that the crisis is holding more people at home and the violence in some homes is escalating. With this bill, we are implementing a financial agreement to allow women in shelters to have easy access to psychological assistance, as municipalities must offer 10 hours with an authorised psychologist in connection with the crisis center stay, and no matter how long the stay is. This is happening, among other things. based on the good experience gained from the pilot scheme, which was below the rate pool, and which showed that it was an important offer. Since the end of the trial scheme, the offer has been missing, but now we are making access permanent. Women seeking accommodation in shelters have, first and foremost, taken a great step in leaving their homes, a home which should be safe, but which has been filled with fear, where violence or threats have escalated and where time has been turbulent. In addition to the need to get to safety and get advice to get out of the violence, they also need to process violence experiences and reactions they experience in order to master a new everyday life without violence. And they need to build up strength to protect and care for themselves and their children. In the SF, we are generally very concerned about working to make psychotherapy easier without self-payment, yes, most of all we saw in the SF that we had completely removed user fees, so that we can have free and equal access there as to other health services. That is why we are also pleased with every step that can be taken in that direction. We have among other things. free psychological treatment was introduced for young people between 18 and 21 years of age with anxiety and depression, and in the understanding paper between the government and its support parties we have agreed that access to free psychological care should be extended to the 6-24 year olds. And with the latest financial law agreement, it was also agreed to give this opportunity to women in shelters. Every step in the right direction towards easy-to-access and free psychological assistance for those who need it, we warmly support and therefore also about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104208	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we're gonna move on. This is Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104214	Thank you. Every year thousands of people in Denmark are subjected to partner violence. Women are the largest group in these statistics. In fact, it is estimated that up to 38,000 women are exposed to partner violence each year. And in this coronatid, we've really been able to see how the violence has escalated, too. In fact, figures say that twice as many people have approached the shelters during this period. Sometimes the violence escalates further and leads to killing. In fact, partner killing is the largest single group of killings in Denmark. That is absolutely tragic and awful. The crisis centers around the country have been filled. There are years of waiting lists for treatment and assistance for both perpetrators and victims around Denmark. And the women who stop at shelters have not had the right to psychotherapy and help to process their traumas, which a life of violence naturally gives. We are changing that now, and I am extremely happy and proud to be part of it. It was a completely central demand for us in the Enhedslisten during the negotiations of the Finance Act that we had a much needed and clearly necessary boost to the crisis centres and a strengthening of the fight against violence in Denmark. In fact, I do not think it is worthy of a welfare society that some of the people who are in the most pressing situation, namely being subjected to violence in their homes, have met a closed door when they have sought help. We cannot be familiar with that. That is why I am so pleased that we have secured more seats so that people no longer have to go in vain when they seek help and protection from domestic violence. We are expanding outpatient care so that more people can get help all over the country, and with this bill we will ensure that women who are staying at a shelter are given the right to psychotherapy and help to resume a life with family and friends and work, but away from violence. Of course we have to help all people in Denmark who are subjected to violence, but I am really glad that with this bill we are creating a concrete and noticeable difference for many women's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104514	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104521	Thank you. Conservatives think this is a very noble and noble bill. There should be no doubt that, for us in the Conservative People's Party, it is very important to help and do something for women affected by violence. We really want to be involved in this too. However, we would like to help influence what needs to be done and what action should be taken. We would like to have the opportunity to provide our input on this. We have not had that in relation to this bill, as it is an agreement made by the government and its support parties in connection with the Finance Act. We would have liked to have had a discussion on this, as I said. Whether or not this is the right bet, there may be more than one bet. It is not certain that it is just the 10 hours of psychological assistance that are right in the situation and just what you need. We would like to have a discussion on this. We also have some questions in relation to this bill, which we would have liked to have discussed. Should psychological assistance be offered on the basis of an individual assessment? Would that be a good idea? Why should it be 10 hours, and should it also apply to stays of two hours, for example.? And I am also thinking: what is the reason why efforts have not also been made in relation to men in relation to doing something in violent families and in relation to violent people? We may also think that it could be an opportunity to make some more outpatient offers. In short, we have not been invited to any discussion on this initiative, and we would have liked to have had that discussion so that we could have made our input and views on the matter as well. Unfortunately, however, we have not had that discussion, as the government has only done this with its support parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104749	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507104755	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by saying that I have extreme respect for the work of the people who are out at our women's and men's crisis centres in Denmark. It is both voluntary and trained staff who have a basic knowledge of what needs to be done when someone comes in who is affected by violence. These are self-serving institutions. They offer shelter and help when victims of violence have to leave a violent spouse or concubine and seek refuge. And I also have a great faith that the people who work at these centres have an in-depth knowledge of how best to help those who seek help. That means an individual assessment. This proposal proposes to force all municipalities to offer 10 hours of psychological assistance to all those seeking refuge in the women's crisis centres, no matter how long they have been here. First of all, I am quite surprised that the government is making a proposal which only serves women affected by violence, not men. Secondly, I think that we are going to miss the goal, because it is a general sickening of a great many strong and courageous Danish women who are seeking shelter at women's crisis centres to have a safe harbour for themselves and their children while they get back on their feet. I have full confidence that the skilled workers who are at the shelters know how to help and what possible actions should be referred to. This is not something we should dictate in here from Christiansborg. Half of the women seeking help at shelters are immigrants and descendants. And that also shows that we have a problem that is not just solved by psychotherapy. This is solved by solving the immigration policy from scratch and ensuring that Islam has no influence in Danish society. For in Islam there is the oppression of women. It is a women's oppressive ideology with lots of social control. And the view of women in Islam must by no means be accepted in Denmark. So we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105022	There's a question from Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105026	Thank you. I was aware that the rapporteur said that it was a sickening of women. I'd just like to clarify that. There is, for example. No compulsion to accept these hours of psychotherapy. Indeed, it has been a great wish of a great many women who are in crisis centres that they can access it, but if they are dependent on them to fight with the municipalities to get it granted, it can be difficult, and then they may get it too late in relation to when they need it. That is one question. The second question goes on this one with the length of the stay. Other rapporteurs have also said the same thing. Does the rapporteur think that there is a connection between how long you are in a crisis centre and how hard you are suffering from it psychologically? Because I don't think there necessarily is.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105114	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105116	Thank you very much for the question, which also allows me to elaborate on my answer. First of all, the sickening, and yes, because I actually think you do. You cut everyone over a comb. They say everyone needs psychological help. But there are a lot of strong, courageous Danish women who have simply escaped from this and who may need help to get assigned a home or something else. That's what I'm talking about. I have every confidence that this isn't something we have to dictate from in here. But we're not gonna sit in here at Christiansborg and dictate and detail who's gonna have this. It must be on the basis of an individual case-by-case assessment at the individual women's crisis centres, and it must be done by the skilled employees who are out there not from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105213	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105217	Psychiatry would really be sickening these women. It is, of course, an offer to women that we give them the right to receive. That's what the bill is all about. The bill is not about forcing 10 hours of psychotherapy down on a woman who does not want to receive it, in no way. But that gives women the right to have it when they are at a shelter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105239	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105240	Thank you so much. Yes, it is, because you give everyone the right to 10 hours of psychotherapy. Then it is we who go in and say that when you're at a shelter, you need psychological help. It's very, very different. There are a lot of these women who don't necessarily need psychological help either. So do you think that psychology is the eternally sacrificing thing for these people? No, there will be plenty of others who need some other action. And frankly, there I just have the opinion that there are some talented employees out there at these women's crisis centres who have a very good knowledge of what exactly those women need, whether they have been there for 2 hours or whether they have been there for a long period with their children. I just have that faith. Then we can easily talk about improving things elsewhere to which we can be referred, if that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105334	Then there is a question from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105337	Thank you, President. So there is something in the argument that I simply do not understand. It is because the rapporteur uses the word dictation ^ that we dictate that someone should have something, that we dictate that someone should have psychological help. It is an offer among other offers that you can choose to accept. How can the rapporteur in any way claim that we dictate something when we offer something that is voluntary?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105404	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105405	Thank you. It's kind of weird; I'm trying to turn around here a little while while I answer down the microphone. Well, it is when we decide from here that all women who come to a women's crisis center must have offered psychological help, because they probably need it. It's not safe, and that's one thing in it. I have every confidence that the employees out there are much better aware of this because they have better knowledge of the women who are there and what they need, and then they can refer to it. Whether it is to a doctor who can then refer on to something else or whether it is to be referred to get help to get a home or something else, I have full confidence that they can fix it. So I really don't think there's so much more in it actually.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105451	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105453	Well, there's something in it, because we have to use correct argumentation and grammar in here in the Folketing. You know, when you dictate something, you say people have to do something. Then you say, "A dictation is to say that people have to do something." Here we offer something. Can the rapporteur not see that that word simply cannot be used in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105518	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105519	No, and now I'm kind of a Danish teacher myself, so thank you for that, by the way. When you do something like this, you dictate it too. It is quite clear from the draft law that we dictate to the municipalities that they must offer 10 hours of psychological assistance to all those who are in these women's crisis centres, regardless of the length of their stay. So it is a dictatorship; it is something we go in and tell the municipalities that they must at the same time it is a question of how we say, overall from Christiansborg, that all these women who go to women's crisis centres must of course need some psychological help, and I think that is not our job.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105556	Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105559	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur has faith in the workers in crisis centres. That is a good thing, and I do, but it is actually the employees, it is indeed the crisis centres that have repeatedly approached us politicians at Christiansborg to ensure that there was a right to psychological assistance, a right that they could pass on women to psychologists and others. And I simply do not understand why the rapporteur hangs his hat on that trust, since it is precisely the staff who have approached us and asked for this help.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105636	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105637	Thank you so much. That was a very good question. Well, this is a question of what you think and how you set things up. When those employees out at these women's crisis centers are with a woman like me. is really, really ruined by this violence, so that's where they have to help with some different actions. I am absolutely confident that they will then be able to make representations to, for example, the United Kingdom. a doctor who can refer that woman to our health system. It is also a question of where you think you should take action. I don't necessarily think it's a psychological offer. I think it might be something else. So for this, we in here from Christiansborg say it should be 10 hours of psychological assistance: No. But I would really like to take part in going in and looking at whether or not there are some other places in our health system where you can say: here we have to get up. And now I specifically mentioned this psychiatric bedroom thing, but it could easily be elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105730	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105734	Well, I think there is a problem in the rapporteur's argument, because if you are referred to a psychologist via the doctor, you have to get your wallet out of your pocket and pay for it yourself, and secondly you have to wait a very long time, and I do not think that we can be familiar with those women in crisis centres. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: it is the case today that there is in fact a right to psychotherapy for children who go to crisis centres, so does the rapporteur not think that there should be, because it is a dictatorship from Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105759	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105800	I think there's a really big difference between children who have witnessed this or something else. So I'm not going to go in and assess it. It's already the legislation in force. I just think we should be careful to expand this too much, because it is not necessarily the case that you need psychological help when you're a woman at a shelter, it can easily be all sorts of other things. The fact that we may have to make some changes in relation to our health system is also fine for me, but this must be based on an individual, concrete assessment and not a decision we take in here at Christiansborg. However, I recognise that there are some who are badly affected, and they need help, of course. Another thing is that I find it very strange that one does not recognise that there are actually also men who are affected by violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105842	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105847	There should be no doubt whatsoever that social democracy is hard on social control; it is totally unacceptable for women to live with threats, no matter what family structure they are in. And that is precisely why psychological assistance in this way helps to create a new reality, a new opportunity to break out of it, and so I do not understand why the rapporteur, on the one hand, says that it should be based on a specific individual assessment and, on the other hand, says that it is women themselves who say that I need it. We give the right to it; we do not, of course, prescribe that you should receive psychological assistance; we grant the right to get out of the massive violence you have been in when you come to a shelter. And then I also agree with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, but I have doubts as to what New Citizens' rapporteur really thinks, in other words whether Christiansborg should not go in and grant rights. It makes sense to do it all around. So what exactly is it that New Citizens won't help these women with? I'm really confused about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507105956	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110000	It is always a pleasure when so much is asked that one can really be allowed to elaborate. And I am incredibly sorry that some people are sitting here and have not understood what I have said. I repeat it very, very much. With this bill, we go in and say, "When you're at a women's crisis center, you need psychological help." I'm not a doctor, and I'm not with these women and I don't know if that's exactly what they're supposed to be offered. And there I just have to say that it's not something we have to decide in here from Christiansborg. In other words, there are plenty of opportunities for the skilled workers who are at the women's crisis centres to refer further. Whether it is passed on to a doctor who can then refer to something else or whether it is help to find a home or what it is, it must lie out with them. And then we can say that if we have some problems, for example. our health system, we have to solve them there, but that in here we sit down and say that now all women who are in the women's crisis centres should be offered 10 hours of psychological assistance, I do not think that is necessarily the right way to go, and that is actually what I said in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110103	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110107	We need to be quite clear; the bill gives a right to instruction on psychological care. It was just that kind of attention, but we can also take it in committee. What concerns me is that, on the one hand, the rapporteur recognizes that, and I very, very much appreciate that, on the other hand, the many professional staff around the shelters and, on the other hand, say that there are the employees who have offered this opportunity to us in relation to the need for this opportunity. It does not quite agree with me that, on the one hand, they recognise and respect them and say that they have a very high level of expertise in crisis centres, while, on the other hand, New Citizens will not be involved in what the professional staff are just asking for, namely that we from Christiansborg go in and help solve it. How, on the one hand, do you think this is a good idea and, on the other hand, do you not support it? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110159	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110203	I am slightly confused because, in my view, the rapporteur's party is also a party which is very much in favour of municipal self-government and that the municipalities are adapting as they wish. And this is also a question of saying: there are some women's crisis centres where there are women, and the employees who are out there have to make an individual assessment, and if they then consider that it is some psychological help that is needed, then I have confidence that the municipalities will then help with it. Well, it's kind of weird that we're gonna sit in here at Christiansborg and decide that psychology is the eternally sacrificing thing for all the women who come to these women's crisis centres. It's not safe at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110234	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110240	Thank you for the floor. Violence in close relationships is a problem that needs to be looked at very seriously. There are some legal and psychological relationships between the perpetrator and the victim, which are of a special nature, so that we cannot simply escape from the violent situation. Sometimes violence in close relationships is also the case that violence is well thought out. It makes it worse in many ways than the violence that is not considered, but is practised in a situation where the perpetrator is out of his or her own mind and outside his or her normal repertoire of action. So the bill seeks to solve a very, very relevant problem. However, we cannot support the draft law, and that is because we believe it is an expression of some very serious abuses in the Folketing, which we also need to address. Firstly, as several rapporteurs have said, there is discrimination on grounds of gender, and we are generally opposed to that. Secondly, the legislative power is making mistakes here, many of which have been made in the field of education, where I have been rapporteur for many years. It is, of course, a question of the legislative power interfering in what is the most relevant treatment in the individual institution and in relation to the individual citizen seeking help. There the legislature says that consultation with a psychologist has some form of primacy in the offer that the citizen should have, but the law does not stop here. It also says that there are a certain number of hours that must be prescribed completely mechanically. In this way, professionalism is completely withdrawn from what is going on at the individual institution. We have struggled with this for many years in the field of education, i.e. that changing majority in the Folketing has withdrawn professionalism from teaching, so there was very, very little left because of fistful politicians who were supposed to withdraw professionalism from being a teacher. This fistfulness is a fistfulness with which the Folketing generally has to take care, because it makes it impossible for local staff to exercise their skills and lock the staff up. So I also think it is necessary to state that this is a legislative proposal, which is the expression of one more habit in the Folketing, namely that a majority in the Folketing is very narrowly speaking in favour of a particular interest. Of course, the special interest of which one speaks is the organized psychologists. Of course, there's nothing strange about caring for special interests. This is probably something that is being done in all parties, but I also think that we should weigh up the way in which we are sensitive to certain interests, with more general and more fundamental considerations. I simply cannot see that taking place here. Thus, this bill reflects the continuation of a very bad tradition in the Folketing from some of the worst we have ever had, namely the rate pool. It was really, really bad, because the bet pool was just a real lot of money that fist-use politicians could use to make their hoops come true. We cannot treat citizens that way, and that is not how we can treat citizens' money. So it's quite nightmarish that these bad memories from the bet pool come back this way. So here we have a very good case, which the majority of the Danish Parliament loses entirely on the floor by throwing itself into some very bad habits that we have a boring tradition of having here in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110645	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110654	Thank you, President. It is incredibly good that we have shelters where women can stay if they are affected by violence. But it is not enough for there to be a place where women can be safe and secure if they have been subjected to violence. The human mind is fragile when it comes to being affected by violence, and it not only gives physical but, but it also causes mental damage and trauma, and the mental damage and trauma require for many people psychological therapy to get back on their feet and get a chance to move on in one's life. So, of course, in the Alternative, we are very happy to be part of a financial agreement that grants violence-stricken women at shelters 10 hours of psychological treatment. This is a good place to start, and we are happy to continue working to get the offer for children and men as well. We think that is relevant input. Then we also see in this bill that it's a desire of employees at the centres who, on the basis of their professional skills, want to have this offer on their shelves, because they can see that it makes sense in the lives of violent women. So the argument that this is something that we impose on someone is completely incomprehensible to me when we meet a professional need from people with a professional insight who work with a exposed target group and who say to us: this is what we want on the shelves. So, in the alternative, we are happy to support this and we are happy to be part of the financial agreement that allows us to start here and we think it is an excellent start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110840	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique (UFG). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507110904	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for a very good proposal. It is a step in the right direction. I would like to see it go even further and not set a ceiling over the hours. For 38,000 women, violence can also end up in women's killings, and I dare not even think of the darkness that exists in this area. I am also pleased with the proposal because, in this parliamentary year, I have tabled four proposals on women's rights and partner violence in particular. We have dealt with one as if police units were involved, and in the near future we will have to deal with the other three, who are calling for outpatient treatment for victims of violence and perpetrators of violence and a knowledge centre. So I'd just like to sign for the proposal. Then I also hope that, when we are about to deal with the proposals I just mentioned, there is as much support in the Folketing as there is for this proposal, so that we can ensure that women who are subjected to violence, partners who are subjected to violence can receive the necessary help and that they can return to a normal life. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111023	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111030	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs for today's debate. I would like to sign for the overall positive reception of the bill and for the debate that we have had today, which I do not like any other proof that this is a problem that we all take very seriously, and that we all recognise how violent the scars give on your body and soul when you are subjected to violence in what should be your safe base in your own home. It is a very special, destructive form of violence, and it is often extremely systematic and often linked up to a high degree of both psychological violence and social control, which means that we see that the women who come to the women's crisis centres show virtually all different symptoms of mental illness and need quite extensive help. This is, of course, a bill, as several have said, which translates part of the financial law agreement with the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Government, and therefore also a special thanks to those parties for a really good run. It is actually quite important that we increase the violence by over 100 million. kr. In the long term. It is an area that has been neglected, I think, and therefore it is nice to see the previous governing parties and the parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party, so deeply concerned about it here today and largely back up the historic promise we made with our financial law of the area of violence. This suggests that there will also be support in the future to lift this area which, as I said, I believe has been neglected for too many years. Too many women are retiring at women's crisis centres, and too many women are making too bad progress in life after having been subjected to violence, and the offer of psychological assistance is an important offer here. We have had good experience of this in the past, following efforts to pool rates on the same subject. I am glad that we can now help those women to move on better in their lives and could be there for their children who, in many cases, have also experienced violence and could have a life without violence. I am, of course, at the disposal of questions in the further reading of the committee, but I would just like to add a few words to the points that have been raised in this debate. I believe that some of this is due to some misunderstandings, and we can have an opportunity to clarify this in committee. In other words, when we talk about authorized psychologists, it is not a question of whether you are in a particular union, but of whether you have an authorisation and are under the control of the Psychologist Board. It is, of course, a quality assurance, just as the bill also says, that it must be psychologists who have an understanding of the particular professionalism of violence that must be there if we are to be able to help women who have been subjected to violence for a long time. There is a question of whether nothing is being done for the men, and that is what is being done in the financial agreement we have made. We're gonna set up $48 million. kr. This is an offer for those who do not have the opportunity or for whom it is not right to tear up their lives and physically move to a shelter so that they can get outpatient help and treatment. This applies to both men and women, so that the historic boost in the field of violence that we made with the Finance Act will also benefit men. Then perhaps I would also like to make it clear that this does not mean that we will have our health care rights reduced in addition. I can hear that New Citizens may have a concern about this, i.e. whether this is instead of what else you have the right to treatment in our health care. It doesn't. This comes on top of the help, guidance and massive advice given to women who are staying at our shelters today. It is a right to women, and so there is also what is called for, namely an individual assessment. The individual estimate takes care of the individual woman, according to whether she wants to and will benefit from the offer of psychological care. It's not a command. That is why I would also like to say to the Left, who is asking whether this is regardless of the duration of the stay. Yes, well, often you will see a woman approach one crisis center and then end up staying at another crisis center, either by security considerations you cannot be in your immediate environment if you are threatened in that way or by lack of space. Of course, it is not the case that there are 10 hours triggered by the first contact with a crisis center and then another 10 at the next one. It is to be regarded as a total stay. Otherwise, however, psychologists also have the right to go home with them, and that is why it is the home municipality that is responsible for it, because some women want long stays and other women want shorter stays, but they want the right to psychological assistance regardless. Rather, I think we are looking into this problem and the rapporteurs, who have been working on this for many years, will also know that too many women interrupt their stay too quickly. We see too many women returning to a violent partner on too many occasions, and in relation to the women who do so, my fear is more than what the rapporteur of the Left says they want to reject this aid. In fact, they are probably some of those who would most need to accept it. But that is certainly an answer to what the Left is asking, and let us at last get it further in committee. I would like to conclude by welcoming the fact that it seems that there is now such a broad focus in the Folketing on the area of violence and that we must ensure a boost. It was historic what we were doing with the financial law agreement, and we have to follow that through. But I do not think, as others have said, that we are in the end either. I'm deeply concerned about partner killings. After all, Denmark has some sad figures, even when we compare ourselves with the rest of the world, and when we think about what an equal country we like to think about ourselves. And I am also extremely concerned to see the increase in domestic violence here during the corona crisis we have seen. There, too, we will have a major task in getting proper follow-up to this, of course, to those women, children and men who may be subjected to violence during this period, but also, as we know, the perpetrators of violence, whom we know in many cases have grown up in homes with violence. That is why I am also pleased that part of the Finance Act is also to ensure permanent support for the offer called Dialogue Against Violence, which is a treatment offer for the perpetrators of violence, because the very happiest thing is if we help the victims both out of the violence, but also if we can ensure that the perpetrators of the violence get out of that role and stop violence in close relationships. That is the happiest thing if both of these things can succeed. So thank you for the debate and commitment, and I look forward to the committee reading. And I look very much forward to this promise working for the benefit of the victims of violence in our society. This is one of the legislative proposals that I have been most looking forward to standing in this Chamber with. So it's nice to say thank you again to the Finance Law parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111734	Thank you. So far there are three who will ask questions, and the first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111748	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is an area that has been of great interest to cross-party parties, and that is why we have always focused in the rate pool on this area and also allocated funds for it. So it's not just the government that can take credit for it. There has been a custom for us to have made plans together, and now it is that the rate pool has been abolished, and then that is very normal, I think, that things are coming into a financial law. It is a good thing that we want to help women who are subjected to violence, but I would like the Minister to explain to us how, for example, we can do this. helping children who show up with Dad at one of the men's centers. Are these children getting the same help as the children who show up with Mom at a women's crisis center? Now the Minister for Social Affairs talked about equality and an equal country like Denmark, but then I am surprised that the focus is only on helping women. It's really good and some of the children, but what about the children who show up with Dad? Is the Minister willing to make an amendment to this, so that includes men?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507111902	Thank you. So, I am glad that the Danish People's Party is happy that the Finance Law parties have found money and prioritised money for a lasting, permanent boost to the Finance Act of the field of violence. I may think it's a little nonchalant to knock it off, as if it were very good that it was done that it was a little in order. I am pretty sure that the actors in this area would have been very happy if they had been given the security and the promise of the Finance Act under the previous government. This was not chosen by the previous government, and it is an honest choice, just as it was not chosen to make the equality of Article 109 of the Service Act, about the women's crisis centres, § 110, which among other things. It's about the men's centers. It could be interesting enough to hear the rapporteur why they did not do so, if it is so obvious that it is easy and simple to do so. So, the rapporteur is well aware of this: the Finance Act concerns the women's crisis centres and Article 109 of the Services Act, not Paragraph 110, and that is the answer to that. But that is to say, the municipalities are always obliged to help the children who need help, that is. Both the children who join women's crisis centres and men's crisis centres, and it is, of course, absolutely crucial that they fulfil that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112016	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112020	I think the Minister is a little out of the question. After all, the Minister knows that with the 2019 rate pool agreement, funds were also set aside for outpatient treatment in general, where they chose to go that way in relation to making the stakes, and that was a broad agreement in the Folketing. But the Minister does not answer the question of whether the Minister does not think that men should have the same offer in terms of help and what about the children who show up with father at a male centre or man crisis centre? Do they have the same rights as children who show up with Mom at a women's crisis center? I am just very surprised that it can be said that only women need help and that the 19 000 men who have been affected will not be helped.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112112	However, the rapporteur knows very well through many years of discussion of the area here that we are dealing with two different paragraphs and that the paragraph under which we have men's centres is also subject to many other offers and that it is not to a large extent only the victims of violence who get the offer here. I'm very happy to discuss it. I don't think anyone can be in any doubt that this government is very happy to discuss how we can make sure that fewer children fly under the radar. It may be children who come from families where parents do not have parental responsibility, and this is certainly not done if there is violence between parents, if the child grows up in a home with violence, whether it is psychological violence or physical violence. It is one of the crucial tasks for this government that we need to take better care of these children, so I would very much like to discuss that. But that doesn't change the fact that this bill is about securing a boost to section 109, which is about the women's crisis centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112202	Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112206	Thank you. I just have a few questions. Now we haven't been involved in making this deal, so I'm just a little curious to hear it because there may be a lot of suggestions about what is the right effort for the individual when you end up at a crisis center: Has it been considered that it should be based on an individual assessment? And how did you just end up in the 10 hours over 5 or 12 hours or something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112240	Thank you. As I think I was also trying to explain in my collection, I believe that when we give women a right to psychotherapy, the most qualified individual assessment will be made, and in that case the woman herself has the opportunity to say no if the woman does not want to. I know this is something you've been looking for. Someone spoke of the professional skills of the employees of the women's crisis centres. You've wanted to have this opportunity for psychological assistance while the woman is at the women's crisis center. So I know that we are going to try to support women in accepting this offer. When we have landed in the ten hours, it is because it is an assessment that it is a number of hours that is large enough to make a difference, and at the same time it is clear that the rapporteur will know that there is a financial framework, just as there is for everything else. And then I just want to say that this is the way it is, and I think that may have been some of the things that Mrs Mette Thiesen was worried about, that you still have all the rights that we all have in our health care. It is not the case that the ten hours of psychological assistance linked to the women's crisis centres are being deducted from what else you have the right to treatment afterwards in our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112346	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112350	Thank you. Well, I thought that was a fine answer. I am also a little curious about the thoughts about the duration of the stay. Does this offer apply, whether we're talking about 1 hour or about 1 month's stay?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112415	There is hardly anyone who comes through the mill and is enrolled in a shelter and then goes after 1 hour; that would certainly be a few. As I also said to the rapporteur of the Left, I think it was in my collection, but in response to the question put by the rapporteur of the Left, this applies here regardless of the duration of the stay. My concern is not that we will see a lot of women quickly interrupting their stay and returning to the violent spouse who brings the psychological aid. The problem is, on the contrary, that there are too many women who, within the first week of their stay, are discouraged and return to the partner who has typically not only been physically violent, but has also committed psychological violence and broken down the woman and the woman's self-esteem in a way that unfortunately means that we see too many women who have resided repeatedly in a women's crisis centre, in other words because they return to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112505	Then it's Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112507	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister. I think it would suit the Minister not to make it sound as if the previous governments have not given priority to the area. Because before the previous government, the minister himself was in government. Then it's neglected, it's neglected by everyone. And can we do better? Yeah, I think we definitely can. Violence in a home is violence against everyone in that home, and I would really like to follow up on the question raised by Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Now that we know how intimidating, destructive and oppressive violence is and how terrible it is for children who grow up in a home of violence, I just have a question for the Minister, because I don't think I could hear an answer, and that's: how is it with those children when it's the case that they're going with dad in the shelter? Is there less violence? Paragraph 109 of the Service Act specifically states that if children are with mother, they are entitled to somewhere between 4 and 10 hours of psychological assistance, and Article 110 does not actually say what it's like if father has children in a shelter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112625	The discussion here today actually makes me happy at several levels, as one, because I have looked forward very much to implementing this part of the financial law agreement, which is a historic boost in the field of violence, and it is much needed, because it is an area that has been based on short-term tue-to-tue appropriations from the rate pool, and that is not good for any area. Now we guarantee both a higher grant, but also a calm surrounding this area. I am both delighted and extremely proud that we have been able to do so. Then I would like to say that the second thing that makes me so happy is that suddenly we have, I can hear, a unanimous Parliament which backs the government's work to put the child first and get a child's law and make a serious effort to ensure that fewer children fly under the radar in relation to the legal obligation that exists today when it comes to the municipalities, who have to take care of the children who are abandoned at home; who have to take care of the children who do not have parents who can provide a safe upbringing. This is one of the biggest tasks we have set ourselves as a government, namely to help these children better, and it is good to hear that there is such strong support for it here in the Folketing. And then I think that the rapporteur, as well as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, knows that when we talk about Paragraph 110, there is a great overweight of citizens for whom there is no violence at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112738	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112743	Thank you very much. Then I can ask the Minister something else. When we talk about violence, and it is true that this is an area in which we are all very concerned, especially when it comes to people who are in crisis and who need help, we do not distinguish between the sexes. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that it is the same experience that exists for men and whether violence has the same effect on men as it has on women?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112819	In relation to partner violence and partner killings, to the extent of both psychological violence, physical violence and control, there is no doubt that women are much more involved in these statistics. They fill more in the homicide statistics when we talk about partner killings. They take up more numbers in relation to physical violence, and also when we talk about social control. Now it is relatively new that one can be convicted of psychological violence, so we cannot possibly conclude on these statistics. That is why there is a gender battle side when we talk about violence, and that is also what is reflected in our legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112856	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507112901	Thank you. I think it is a pity that when you do something good for an area, there should be criticism of everything you do not do. I would also have liked this rule, for example. In the case of those who sought out-patient services, that is to say they should also be entitled to psychological assistance. We will have to work for that as we go along. I do not think the Minister can answer this orally, but perhaps she can do so in writing afterwards. But it might be good to have the overview of what it is exactly for a move towards calm in this area, we are creating a historical overview of what it is like, these funds have been allocated in short-term temporary appropriations for an area where it is actually important that there is a great deal of professionalism. And it is difficult to maintain skilled staff in an area where they are employed in temporary jobs all the time. So perhaps the Minister can explain in writing how the funding for this area of violence has been and what important steps we have taken, not only with this, but also with the other appropriations we have given in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113010	I would very much like to give a commitment on that now. And when I was so fond of our financial agreement and even called it an historic increase in the area, it is both that we increase the appropriations, but to a large extent that we make the appropriations permanent. And that means, of course, that we recognise that this is part of our welfare society, so unfortunately, hopefully, we can reduce the amount of domestic violence; it is really, really brutal in that way to rob people of what should be their very safest place in this world. So it is great also for that reason that this is now becoming a permanent funding and thus a very solid part of our welfare society. So I am happy to pass that on to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113053	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113057	Yes, and at the same time we may also be able to get a picture of the men who are at shelters because it is true that you can be there for incredibly many other reasons; that is, you can only go to a women's crisis center if you have been subjected to violence, and it is a little different with section 110 offers. But perhaps it would be good for the sake of the debate also to get a picture of how many of those who are then on the section 110 offer at the men's centres, which is actually exposed to violence, and thus get a picture of: What is the need? For it may be a relevant discussion to have later when we have to allocate more money to the area. And the same could apply to outpatient services.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113141	We'd like to see if we can get that. After all, I think that we should keep each other from having a broad discussion of this, for the sake of the children. We know that too many perpetrators themselves have been children in a family where there was violence, and that says something about the fact that if we don't break this spiral, this problem will not go away. That is why we have to stick to this issue, and we also have to go beyond where we are now. Now we have secured permanent funding for the treatment offer for perpetrators, and that is also important in both crowns and ears, but also in relation to the fact that we say that there is help to be brought to everyone, also to you who beats, also to you who resort to violence. And we acknowledge that a lot of people do it because they themselves have got some scars on the soul in their upbringing; they have something in their luggage. And, of course, we should not do it as a pool project that stops and is temporary, but as a permanent part of our welfare offer we should also be able to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113230	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113257	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113308	Thank you. When the Danish Parliament decided in 2018 to establish a new family justice system, the goal was to create a coherent system focusing on the child. We all know here that divorce is usually a burden on the child. Whether the parents have long disagreed and argued, or whether the breakup comes suddenly, the child will experience a divorce as a upheaval with a lot of uncertainty and questions. Children may experience guilt, but also great lacks, and the experience of having to take into account the feelings of both parents, but also the feelings of other siblings, can fill a lot with a child. In the Family Court House, the focus is on helping parents cooperate in the interests of the child's well-being and in preventing disagreements. When the Family Court House was set up, it was decided that the parents in the divorce decision should have a reflection period of 3 months containing a digital learning process with the aim of learning about the child's reactions. As the law is today, it is not possible to get a divorce without completing the reflection period and the digital learning process, and at the same time a forced residence obligation was introduced for the child for the first 3 months after the divorce. Both rules, both the period of reflection with learning courses and the compulsory shared residence, were for the sake of the child. However, not many months passed after the new system and the new rules had entered into force before it was clear to divorce professionals that the period of reflection and the compulsory divided residence caused more unrest and simply escalated the conflicts in many divorce cases and, contrary to intention, affected the children's new rules. Therefore, the government as one of the first to rethink the law. Today, we are faced with consultation responses from a number of actors who unequivocally recommend that both the period of reflection and the period of forced residence should be abolished. That is why we are also proposing amendments to the law. In the Social Democratic Party, we are pleased that with this amendment of the law we are abolishing the period of reflection and compulsory shared residence. In addition, this bill will continue to provide an opportunity for parents to accept the offer of digital learning courses as well as advice and clarification conversations. Parents are the most important carers and those who, if any, have to support the child, but since parents are also in a difficult situation, it is very reasonable that they can also get support and help. It is crucial that parents as primary carers can obtain support to see the situation from the child's perspective. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we are also very pleased that with this proposal we can make the registration of paternity in connection with the birth more flexible, just as with the amendment of the law we specify that parental authority in the event of death should not be decided in family law, as there is no dispute, but that custody can be decided by the Family Court House. So thank you to the government for quickly starting to fix it. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113607	Thank you. Let's move on. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113615	Thank you for the floor. The draft law, which we are discussing here today, mainly deals with two elements: the period of reflection and the compulsory division of residence. Both were introduced with the family law system back in 2018, and both we now want to abolish again with this bill. When we concluded the agreement on the new family law system at the time, the purpose of the reflection period and the compulsory division of residence was to ensure calm and to protect children from the consequences of the divorce of the parents, and most will certainly not object. But since 2018, we've become smarter. In the meantime, we have learned that it may well be that this was the intention behind both the reflection period and the forced division of residence, but unfortunately that was not the case because the children were actually not shielded, perhaps even on the contrary. When key players, with whom I have also held a number of meetings, come forward and say that this actually helps to exacerbate the conflict, then we also have to listen here at Christiansborg, and then we must quickly change things again. We know that when you are in a divorce situation, it is desperate for both parents and, above all, for the children, and that is why we in the Left are very happy that we are quickly getting these things right, because it is in this way that we cannot just turn a blind eye and risk exposing the children to some terrible periods and that they are not at ease. So, as responsible politicians, we must also be able to admit when we do not hit the dial the first time, and we have not done so in this case, even if we had the best intentions. Freedom is one of the things that means a lot to us in the Left, and that is why I am particularly pleased that with this change of law we have done it voluntarily to receive counselling and digital learning programmes. I have to say that I do not believe that there is much to be done with coercion and that we had previously written into the law that parents should be forced through a digital learning process was one of the things that cut into my liberal heart. All in all, I am glad that we are now getting this law decided and, hopefully, in this way, we are going to do better for many children who are going through divorce situations. Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113907	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507113914	Thank you. On 27 March 2018, a broad agreement was reached on a new family law system and family law. And that was not an easy task. Although I did not even take part in the negotiations at the time, I remember that they were difficult and that they were long. Two years later, a majority will now amend the agreement in the form of the bill here, which is about abolishing compulsory shared residence and the period of reflection. In addition, the draft law also contains a number of adjustments to other legislation on the basis of which the new family law system is based. In the Danish People's Party we are of the clear conviction that it is very good to reflect on things when a family is to be dissolved, and we also fought for the reflection period during the negotiations. We would like that period to be reinstated, and so it was, but now we want to abolish it. It was not an easy manoeuvre, but it was what we arrived at, precisely that we had a 3-month period of reflection and that the period had to be used and used constructively: that in the House of Family Rights advice was given targeted advice and clarification, that there was conflict mediation, and that a mandatory digital process was carried out with the aim of creating an understanding of the child's situation and the reactions to the parents' divorce. Now the government is going to abolish this period of reflection, even if you actually know it's worked. According to an article, one in ten couple has been together, and they have not confirmed their divorce, which I think is incredibly positive. So you've just thought well, which is good, even when you have kids together, because we know that it's bad for the kids when Mom and Dad are getting a divorce. But I often hear stories about the Family Court House, and frankly, I have to say that I am deeply concerned. I do not think it is by abolishing the period of reflection and the compulsory divided residence that the enormous challenges that exist are being solved. It is about far too long processing times. I have to say that in this time when large parts have been shut down, it has only worsened the situation, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party have also pressed for a reopening of the House of Family Rights. The limited reopening of the Family Court House, which took place on 24 April, in relation to child conversations and supervised association, is far from enough. I was going to look at the times of the proceedings and, although it has been said how long it must take, it can be seen that per year is the same. 11 March 2020 approx. 2-14 weeks, from the Familieretshuset received a request, until the applicant was informed of the date of a meeting, and then a further approx. 5-24 weeks before the meeting itself took place. Now it's average times, but the buckle is big. So it is our clear conviction that these long processing times are helping to raise the level of conflict, and I believe that that is where we need to take action. There is a need for a thorough user survey of the Family Court House, which needs further quality assurance of the cases, and we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114248	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114302	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that it is good to reflect, and especially when you are a decision-maker, I think it is good to reflect. So I'm glad that the Folketing and the government have reflected on these changes in the family law system, especially those that just turn out not to work after intention. Because there is no doubt that everyone has had the best intentions, just as we all have the best intentions when we have children with someone, to stay together, but that is why some people end up breaking up anyway. And in that case, I think the most important thing is to support those families and children and try to make the best of the situation that is now as it is. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are now having the reflection period abolished. It has not brought peace around the families, on the contrary. And basically, I do not think it is a task for the state to lift the index finger to families where it does not work anymore. Then I am also pleased that we will have to abolish the compulsory split residence. Perhaps it was something that could have been difficult to predict would not work, but it can at least be seen that it does not. And that's why it's good to get it right. Finally, like the Left, I am also pleased that we are now moving on to voluntary counselling of families again on the grounds that I do not believe in coercion helping and that I do not believe that a promise from the state is what you need when you are in a divorce. So Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114437	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. No, it's SF first. When the names are swapped around, I get a little confused. Mrs. Ina Strejer-Schmidt, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114506	Thank you. We believe that parents have made their reflections before they choose to divorce. The rules don't work as intended. Many organisations have pointed out that the level of conflict is increasing and that the procedures for cases which may already be long are also increasing. So I would just like to briefly note that the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114528	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114537	Thank you. Finally, consideration for the child and the child's well-being gained its rightful place in the legislation with the agreement on the new family justice system in 2018, namely, that the child's best interests were at the heart. For too long, the child's well-being has been in the background when parents have found it difficult to find solutions to the problems that may arise in a divorce. For far too long, the child's right to both parents has been misunderstood as both parents' right to the child, and fortunately we are in the process of correcting that. With this bill, as has also been mentioned, we are abolishing two elements of the agreement on the family justice system, namely the compulsory divided residence and the period of reflection on divorces. These were also elements that we opposed in the Enhedslisten during the negotiations in 2018. The scheme was intended to ensure calm about the child in divorces, but unfortunately it has turned out that these initiatives are counterproductive. I would like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the many organisations working on children's conditions and children's rights. They have been quick and skilful, I think, to make all of us aware that there have been major problems with precisely these elements of forced shared residence and reflection period. This has caused great problems for many children. So thank you to the Mother's Help, the Children's Terms, Live without violence, the Children's Council and all of you who have pointed it out to us. This has, of course, resulted in us now making some very necessary adjustments and having the law amended in accordance with the original objective of putting children's well-being first and foremost. That is why I will conclude by concluding that the Enhedslisten naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114738	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507114752	Thank you. When a family experiences divorce, it is one of the most landmark life crises a family can experience. It is for both parents and children. This is certainly not something we should take lightly when we legislate in this area. That is why we also have a tradition in the Folketing to make broad settlements in relation to family law. In this way, we ensure stability and prevent family law from becoming a political battleground with changes every four years. Families in divorce are having a hard enough time already. For the Conservative People's Party, it is heartblood that we retain the reflection period in divorce cases. It means that parents with joint children can only divorce after 3 months when they have applied for a divorce. Since the system was introduced in April last year, many couples have actually dropped the divorce as a consequence of the reflection period. It will now be removed by the government, and that is deeply worrying. The provisional figures indicate that the scheme has an effect. It is certainly not due diligence to abolish a system until we learn more about its functioning. Divorce is a big decision, and it is important for the whole family. The period of reflection offers an additional opportunity to think things through. In the latest agreement concluded by the VLAK government, all parties of the Folketing were involved. Now the government goes solo and wants to scrape the reflection period in divorce cases with this bill. It breaks with all tradition in this area, and the biggest losers become parents and children. We have asked the Minister to call for real negotiations instead of running solo over parties that were included in the agreement in this area. I'm afraid that didn't happen. The government has an ambition that no child should feel ill in Denmark. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has even appointed himself to be the prime minister of the children. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are surprised that the government is now going to remove the period of reflection on which there was, moreover, broad agreement in the Folketing when the agreement was concluded. When parents divorce, it is a big and serious decision in which we, as legislators, must emphasise it with a period of reflection, as we always weigh the best interests of the child and the stability of the family. It's heartblood for us, and we're gonna fight for it. Finally, I would like to ask for the legislative proposal to be split into two, as we can support the rest of the legislative proposal, but not the part with the removal of the reflection period. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115112	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115120	For the sake of my curiosity, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether there are other areas in which the rapporteur believes that we should have a reflection period of three months. After all, there are many important areas on which parents make decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115143	It is true that there are very, very many areas where it is a very good idea to think carefully about, and in precisely this area, when we talk about families and children, it is really, very important, as a divorce is a major change in the lives of children and parents, but now I look at the child's best interests. It is a huge change in the everyday life of children that is of great importance to them. That's why it's a big decision in the families when you decide to divorce. That's why it's okay to have three extra months to think carefully about whether this is the right decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115226	There is no new question. Then it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115237	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. I agree, of course, that we must be careful to do everything possible to help families, and I know that there is a great conservative heart on the part of the rapporteur when it comes to family policy. But right here I am getting a little curious to hear more, because the reason why this bill is coming is precisely because all professionals who work in this area say that this is simply not working. Doesn't that impress the Conservatives at all? I get a little preoccupied with that. The rapporteur also mentions some figures which show that this period of reflection is very good, but it is not some figures that I have seen. So I can be a little curious to hear where the rapporteur has them from.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115330	The reports that come from different organisations always make an impression. We are talking about safeguarding families, and we are talking about the best interests of children when we talk about the period of reflection. There, in the Conservative People's Party, we think it is important that we ensure the best interests of the child and ensure the stability of families. We do, among other things. by saying that if you want to divorce, it's fine just to have an extra period to think carefully about, because it's so intrusive in both the child's and the parents' lives to decide to move each to one's. It means for many children deprivation, and it also means a lot of trouble when it comes to agreeing on how and how the new life is to be. That is why we in the Conservatives believe that it is important that we retain the reflection period as a period in which we are given the opportunity to think again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115432	I don't think I got the answer to that with those numbers. The rapporteur mentioned that the last figures show that the period of reflection is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115445	I don't remember what kind of media they were talking about. However, it is not long since there have been figures that there are actually quite a few parents who have withdrawn their request for divorce during the reflection period. That is what I am referring to. This has certainly proved to have had an effect, for some have withdrawn their request for divorce.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115509	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115513	I also think it would be nice to see specific figures when they are referred to, or at least get a source. I sometimes think things are upside down in this Chamber. So, I think it is the Conservative People's Party that usually argues for personal freedom, personal freedoms, the individual's right to choose in his own life, and also hascelerates courage when the government and municipalities go in and try to make decisions for people in important areas. So I just can't get it to agree with the conservative ideal of freedom, that when it comes to love, we shouldn't be allowed to decide for ourselves whether we want to be with our partner or not, but that we as a state should go in and say, "Don't get divorced yet; you should wait; you should reflect. How does that harmonize with the Conservative ideal of freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115607	Well, that's quite fine. After all, you still have your full right and your full freedom to divorce. All we just want is for you to have three months to think extra about when you've wanted to get divorced. After all, it is still up to the individual family; it is up to the parents themselves to decide whether to divorce or not. We don't get involved in that. We just want an extra little period of thought: is it now the right decision to make that is so important to children's lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115648	Thank you. New question, please, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115654	Well, if I say I want a divorce, and you tell me I can't stay for three months, isn't that a compromise of my freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115711	Well, it's a big thing to make a marriage. It's also a big thing to get a divorce. And you still have your freedom to want a divorce, and you can still be divorced immediately if it's about adultery or violence. So you still have the chance to get divorced. I think it's important that you think carefully when we talk about something as serious as getting a divorce, as you break up a whole family that's about to move apart and now figure out how to make it work in a new way. It is a very, very big upheaval, and that is why I think it is quite good to have three months extra to think carefully about whether this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115800	Thank you. And I'm quite sure that when you say you are, it's in the transferred sense of man and not to mr. Torsten Gejl. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115812	Thank you. Some figures have been referred to in the debate here, and the way I read what's written and followed up on this law, it's 92 percent. Of all families who carry out the divorce they have applied for, only 8% do not. Does the rapporteur really think that this is in line with the great criticism that has been made of this amendment of the law, which is precisely not in the best interests of the child, that is to say, for the good of the child? The rapporteur really thinks that 8%. Is enough to hold onto this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115854	In the Conservative People's Party, we think it is important to protect families, so we think it is important. It has actually turned out that there is, and it actually shows that for some it means something just to have the opportunity to think twice and that you actually reach a different decision. So we think it is important to have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115925	Thank you. I mean, I'm very unwittingly faced with the fact that there are so many organizations that say that this is a problem for the child's best interests and that so many children get into trouble between parents, precisely because there is such a reflection period that the Conservatives then stand on the side of the family unit for so few families' sake instead of actually standing on the side of the children. I find that very incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507115957	Thank you. Now I didn't expect Enhedslisten to understand why we think of it that way either. But I can only repeat that in the Conservative People's Party we uphold the families and we uphold the best interests of the children. We think it is important to think carefully about divorce, as divorce is a huge upheaval for families. It doesn't matter if you think twice, especially when it turns out that there are actually couples who have dropped the divorce during the reflection period.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120034	Thank you. And then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120040	Thank you so much. I would like to start by saying before I give my rapporteur's speech that Mr. Torsten Gejl called for some concrete figures, and the specific figures used by the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party are, after all, the figures of the House of Families. But there is no follow-up, and I just want to say that there was a follow-up on the 122 families who chose not to complete their divorce, and now I quote from Berlingske, who then has these figures and has talked to Danish Family Attorneys: • We are contacted by parents who are really sorry to land during the reflection period and ask us what to do. And then we tell them to drop it and apply for separation instead. And that way they get out of the marriage. Anne Broksø, chairman of Danish Family Attorneys. So we can't actually use these numbers. We don't actually know if the families have chosen separation instead. It was just such a small correction. In New Citizens we have great confidence in the Danes and in Danish families. We believe that they know best for themselves what is best for their family. And that also applies when, unfortunately, the family is to be divided and the parents are to be separated. Breaking a marriage is an incredibly difficult process, especially if there are children involved. I've never actually met anyone who doesn't mean it. And I know about it; I'm divorced myself. However, I got divorced before this law came into force, so fortunately I got rid of the digital learning process in connection with the reflection period when I was getting a divorce. The compulsory shared residence and the reflection period is not a proposal that has grown in our backyard, not at all the digital learning process that is linked to the reflection period. We believe that Danish families know what is best. We have full confidence that they can make the right decision for their families, even if it is a decision to divorce. That is why we support this bill, but we also support it if there are parties that want to divide the bill. It's not a problem for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120256	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120302	Thank you for the floor. The great German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel says somewhere in his main work, the phenomenonology of the Spirit, that Minerva's owl flies in dusk. And what did he mean by that? He meant about the same thing Winston Churchill said when he said during World War II that the Americans always did the right thing once they had exhausted all other options. So what is meant is that wisdom exists, but that it only, like Minerva's owl, goes on its wings at the last minute. This makes me naturally think of this three-month period of reflection, because in the Liberal Alliance we have always known that the period of reflection was a really bad idea, and that is why our social rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl, fought a brave fight to prevent a perfectly bad idea from being implemented. But the majority of the Folketing is always right, at least if it is to say so itself, and therefore this clearly bad idea, which we were against, was implemented. Now the idea has been tested in practice and it has proved to be as poor as we thought it was in the negotiations. It is no shame to use one's right to become wiser, on the contrary. It is a right that you would like many people to use much more often than they actually do. But now it is the Folketing that has chosen to take advantage of the right to become wiser, and of course we support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120445	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120450	Thank you so much. The development and negotiation of the new family law is the longest negotiating period I have ever tried in the Folketing and in any ministry. It took us 3 years to sew it together and change it from the old state assemblies and get it into the courts and build up the family courthouse and everything it means. And we were on a study trip in Norway, where we got very good input, and it was actually a very good negotiation process; very, very wide, that is, between all the parties of the Folketing. And something we were really good at, and it could have been a representative of any party who said that sometimes, once in a while, when we had gotten really far into the discussion, someone said: let's see this from the kids' perspective. Let's just remember to see it from the bottom up, from the kids' perspective. And I thought we were good at that over and over again. So, through the long negotiations, we managed to create a system that has been very much seen from below, that is, through the eyes of children. There are virtually no rapporteurs left in this Chamber, although it was already in the last session that the same rapporteurs were involved in the negotiations. But I can testify that these were constructive negotiations between all parties. There were then some individual knots, and one of them is the one we are discussing here today, with regard to the period of reflection, where there were, yes, some individual parties that thought it was very important and also got it through. And it is a democratic process, which one had to respect. But there was also great opposition to it, including among the bourgeois. For example: Ladies and gentlemen, LA's rapporteur has just as picturesquely explained why this is a really bad idea. And we fought with it in the negotiations for a very long time, but it was not possible to get it out. The majority has changed now, and I am extremely glad that it comes out. Because I actually think it's up to us to decide whether or not we want to divorce and say: this is when I want to divorce. And then it can come into force. But after all, a really, really good thing came out of it because we made a digital program with a wide range of questions for people who are in a divorce process and who are mainly about how to get the children through it best. It is an excellent digital program. It is then no longer mandatory. We tried to make it as mandatory as you could. Of course, it's hard when it's digital. But now it is an offer that I would recommend to all parents who are considering divorce or have decided to go through. These are some really, really good questions that are particularly keen on getting children through such a process in the best possible way. Then something came out of it. But I am glad that the reflection period is now disappearing, because we were certainly not happy with it in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120742	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507120747	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the legislative proposal here, largely. With the draft law, we support what we all want, namely to create the best conditions for divorce children, and we do so by abolishing the two schemes that were introduced not so long ago, namely forced divided residence and the period of reflection. I think it is important to say that it was schemes carried out by the best intentions, but now that it has become apparent that they are both prolonging and stepping up the conflict between parents in divorce and harming their children, in other words that children are paying the price for it, yes, we have to abolish the arrangements, and we also have to do it quickly as we are doing now. Although we are now abolishing these arrangements, I agree with Mr McMahon. Torsten Gejl in that it is important that we maintain the offers in terms of both the digital learning programmes, but of course also the advice and clarification talks that were part of the two schemes. They're being maintained. In fact, the digital learning programme has been evaluated and followed by researchers, and it is so good that other countries have bought it. I've had a meeting with, uh... the Icelandic Minister for Social Affairs because they will now roll it out up there. It is a good thing that something good has come out of it, and it is also good that it will continue to be an offer, just as I am pleased that we continue to offer advice and clarification talks to parents. What matters is that we protect the children well enough. I would just like to add a few words to the debate here, and I am of course available for further answers to questions during the committee procedure. It is true, as Mrs Mette Thiesen explained, that the figures that have been available include: In Berlingske, it cannot be taken as an indication that the spouses have decided to stay together. It may also mean that they have chosen to go another way in the divorce system. It may be that they disagreed on the terms of the divorce and thus withdrew the application. We don't know. I would also just like to say that for me, when we talk about the divorce system, it is absolutely crucial that we think about the child's best interests. And very, very few divorces come out of the blue, so you wake up one morning and then you want a divorce. In this way, the formal application is, unfortunately, often preceded by hard periods in which the children have already paid a price for parental disunity. That is why I would just like to say that I appreciate the fact that we have a tradition of broad conciliation here and even very long negotiations, but the best interests of children are most important here. And that is why it was crucial for me to be able to deal with the amendment of the law now, so that it could enter into force, instead of having a long run, when, after all, there is as broad a support as there is in the Folketing, and could only table the bill after the summer holiday and only have it come into force at the end of the year or at the beginning of the next one. So the children must come first, and I do so with the peace of mind that there is such broad support in the Folketing. I would just like to say, in relation to the long waiting times in the Family Court House, that I fully agree that this is something we are all shocked about, but that it is something that here the divorce system is born with. You can't wipe it off on the current government. This divorce system with the Family Court House was born with severe underfunding, which is why the Finance Law parties have spent over 100 million. kr. on our first Finance Act. I don't think I'll reveal too much if I say that money we could have spent on other good things. But we've spent over 100 million. kr. On lifting the Family Court, because this divorce system was so underfunded from the start. That is why I would just like to say that it is a broad concern and concern that we have here in the Danish Parliament to reduce waiting times. We cannot shoot at the government with this; it is a joint task that we have, following it very closely and also following what has happened in the wake of the corona crisis, which of course has a consequence. But we have had a good debate, I think, where we have all had an interest in the best interests of the child. And I can't believe we both had to go past Hegel and Churchill... it's not every day you see it in social policy debates in the Folketing. We're taking that along, and we could have missed our own Kierkegaard. There is no shame in becoming wiser. These were some schemes that were made with the best intention, based on a desire to protect the children. It has proved to be the opposite of what happened, which is why I am also very pleased that so broad a majority in the Folketing now takes responsibility for putting an end to those arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121209	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121216	Thank you. First of all, I must also say that I think it is a bad thing that, once an agreement has been reached across parties, and a legislative proposal has been made, so that within a year and it has had an effect, it will be changed again. In the Danish People's Party we fought for the reflection period, and then you talk a lot about the child's best interests. But I think you can ask a lot of children what their dream is and that they will answer that, if they could decide, they would like Mom and Dad to stay together and that they could dance around the Christmas tree together as a family. I think that will be the highest wish of most children, and then, of course, there can be some other things in it. So I think it is really a pity, and they say that the figures are not really useful. No, but what we know at least is that about one in ten haven't completed this divorce, and then you can look into it. So you can examine the background and you can examine the figures and you can dive into it. But I must also say that I think it is a bad thing. In fact, I believe that the reflection period has contributed to the fact that a lot of people have thought very well about an extra time and have also stayed together, and I think that is very good. So I just think it is really a pity that the government is now choosing to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121344	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121346	I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I don't think you're gonna find a child who doesn't want many years after the parents' divorce and dream that their parents had stayed together. We simply cannot legislate out of this in the Folketing, and it is not the case that one in ten has not carried out a divorce on the basis of these figures. They may have carried out a divorce in another way. They may have dropped the application they had made because they had disagreed on the terms and submitted a new one. The figures cannot be used in the way the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party do. But put some questions to it in committee and then we can have it pierced. What is crucial here is that we protect the children and look after the children, but in addition to what the rapporteur says about what children dream of, that is, that their parents, if they cannot stay together, can be in room together and treat each other properly • We see, unfortunately, divorces where things are going very wrong • Just confirms that it means that there is support from the Danish People's Party for us to maintain the advice and clarification conversations that were part of these processes, including the digital learning process. Because we all have an intention and a desire from here to do what we can to make divorces as gentle as possible, first and foremost for children, but if we can do something to help adults get through better, it is also good and worth taking along.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121509	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121512	In the Danish People's Party we believe that children have the right to a mother and a father. They have the right to their mother and to their father, and I just have to say that I see some challenges. Now the Minister says that the government cannot be blamed for the family courthouse and the system and that the funding was born with a mistake. However, I think that it is the same figures who are sitting in the Ministry of Finance now, who also sat there earlier, and this is about getting things right. It's about helping the families, and I know it has been shown; I've also talked to several people who have thought very carefully that that reflection period has worked too many, and now they don't even get the chance because you remove it, and that despite being able to get divorced anyway, if it was that they were subjected to violence or something else. I think it is really important when you enter into a marriage and it is important, and therefore it is also very good that you think twice before you divorce, especially when there are children, and I think that many people do. But now you simply remove the possibility of it, which means that when, you can say, the conflicts are running high, it is not always, you think equally rationally, and that is why it is good that you have a period of reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121634	But I simply disagree deeply, and in relation to the reversal of the fact that you can think twice about it, I have to say that we hear from the actors in this area that it means escalating the conflicts, that this is serious for the children that the children get caught. And even if you said that you could use the figures that the Danish People's Party uses them, that is, that one in ten ends up staying together, then nine out of ten children are caught up in violent, escalating conflicts. I cannot stand by that and, by the way, the figures cannot be used in this way. So you can't even put it that way. That is why, when you keep saying that they have the opportunity to think carefully, I have to say that it has not been banned. You still have to think carefully before you get divorced. We haven't banned that. What we have removed is the requirement and the compulsion that one should stay together because we have been able to hear how much it harms the children. Then adults must always think, and I think everyone would hope that we had fewer conflicting divorces, which is why it is also good that we maintain consultation and clarification discussions and digital processing processes. But we just cannot make it clear through legislation that you must not have bad divorces in this country and that you must always be grown up enough to look after your child properly. Some people cannot do that, and so we must do what we can to ensure that the rules protect the children as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121746	Thank you. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121752	Thank you. As Mr. Torsten Gejl mentioned, we had some very long and constructive negotiations, which is why I think it is really a pity that the Minister is running solo over the parties involved in the agreement here and will not call for real negotiations in this area. That is why I would like to hear about something: why is it that the Minister does not want real negotiations in this area, since it is now the case that there is a tradition in the Folketing when we talk about family law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121835	Actually, I tried to answer that in my pickup, but let me do it again. Now it is a question of two very specific arrangements, compulsory divided residence and period of reflection, which we want to abolish and which a broad majority wants to abolish, and in which my book does not make much sense to say that we should then have a long process of negotiation, because it is not the case that we can do away with it a little; either we have as a principle forced the division of residence or the period of reflection, or we do not have it. Then you could start turning up and down the weeks, but there is now a broad majority who want to shield the children by listening to the experts in the area who have shouted guard in the rifle even very strongly. When things have gone as fast as they are, it is because the Folketing is working, as the Folketing is working, so if we could not bring this bill forward in a way where we have the first reading here today, the reality would be that we would be behind schedule and would only be able to put it forward in the autumn, and then many more children would have to live for a long time with the increased pressure and conflict level that comes with forced divided residence and this reflection period. And I do not think any of us can live with that when there was no reason to do so, because we were able to see in advance that there was a majority behind the abolition of the two systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121945	Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507121947	Thank you. Then I have another question. With the period of reflection, the families still have their full right and freedom to divorce, and then I would like to hear whether the Minister does not protect the families and the best interests of the child, because if a family can actually make it work again during a period of reflection, it will mean that the family can just as well stay together and the child will have its safe and stable everyday life. It also turns out that many times, when families have divorced, there are a great many conflicts surrounding association, which are really hard for children and where children suffer deprivation in their daily lives compared to the other parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122037	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122038	It is not in the child's best interests that, with our reform of the divorce system, we have created two elements that experts have shouted guard in arms and alarm against, because it increases the level of conflict in the divorce families, and because it prolongs the period when the child is stuck between two parents who can't figure out how to be decent adults and look after their child properly in a difficult, difficult situation where they have to divorce. With this, we are not forbidding thinking, with this we are not forbidding you to pull the plug on a divorce application and sit down to find out if you can find out again, but in fact we are still making sure that there are the counselling and clarification processes that have always been there. So I think we are striking the right balance with the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122117	Thank you. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122120	Thank you very much. However, this is an incredibly sad debate to listen to. It sounds like every divorce parent is mad at each other and we have injured kids everywhere. I also find it sad that some quick solutions might be made. I stand as a local politician in the situation that I am also a married man, and I enjoy it every time I can marry a couple who have chosen each other for the future and as married couples. But I have also experienced during the period when you could get a quick divorce, that I actually married some for the second time because they got divorced too quickly. So I would like to ask the Minister if you have any figures on how many people have regretted these quick divorces and have been married again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122213	I do not know if we have these figures, but we can obtain them in committee. However, if I am to keep the two considerations against each other, namely children who get pinched in divorces, where the level of conflict is increasing and when the period they are in trouble gets longer, stopped against the genes by getting married again, because one finds out that one really likes each other rather well and wants to be married, I just have to say that I weigh it somewhat higher, that we protect the children than what the questioner describes as a married man.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122245	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122246	The minister speaks well for his cause. I also feel that the Minister is pushing a lot of children in front of him by continuing to talk about the best interests of the children. I am thinking of all those who can save a marriage where the children stay in the family and where they actually find solutions to it rather than finding challenges and problems. After all, some of the children we can look back on have actually been helped. I am concerned at least a great deal, precisely because I have seen another picture of it. But it is clear that it is the Minister's legislative proposal, and it is clear that it is the right way to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122331	If we had now seen that the period of reflection meant that unhappy divorces ended up being happy continued marriages, that no conflict grew and that no child got into further trouble, surely no one had stood in this Chamber today and thought that we should change it here. We have just heard from the actors in the field that it has been serious for quite a lot of children that we have invented this on the basis of the best intentions. I am not saying at all that anyone has done this with the intention that children should get caught. But we can see that something has happened other than what we thought. We thought it would provide an opportunity for more people to stay together, for more children to have the dream fulfilled, for their parents to be happy together, but the opposite has happened, namely that more children have been trapped and for longer periods of time, and then we have to act. So this isn't about saying there have been bad intentions. There hasn't. It has been on the basis of the best intentions that these two arrangements have been made. It just hasn't worked that way in real life. And the reality must therefore trump the ideas put forward on paper in a political negotiating room. At least I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122432	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122445	On paragraphs 10 and 11, I should like to point out that the Minister for Development Assistance is replacing the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Elderly. It is clear to me that all the rapporteurs are in agreement with this. We shall then proceed to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122505	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122528	Thank you. It should not be a secret that I have looked forward very much to standing here with you today, when the government has just put forward proposals for unpaid dental care for the most socially vulnerable citizens, because this is a very good proposal we are dealing with here. It is a proposal that addresses one of the most direct and visible manifestations of inequality in health, namely our teeth. It is not certain that we all go and think about it every day, but anyone who has had a toothache knows how much it means to your quality of life when chewing the food suddenly becomes a pain hell, and for many socially vulnerable people it is not something that just passes over again, because it only gets worse. On top of that comes also the social stigmatization that is and may be in having very bad teeth. In connection with the Finance Act, money was set aside to introduce free dental care for the most socially vulnerable citizens, so first of all, thank you to all parties behind the Finance Act for helping to find the money for this important proposal. With today's legislative proposal, if it is adopted, we are now establishing the legal basis for social care that can help the most vulnerable citizens, so that they get higher and better dental health and thus also higher and better quality of life. The municipalities must now create an offer for the most vulnerable citizens, where emergency pain-solving and functional treatment can be provided free of charge, because we must recognise that, as we have set up our system today, there are many socially vulnerable people who are unfortunately being lost. They are not in a position to pay the self-payment that comes with a trip to the dentist, and if they have at all started to provide the various municipal subsidy schemes, there are also many who get lost here. Therefore, many people never go to the dentist, even when the teeth literally begin to fall out of their mouths. With the new socialand care, socially vulnerable people can receive both assistance for acute pain relief treatment, such as infection, swelling or injury or other acute condition, and they can receive functional dental treatment, including preventive advice and guidance, in relation to how they maintain the treatment they receive. Many socially disadvantaged people do not necessarily address the dentist, which is why it is both good and necessary that the proposal contains an obligation to do outreach work among the socially vulnerable, which ensures that they are offered treatment, at least all those who are in the target group, because we know that there are many who do not find their way to dental care. The target group here in the proposal is streetless and citizens using shelters, heating rooms and bedrooms, all because of homelessness, and therefore it is also obvious that the work and further work that the government is going to do is in close cooperation with those who already work with socially vulnerable people, so that we ensure that we get in touch with the people in the target group. I am also pleased to read that there are a great many organisations that welcome the proposal, and I hope for broad and strong support for the bill in the Parliamentary Chamber today, so that we can together ensure better conditions for socially vulnerable people, and equally important that we can ensure more equality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122839	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507122844	Thank you. In the Left, we want to contribute to a significant increase in the quality of life for the socially vulnerable, and I see no doubt that healthy teeth are crucial to the well-being of many socially vulnerable and can be a lever for a better life. It is not only my claim, but also the experience of a number of studies that have confirmed that teeth are obviously important for chewing function, digestion and appearance, but also for quality of life and for feeling stigmatisation. Fortunately, most of us experience only in short periods of life the pervasive pursuit of toothaches, but unfortunately there are also people who almost constantly have to live with tooth holes, broken teeth, inflammation of the gums or tooth abscesses. In the Left, we fully support not only the intention, but also the concrete content of this legislative proposal, which, as the Socialist rapporteur said, is about introducing social dental care targeted at the very weakest in our society. So good for it. But having said that, I think that both the socially vulnerable and the municipalities and, for that matter, the dentists lack an overview of the many subsidy schemes that exist in this area. Or, as the comments on the bill put it very precisely: according to current legislation, several dental care and dental care schemes exist, for which the socially vulnerable may be in the target group. In other words, this bill, however good it may be at both the concrete level and in the intention, is, of course, another knock-on fire on top of an already imperceptible jumble of various subsidy schemes, and, as I said, I think it is from the perspective of both the municipalities, from the point of view of dentists, but perhaps most importantly from the point of view of the socially vulnerable. In fact, we agree on all this here in the Parliamentary Chamber, or rather, we were. For all the parties of the Danish Parliament, in February 2018 an agreement was concluded, which includes: should provide a survey of the existing schemes in the Danish dental care, which includes the following: adult dental care, child care and youth care, care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the nursing staff, regional care, special treatment of certain medical conditions, subsidies in special cases under the Act on Active Social Policy, and personal allowances and health allowances respectively under the Social Pension Act. Furthermore, known local schemes should also be included in the survey. One can almost get completely out of breath by recounting all the schemes. In a written reply to the Danish Parliament's Health Committee, to Mrs Liselott Blixt and I respectively, on 6 November and 22 November 2019 respectively, i.e. last year, the Minister has announced that the analysis work is continuing, but that the analysis needs are greater than initially assumed. Now, therefore, more than two years have passed since the analysis was launched and, in fact, it is still missing, and instead of ensuring completion, the government's response is to put another dimension to an already, yes, incalculable legal complex. We in the Left can in fact support this bill, but we simply think that if the Minister for Development is given the opportunity to speak to the Minister for Health, he should say that it is time to get this analysis done, so that we can start real political negotiations which can, as it were, bring this whole incalculable legal complex to a halt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507123318	Thank you. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507123322	It's just before I thought someone stole my speech. I would like to start by saying that I think it is very good that we are now offering the homeless and other socially disadvantaged an outreach effort and a free dental visit. It is incredibly important for many of these people that they can get a quick and good treatment, as many today have a toothless smile and unfortunately also a lot of pain in their teeth that has not received the optimal treatment. However, we can also see the challenges that will be of getting agreements with them. I hope that the municipalities will take it on board and ensure that citizens can be picked up and transported or come out with a mobile dental clinic for them, otherwise we will know that this will be difficult, as well as being pointed out in the hearings. So, of course, we vote yes. But having said that, as the Danish People's Party's health rapporteur, I would like to say that I am deeply, deeply disappointed. I am deeply disappointed that the Minister for Health is once again making another proposal for the pile of other solutions to someone's tooth problems, rather than ensuring that we get started with the reform that the previous government launched two years ago. But maybe it's just supposed not to be taken up again at all. It is not to be treated that there is just a knobbing on the knobbing. You just drive on and don't do anything for many of the people who today can't afford to go to the dentist. You don't do anything about the lack of dentists. We've heard they can't find a dentist on Funen. There are waiting lists to get there. There are huge challenges in this area and for two years nothing has been done by this government. We have been in negotiations, so it cannot be said that it takes time. We, all parties, have sat with the former Minister of Health under the previous government and negotiated and been really, really close, and we have also had experts from other countries and the Health Authority inside, everyone else, and we have received a lot of information. We can start with that all over again, because we have gradually forgotten it, and new rapporteur has arrived, and I do not know what. Nothing else happens except that you come up with another paragraph. Because I wrote them down. We can see in the proposal that there are § 133, § 82, § 14, § 18, § 17, and then there is § 166. It is bureaucracy and administration that swallows up the money that should perhaps go to those people who need to get their teeth fixed. I simply do not think that is okay. We also know that there are many. We look at the Herlev model, which does something about many of the socially vulnerable, as an example of how to spread it in Denmark. Now you come up with a new thing that needs to be spread again. Well, I don't think that's fair. I think we need a Minister for Health, we need a government to ensure that reform is taken up. Nor can we be familiar with the dentists. They have no agreement on this matter. But that way you're free to give money to the area. So, yeah, I'm gonna get a little pissed off. We can say yes to this because they deserve to have their teeth fixed, but we need to have an answer, and we are asking some questions during committee reading: when are you going to get the negotiations started in relation to a broad reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507123708	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507123737	Thank you for the floor. I am a standin today for SF's health rapporteur Kirsten Normann Andersen, who is unfortunately in negotiations elsewhere. That's why I have to read a speech. It sounds like this: Denmark has long cherished on having equal and free and free access to the health system, but that is only partly true, because we still have a total or partial user fee for, among other things. dentist. That relationship helps create inequality in health and thus reduce the quality of life for a great many citizens. That is why socially vulnerable citizens, as also mentioned in the comments to the bill, have significantly worse health on their teeth than the rest of the population. Of course, this is not sustainable, both because it reduces dental health, but it also reduces the quality of life, and a lack of dental treatment can also lead to more somatic diseases, among others. in the heart area. That is why we are pleased that we are now putting a little on top of the many support schemes that exist, with the latest financial agreement, so that we can now help vulnerable people much better. We think we could have gone further so that municipal dental treatment offers became mandatory for vulnerable citizens. I can at least say that, as former chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I have at least seen this from the more practical point of view, and that is why I think it is good that, as several rapporteurs have noted, there is also some outreach in this, because it is really difficult for people at risk to come to the dentist. Many of them are afraid to show up, so there is simply a need for some who can follow them during the day and calm them and comfort them. This is certainly our experience from Kolding Municipality. But it is also a real challenge to complete the paperwork that often comes with it. It's not something they can do for themselves. So there is simply a need for a very handheld effort in this area. I would also like to say, as others have said in this Chamber today, that it is also important for the SF that we extend the offer of free dental care. One of our thoughts about this is that at least the young people between the ages of 18 and 24 could be the next target group, but also some of the citizens who, because of medical treatment, are getting worse dental health. In any case, as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I have also been familiar with early retirement in particular. You typically become an early-retirer for one reason, namely that you are ill, and then medical treatment comes with you. It costs a lot of money. Some of this also gives dry mouth, which means you're gonna need extra dental treatment. They can't afford that because they're on an early retirement. This means again that where the rest of us would have repaired our teeth, they will have their teeth pulled out, because it is much cheaper to pull out a tooth. Their teeth get so progressively worse. I think these are obvious places where we can look when we need to expand next time. But it does not shake the fact that this proposal is, of course, also a step forward for dental health, and we are very pleased about it, and that is why we support it in the SF too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124053	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124056	Thank you. Now I know that it is not the right health rapporteur, but the rapporteur's speech says that we hope that next time we will have this group. I would like to know whether the Socialist People's Party would like us to have a reform in which we involve all those who have dental problems. In fact, there are ordinary people working today who cannot afford it with their teeth, and we know precisely, as the rapporteur also said, that it causes other diseases. It can cause a tendency to clots and all sorts of other diseases. So wasn't it better to get a reform done?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124137	I think it is quite right that this is the first step in something bigger, because there are a lot of people who have great challenges in getting paid for their dental care. I have mentioned two of the areas here, but one could well imagine that there were far more and that there might be a need for reform. Now, for good reasons, I have not been involved in the previous work, which sounds to have been thorough and thorough, but I hope that if there is an analysis somewhere and has yet to be completed, it will be completed so that we can have an overview of this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124212	But some of what we know is that when we take this piece by piece, it creates an incredible amount of bureaucracy and administration. The rapporteur also mentioned this, namely the need to fill out some forms. Cancer patients find it difficult to document how their dental position has been before they received radiation or chemotherapy, and many of the young people who can get also have difficulty in documenting. It takes time, resources, money that we could spend on something else if we had a reform that brought in every citizen in a way. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124244	In SF we fight for phasing out the user fee. We recognise that we are probably not going to get the whole thing right at the same time. I think there is a need for reform, and I believe that there is a need to look at more groups than the ones we are looking at today, because there are simply people who cannot afford dental treatment at all, and that is the case among other things. Very many early retirement pensioners too, where I think some think that they should be able to afford their dental treatment. But if you already spend a lot of money on medicine and have challenges with dental health, then you have to choose the cheapest solution, and it will typically be to tear the tooth out, where the rest of us will say that we will get it repaired, and then it costs something of course. That means, of course, that these people's teeth are getting worse and worse, and I really do not think that is acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124331	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124344	Thank you. Today, at last, we have to deal with the implementation of the part of the Finance Act which provides funds for dental care to the most socially vulnerable. It should not be a secret that this is something we in the Enhedslisten have been working for for a long time. That is why we are also pleased that we have now managed to move one step along the road. With the bill, we are establishing a municipal social care service to provide free and acute pain-solving and functional care to the most socially vulnerable citizens. Of course, we warmly support this in the Enhedslisten. It is an effort in which we extend the municipal dental care so that more socially vulnerable people can get help through it. It has been tested in several places, and it actually works really well. There must be better time for citizens, and there must be targeted and outreach. It pays to help vulnerable people who have pains in their teeth, both human and economic. When you are in great pain, it can be difficult to step out of drugs that soothe pain, and it's everything else just easier to have social contact and get on the way to a life without homelessness when the dental kit is okay and doesn't smell and hurt. We are very pleased with the proposal, but of course we would have liked to have had a more comprehensive proposal. We would have liked much more in the long term to be included in the proposal. This is true, for example. citizens with severe mental disorders or people who are enrolled in a shelter but who otherwise belong to the target group. We would also like solutions that include everyone on transfer income, both the elderly, who only have the lowest folk pension, young people who fall out of the schemes when they go from school to private care, and cash benefit recipients and people on integration benefits. It is clear that what is the objective is, of course, to ensure that there is no user charge, even for dental health. The fact that this special scheme is necessary at all is, of course, very much about the existing arrangements, for example. Under paragraphs 82 and 82a, not functioning sufficiently well. It is difficult to obtain aid and the self-payment is too high for many of those who should have been helped. The possibility of recovering aid for the payment of own funds is also bureaucratic, and many municipalities do not make use of it. We can see from the Finance Act that there is not a single year since 2012, when we had the rules in place that should give entitlement to aid where the whole amount has been spent. A total of 180 million was set aside. kr. a year, but often somewhere between 95 million and 95 million is spent. kr. and 150 million kr. a year. These will be some of the elements we will be discussing in committee. We would also like to have a look at the visitation system there. In the model proposed, there is a lack of professionalism. The socially vulnerable are not guaranteed that it will not be a long process, from finding a need to being treated. When it comes to this target group, it's crucial that it doesn't take long and it's not difficult. We would also like to see additional commitments added to the restoration of dental kits. It is of great social importance to have your teeth, and we therefore believe that this target group should also have the opportunity to get help in setting up the dental kit. However, in particular, we are looking forward to the debate on adult dental care with high expectations, and there we also expect that we will be able to include some of the elements that we will not be able to cover here. There are major problems with the existing systems and we hope that the government here will take serious action in relation to reducing the huge inequality in health that arises because for some reason health in the mouth costs money while disease in the knee is free. In Article 134, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4, it is proposed that the Minister be given the opportunity to lay down detailed rules on the content, scope, organisation and use of resources in the new scheme. We will also try to clarify in committee how the relatively far-reaching authorisation should be exactly implemented. However, as I have said, the proposal here is a small step on the way to reducing inequalities in health by making it a little easier for the socially disadvantaged to have a completely justified access to improving their dental health. We still have some way to go before we can guarantee equal and free access to dental treatment. Today we take a small step. That is why Enhedslisten can also support the bill, and I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today, and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124805	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124808	Thank you very much. It is rare for me to have the opportunity to ask two parties at once, but when you speak on behalf of Radicals, you also represent them, so now I ask both Radicals and Enhedslisten whether they will help to push for the reform that everyone agreed on two years ago, so that we ensure that everyone gets proper dental health and that there is equality in health in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124832	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124833	I would now like to make it clear that I am speaking on behalf of the Enhedslisten. I have promised the Radicals to salute them and say what their position is on this bill, but I do not think I can say that I have the authority to speak on their behalf when I am asked directly. However, I would very much like to reply on behalf of the Enhedslisten. Yes, we are so looking forward to getting the debate on adult tooth care started. I can also hear from the debate in this Chamber today that there is broad support for this. In particular, I am pleased to hear that there is also support for us to have reduced the self-payment that is in dental care. So I think it is so important that we get the debate on adult dental care going again and, in particular, that we focus on reducing inequality in dentistry. I can then point out that the Enhedslisten in our 100-day plan, if Mrs Liselott Blixt should not have had the opportunity to read it, has raised the proposal to completely remove user charges. It is a proposal that will cost about 7.4 billion. kr., but I look forward to being able to find the means together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124938	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507124939	Now I am not reading all of the Enhedslisten's proposals, because you want to give it all away and find the money out in the North Sea. We have just said from the Danish People's Party that this is something that is close to us, and that is why we asked for reform in this area. I would say that one thing is that you do not speak on behalf of Radicals. In other words, we have agreed to put on another minister, but that we do not have health rapporteurs present either, who can help to create a debate on an important proposal and an important reform that affects all people in Denmark, I think is sad. But it was just important for me to hear whether we would be fighting for this reform, because then we could take it into the committee work and demand an answer from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125025	I think Mrs Liselott Blixt would have great pleasure in reading some more of the publications coming from the Enhedslisten. This could help to raise the level of knowledge. In addition, however, I would just like to say that I agree that we need to focus on this issue, and I also do not hear any opposition to us getting these negotiations started. I think it is absolutely crucial that we get the very important welfare area raised by dental care and that we can continue to work to remove user charges in that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125058	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125103	I will immediately go over some publications from the Enhedslisten when we finish the treatment here. We're going on a prayer day vacation, too. I'm gonna need to hear sir. Peder Hvelplund: When does Mr. Peder Hvelplund, it would be timely for the government to call these negotiations? Could one imagine that we could put common pressure on the government, so we said something like it should be here before the summer break, or what does Mr. Peder Hvelplund about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125132	So, I think it is quite reasonable that we should ask the Minister and the government what the timetable is and whether we should not get these negotiations started as soon as possible. I am not going to put specific dates on. I think that the period we are in right now shows with all due clarity that it can be difficult to say when such a thing can be put into effect. However, I fully agree that we can ask the Minister to announce a time horizon in relation to when we can get the negotiations started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125203	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125209	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill. Healthy teeth are really important to the individual, and we also know that dental diseases can be completely fatal and have major consequences for your health if you are affected by other somatic diseases. In fact, I thought that there were offers of free dental treatment for the weakest people in our society, and also that the municipalities were doing outreach work among the homeless and those who live in shelters and on the streets, drug addicts and other highly socially vulnerable. This does not turn out to be the case in general, which is why we are also pleased that the target group mentioned is now being taken care of. The question then is whether individual municipalities are not doing the job today. When you go through the text, you can see that there are municipalities that have been mentioned. There are also some rate pool projects that have been running for some periods. So, in Randers and Copenhagen and Svendborg Municipalities some projects are mentioned. But we can get that figured out. When you go through the matter, you have to say that the legislation at least in the field of finance is incredibly complex, and I can be completely in doubt as to whether the municipalities are able to administer the area properly. So there is an urgent need for debureaucratisation, and I think it would be appropriate for us to go with us now to have negotiations on the subject, in exactly the same way as we also need to ensure that we create considerably more capacity in the field of teeth forward-looking. Because we can see that there are long, long waiting lists in the dental field, and there will actually be a great shortage of dentists in the future if we do not tighten up. There are just too few people who are being trained, and we should certainly take care of that too. However, as I said, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125420	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125425	Thank you. We looked at this bill and there were many positive things about it, and it's nice, and it's good that we can help some of the socially disadvantaged to get better dental care. But I was stunned by one thing that I hope we can look at in committee. Because here we are putting in a premise that they must be homeless in order to be able to access this, and I think that is problematic. Some of these need dental surgery, which may cost 50,000 to 60,000 kroner, and we also want fewer homeless people. So if they're gonna have the choice to say that you can get a home or you can get your teeth fixed because if you say yes to the home, you can't get an offer to get your teeth fixed. I think that's problematic. That we put at risk in such a torment that we say that if you actually take courage, and if you manage to get into a home, then suddenly lose the opportunity to get help and get your teeth fixed, I find this problematic. Then we also welcome the start of a major reform of this area. I understand from the other rapporteurs that, before New Citizens came to Parliament, it was evidently some debates that had been going on for a number of years, but we are happy to enter into constructive negotiations on it, and in this analysis we would like to see it fully clarified and in relation to the overall public health, what it is like if we now receive less user charges. After all, there has been a significant increase in user charges in this area, up to 83%. Today, and then the subsidy for dental cleansing is removed, and some other subsidies are removed, which now makes us one of the places in Europe that has the highest user payments on it. That is why we need to look at it and ask whether it actually harms public health and how much can be financed by the fact that public health actually improves if you had less user charges. So we are happy to enter into some discussions on this. But I hope we can look at this with the fact that we're not putting homeless people in a difficult situation where they have to choose between teeth or housing. We do not think this is fair in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125639	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125642	Thank you for the floor. A lot of good things have already been said about this bill, so I do not have to do it unnecessarily far, but just say that we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125655	Thank you. Then it's the working minister for health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507125700	Thank you very much. After all, the chairman of the Danish Parliament has informed us that the Minister for Health is prevented. sitting in the negotiations with the party leaders at Marienborg. That is why I am acting Minister for Health and would like to say that this particular draft law makes me particularly happy to be allowed to fill in today, because being able to ensure better dental health for the most socially vulnerable is really a step in the right direction. I would like to thank you very much for the many good comments and for the dedicated contributions from the rapporteurs and for the very positive reception of the draft law here. The inequality in dental health in Denmark is great, and I would also like to say for the whole 42 per cent. of socially vulnerable citizens have fewer than 20 teeth in their mouths. That's how it is for comparison only for 5%. of the rest of the population. The bad teeth affect the health and quality of life of a group of people who are already well challenged. Bad dental health is not only cosmetic, but it is related to many things that we others take for granted: being able to eat, being painless, being able to smile, being able to kiss, being able to enter the labour market. When you do not have a roof over your head or afford the next meal, it may not be just a dental visit that you give priority to next. You may not have any air in the budget for a dentist's bill or the profit to get an appointment with the dentist. Indeed, just the thought of entering the door of an ordinary dentist can seem completely humiliating, and then the holes in the teeth just grow bigger and bigger if there are teeth at all that can be holes in. We must combat inequality in health and also dental health, and this is where the legislative proposal is one of several steps that we are taking. With this bill, we can help the most vulnerable citizens very much for relatively little money. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the alternative for the fact that we have been able to conclude this agreement to allocate money to unpaid dental care in the context of the 2020 Finance Act. With the draft law, the municipalities will, from 1 July 2020, offer unpaid acute pain-solving and functional dental care to citizens with special social problems who cannot use other dental care services. It is therefore streetless, citizens who can use shelters, heating rooms and rooms because of homelessness, and citizens who cannot stay in their own homes, we are now making a new offer. In addition, we allow municipalities, on the basis of concrete assessments, to offer unpaid pain-solving and function-building dental care to other vulnerable citizens, perhaps some of them, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, from New Citizens' Party, was involved in the debate which, due to special social problems, could not use other dental services. It is clear that such a scheme presupposes a certain amount of outreach work on the part of the municipalities, among others. street and social workers, staff in shelters, heating rooms, rooms, drug consumption rooms and similar low-threshold services have a significant role to play. It is my impression that the municipalities are ready so that we can have a dental care offer that can help to increase the quality of life and dental health of the most socially vulnerable citizens and reduce further marginalisation. I hope that the draft law here will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, I will reply to the committee's questions during the debate. I have taken note of the various speeches that have been made in this Chamber. There have been strong, committed contributions from all of you. In particular, I note that Mr. Left. Martin Geertsen, Danish People's Party Mrs Liselott Blixt, but also Enhedslisten's Mr. Peder Hvelplund mentions the whole reform work, this whole model work for whether we cannot make all this effort much more transparent, less bureaucratic and better. I've been asking about this before I went to the Chamber, and it's the government's clear wish to put turbo on this job. As has also been suggested in some of the speeches that have been made, we have been in a situation where, because of corona and others, we have not been able to work at the same pace as we have wanted, and I understand that, as soon as we have the opportunity to do so, we are putting turbos on this work, and it is the Government's wish that we should go beyond the steppes with reform and model work in this area. So I can say on behalf of the government that we look forward to making a model in a broad cooperation in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130221	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130223	Thank you very much. First: I do not think it is right that you can blame the covid-19 for the fact that everything stops. Everything's gonna stop! That is simply not fair. Covid-19 has been around for two months. There's been plenty of time. We're talking about almost two years. We agreed on this in February. So it's over two years. To the bill itself, of course, I would like to know first of all whether we are sure that it will go to Danish citizens. Then, of course, I will also hear when we can count on our being called to negotiations. When's the official group done? In relation to the bill: How much of this money goes to administration, and how much goes to dental care? Has it been calculated? It is not in the proposal; it simply says that the money will be distributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130331	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party for the good questions. Of course you can't blame Covid-19 and Corona for all delay. That goes without saying. I shall not be able to answer what has gone wrong. After all, it is a delay that has taken place, both under the previous government and now under the current government. What I have been told before I went to this Chamber is that it has been suggested that the first negotiations should be held here in March. So that's because of corona, and that's why I'm referring to it. I really hope that this is not seen as a bad excuse on the part of the government. We take it very seriously, and we are really, really happy that Mrs Liselott Blixt and the Danish People's Party are sticking to the fire and pushing, because this work is important, no doubt about it, and it is the health minister's clear wish to get over the steppes with this. When questions are asked about the completely technical clarification of who is covered, etc., I must point out that we have to reply in writing to how this is related. I am acting Minister for Health here today and I have just tried to get the answer. I did not have time to get it, but it may be that if Mrs Liselott Blixt asks another question, it is then ticked onto my screen, and then I shall give the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130448	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130449	That is quite all right; the Minister is sorry. I would also like to say that the explanation of why the March meeting was cancelled was a little better. It was because there was something else. It's okay. But then we might also be able to find out when the official group is finished. As I have mentioned before, these are some meetings we have held with the former government's Minister for Health, and we have actually held several meetings, so there is already a great deal of material. So that's why we're impatient. However, I would just like to say thank you and say that there will be committee questions to which the right Minister for Health and the elderly can respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130530	Thank you very much for the patience of Mrs Liselott Blixt and the Danish People's Party with this. I understand the impatience with regard to all this work on reform. That is the clear wish that we should quickly go beyond the steppes, and we will get to work on that. Fortunately, it is the case that patience here paid off because there is actually an answer to my text, and what is at issue is that citizens who are legally resident in Denmark are covered by this. So that is the answer, but Mrs Liselott Blixt is welcome to ask a written question, and then we can reply quite precisely. But it is therefore a legal residence in Denmark that determines whether or not one is covered by the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130614	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130617	I have just one reflection, because I think the Minister for Development is legally apologetic about being Minister for Development and dealing with something he does not normally deal with. However, like Mrs Liselott Blixt, I would like to ask the Minister for Development to go back to the Minister for Health and say that if there is such a widespread view in the Ministry of Health that you can use the covid-19 to excuse everything in this life, then you should be a little careful about that, shouldn't you? Because this has been a process that has been further along than the few months of time we have had covid-19. And if you are really going to stand up for the fact that you have no time at all for anything else in the Ministry of Health but to deal with covid-19, then it is difficult to understand why this bill has been tabled. I mean, so it's just to say that before we run crazy in those covid-19 excuses, we have to take care of each other a little bit, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130717	I fully agree with the Left's call for us to look after each other. That is also what this bill is about, that is to say, taking care of each other. And now, in fact, a strong majority has been found in the Folketing to place money on the Finance Act for these very vulnerable. And so it has been thought that it is so important to accommodate the socially vulnerable now that it is in order to improve dental health so that we have it urgently on the agenda so that we can get it adopted, because it should preferably work as quickly as possible. And I'm thinking that, too, the Left and Mr. Martin Geertsen fully understands that if there is a ministry that is particularly busy in these times of corona, it is the Ministry of Health. But I admit that this does not, of course, apply as an admission ticket to apologize for anything. And there is a desire to work hard, determined and willful to get a model work done, and it will get started very, very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130818	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130821	Thank you. It is because I think that the working minister for health gave exciting answers to who was involved in this. And it was everyone who is legally resident in Denmark. That is why I would like to know at committee reading how many Danish citizens are considered to be covered by this and how many non-western citizens, for example. how many Eastern Europeans who may be legally resident in the country, but now have the right to have their teeth fixed on the Danish taxpayers' bill. We certainly do not take a favourable view of that. Danish taxpayers should not pay for people who may come from a country that does not have high dental hygiene to come here and pay their bills for their teeth and then go home again. So we will be very, very watchful and look forward to getting answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130910	I will look forward to that question being asked, and I am sure that the Minister for Health will answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130916	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130933	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507130950	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are dealing with here is basically about debureaucratising parts of our public sector and about turning down the sometimes a little too rigid requirements and rules that have been laid down over the public sector, and instead having confidence that employees around here can actually work out how to handle matters in a sensible way. Specifically, the draft law should make it easier to deal with medicine in the institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare, particularly in prisons and detention houses. It must not only save money, but also time and resources for the employees of the Department of Justice, who are already running very fast. At the same time, the proposal should also provide better conditions for prisoners. Today, the rules for storing medicines for inmates in the country's prisons are rather strict. Of course, there must be strict control of medicines in our prisons, both for health reasons and because it can always lead to abuse or illegal resale between inmates. That is why it is a question of finding the right balance, and so there is room to improve the current rules. As the rules are today, the D.C. can only buy medicine for the individual inmate. This applies both to prescription medications but also to over-the-counter medicines. This means, for example, that you cannot have a large stack of aspirin lying in a medicine cabinet, which you can then hand over to various inmates when the need is there. So you have to have a separate package of aspirin for each inmate, which then has to be clearly separated from other inmates' aspirin. Of course, it causes a number of practical problems in prisons and means extra work for staff, which means running out and buying a new package of aspirin when a new inmate has headaches. It may also be possible to harm inmates in acute cases where they have to wait for an employee to pick up over-the-counter medicine at the pharmacy or for a doctor to pass by. Thus, by allowing the institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare to distribute, split up and supply medicinal products without a special authorisation from the Danish Medicines Agency, there is also an opportunity to increase efficiency. Thus, each institution can buy larger lots of medicine and then hand them over to inmates when needed. All in all, a quite sensible proposal that abolishes a little too rigid rules and allows better organisation of work within the individual institutions. That is why, of course, we can support the proposal, especially when we are also aware that this is expected to give an annual saving of more than 25 million. kr., which we are sure can make more use elsewhere around our welfare community.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131234	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131238	Thank you. The Left can agree to the bill, which, of course, opens the way for employees in the institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare to be able to distribute, split up and hand over medicines to inmates and residents. After all, our agreement stems from the commitment to the possibility of a more rational use of medicines on the one hand and, on the other, from the desire to limit the administrative costs as far as possible. And, as we understand it, both the Department of Justice and the ministries involved consider that the present system is partly delaying treatment and partly administratively cumbersome. And then it's very expensive. So when the Left supports the bill, I say it knowingly that all drug use must be done with sense and in a way that ensures proper storage, delivery and intake. And that is why, in the work of the committee, we will also delve into whether the draft law now also ensures that the supply of medicines is organised in such a way that there is an overall and unambiguous management responsibility and that the day-to-day management is supported by clear guidelines and instructions. Having said that, I find it very difficult to imagine that we are changing our view of our adherence to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131354	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131400	Thank you very much. Well, the former rapporteurs have told us about splitting and dispensing medicines. It was like it was in the old days in our nursing home when it was called old age home. There you had a locker with medicine in it, and then you gave it, depending on what it was. In time it was so personified, so each one had to have his own medicine, and this has given rise to these challenges that have been seen in the criminal services. The proposal, just as you see it, is positive and something that we would like to see ourselves in under certain conditions. The Board of Patient Safety visited the various prisons last year and they will continue here in 2020, and there was a great deal of criticism. What you saw was that it was really old-fashioned. They reported on paper, they had many overtime hours, they were plagued by stress, there was the absence of instructions from management, there was no medical knowledge, and there was the outdated journal system and the feeling of standing alone with an increasing number of inmates who just got worse and worse. It is now they that we are giving some powers. So if we're gonna help give them some powers, this is gonna have to be okay. Danish Nursing Council has had several articles on it. For example: In the summer of 2019 Jyderup Prison received a serious command from the Board for Patient Safety, and this was actually the starting point for going through all prisons and detention houses. By the turn of the year, the Patient Safety Agency had been on 17 visits; 11 surveillance reports have been published and 7 cases have triggered an injunction because prisons or detention houses had critical or major problems of importance to patient safety. Even though criminal citizens are sitting there, we must ensure that there is patient safety. That is why we want a statement that these things have been corrected. The problem is, of course, that this is in favour of other ministries, and that is why we have to bring in the Ministry of Justice in committee to tell us what has been done about it. There are also a number of questions that I would like to ask in relation to this work, but I think that much of it will be about the area of the Minister of Justice. I don't think we can say yes to this if it still looks like that out there. Because if we start saying that it's open to medicine, if you can't even file, it's critical. However, I expect that we will take that up during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131705	Thank you. There are no brief comments and the next rapporteur to speak is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507131714	Thank you for the floor. It's Kirsten Normann Andersen again, for which I stand, but it's actually a little interesting for me to have this bill, because I've been very interested in health care in prisons, and it's a pleasure to hear Mrs Liselott Blixt's speech, because she sums up very well what's the challenge out there. In fact, I have been out here this spring to make two arrests and four prisons visits to hear about their health care. One of the things that they constantly mentioned was, in fact, the issue of medicine, on which we have to decide today. I think it is a good and a real proposal, but Mrs Liselott Blixt is right that we should ensure that the basis is good out there. I myself very rarely use aspirin and such things, but I know that others do, and at least inmates do. What is the reality out there now is that if an inmate must have an aspirin, which one can usually buy over the counter, then a doctor must print it on prescription, and one must send a taxi to the nearest pharmacy after the package Panodil. Then it's just something really bad if this happens in the evening hours, because then there may not be a pharmacy nearby at all, and then the staff must say to the inmate concerned: Well you can't get an aspirin until tomorrow, after the doctor has discharged it and there's a pharmacy that's open. It is clear that it presents some challenges for the individual inmate, because of course it is not nice to be without the painkillers, if you need it, but it also causes some conflicts with the staff it is clear that it can be difficult to understand why you can't just get the aspirin that you would have been able to buy in a supermarket. This has not only been about aspirin; it has also been about vitamin pills and protein powder, which is something that has normally been sold in the prison shop in which the inmates have been able to trade, and it has therefore been said that they cannot do so in the future because of the current legislation. So I think it has been very problematic, and it is good that those rules are softened up, but I agree that we should have looked much more closely at health care in prisons. One of the last things I want to mention today is that, of course, it is a pity that we do not have the right Minister for Health here, but we can ask about it in the negotiations, because this is the manual accounting thing out there. In other words, health care in the field of criminal justice has not been digitised, and I believe that we have quite a great obligation to correct that. Because what exactly does that mean out there? Yes, that means that when an inmate has to go to a hospital, you have to take the manual file and send in to the hospital, and you're not used to it at the hospital because everything is digitized. So there is a risk that it will be misplaced and that it will not be updated and it will cause all sorts of problems. In relation to references, there is a file in the Department of Justice containing the inmates' references, and if you remember that hooves, there has actually been some time, and why have we not heard anything about it, then you can go in manually and turn it through. And that gives a really, really bad follow-up, and the inmates can't understand it. I often get emails about it: Why doesn't anything happen when I need health care? So there really is a need for us to digitise that healthcare, and it can only go too slowly to get started on it. However, it may also be a question that we raise during the committee procedure. I think this bill is good now, but it is clear that we must ensure the quality of it all around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132051	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132059	Thank you for that, President. As I have said, the bill here allows the institutions of the Department of Criminal Services to distribute, split and supply medicines without the permission of the Danish Medicines Agency. This means that the institutions will be able to store medicinal products in medical cabinets or rooms from which separation can take place and then the supply of medicines, for example. individual tablets for the individual inmate. As a rule, medicines will be requested for the medicine cabinet or room and will not be purchased for the individual inmate. The current rules mean that, as a rule, there must be no medicine for inmates more generally, in prisons or in detention houses, i.e. in prisons. For example, prison houses are not allowed to buy. common aspirin to be able to give them to inmates who get headaches. They must also not have prescription medicines that many inmates use; it must be purchased separately for the individual inmate. This has led, among other things, to an increase in the number of young people in the Community. lively black market trade with over-the-counter medicine in Danish prisons, and that is quite unsatisfactory. Therefore, a change of law is needed. However, like some of the previous rapporteurs, we see that there are some problems with the digitisation of record keeping, and we are also looking forward to that being one of the things we can work on in committee. In addition, we believe that there are some elements in the draft law which are rather imprecise, for example. which medicines are covered and how should they be treated? With the proposal, we authorize the Danish Medicines Agency to make a decree to ensure guidelines for medicine for inmates in detentions and prisons. And the Danish Medicines Agency is good at finding solutions, but we believe that it is a little too uncertain that they will be given the authorisation to, for example. to decide on the requirements applicable to those handling medicines. There we could have a wish that the Danish Medicines Agency should come up with a proposal to the committee on how this problem can be resolved, so that we also have an opportunity to take a political position on the forms in which the medicine can be dispensed and what requirements we can make in relation to it. In addition, there is another problem that we would like to see clarified, and it is about the fact that uniformed staff should now also be medical assistants, i.e. medical assistants. withdrawal treatment. It can easily be a mix-up of roles involving the risk of harming the work of prisons and detention houses. That shows, for example, that. of the consultations that DIGNITY proposes that the Danish Medicines Agency should take a position on this problem and offer a solution to the committee. And we would also like that proposal to be accepted in committee. But on the part of the Enhedslisten, we can support the bill, and I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132351	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen from Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132357	Thank you. After all, we have a problem here that needs to be resolved, so that the rules for dealing with medicine in the institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare are complied with. After all, in 2019 the Board of Patient Safety found that a number of Departmental Services did not meet the requirements for handling medicinal products arising from pharmaceutical legislation. This must, of course, be dealt with so that there is no mismedication. Inmates need the medication they're prescribed. At the same time, of course, we also need to be able to handle over-the-counter medicines properly. As I see it immediately, there is a problem with the common medical card, so that you ensure that you are correctly reported in relation to medicines that are not on the name. But that must be resolved along the way. In any case, we in the Conservative People's Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132457	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132503	Thank you. The hash is floating in the prisons, but you can't buy the aspirin. So you can shake your head a little bit and say it doesn't seem to be entirely connected. It's okay with this proposal, so you open up that they can both prescribe it, and maybe also that the inmates can buy something basically over-the-counter medicine in the kiosks that they have in the prisons, if you go that way in this too. Then, of course, we still have to look away at the fact that there is no mismedication, but I hear more people will also focus on this in committee work. So new citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132535	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132539	Thank you. The Danish Medicines Agency generally has a very bureaucratic approach to the issue of medicines. A few years ago, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and I were on a tour of debureaucratisation, and there we found out that in the medical courses in the care of the elderly the names of sales were to be entered on medicines, not the active substance and the dose, but the sales name. At the same time, we must buy the cheapest, what is called generic substitution, so these poor people in home care had to go and change their sales names all the time, because it had to correspond to the product that was currently the cheapest. It's crazy, and we got rid of it, so you can write the active substance and the dose today and then not change it all the time. This is how the Danish Medicines Agency works and it is simply too bureaucratic. This proposal simply represents an incredibly sensible debureaucratisation, because the state of law as it stands is simply too bureaucratic and reflects an excessively bureaucratic way of working. So this sensible debureaucratisation, we'd like to see more of it, but we're backing this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132649	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are giving the floor to the working minister for health and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507132658	Once again, I would like to thank you for a good debate on the draft law on the distribution, fragmentation and distribution of medicines to prisoners in the institutions of criminal justice. This is a proposal which is sensible debureaucratisation, as Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned earlier. The draft law allows the institutions to distribute, split and supply medicinal products without the permission of the Danish Medicines Agency. At the same time, the proposal proposes that the Agency may lay down detailed rules for the handling of medicinal products by criminal services. In practice, the proposal means that the institutions of criminal justice will be able to store prescription medicines in medical cabinets or rooms from which separation can take place and then the supply of, for example, medicines. single tablets for the inmates. In addition, as part of the proposed scheme, it will be possible for the institutions of criminal justice to distribute, split and supply over-the-counter medicines which are not prescribed by a doctor. Today, over-the-counter medicines provided by the institutions must be intended for a specific deposit and individual tablets must not be dispensed from a pack to other inmates, even if a prison has a package. This is what several people have said, i.e. this: you go down and get a pack of Pamol or Panodil, and it is intended only for a single inmate; if another inmate needs the same tablet, then you have to buy a new package. It seems, as was said before, unnecessarily bureaucratic. Let us move on and get away from that arrangement. With the authorisation clause in the bill, the Danish Medicines Agency will, among other things: be able to lay down rules on the safe storage of over-the-counter medicinal products, so that the supply of, for example: Aspirin for an inmate can happen quickly without the inmate having to wait for the staff of the institution to buy them. The proposal will thus improve the ability of the inmates to deal with quickly. In addition, the proposal will reduce the expected additional cost of drug management by approx. 26 million kr. annual. I hope that the draft law here will receive a good reading of the committee and, of course, I will answer any questions that the committee may have on the way. Then I would say that we have heard various questions, but again in this debate the Danish People's Party Mrs Liselott Blixt was watchful and woke up at the garden gate in relation to the whole of this handling, as to what should be of rules and so on. And there is the idea that it is the Danish Medicines Agency that makes some guidelines that must be low-practical and to deal with, so that the individual employee knows exactly how he or she can do it safely. And you are also finding a solution in terms of how to do the bookkeeping in the future. I have written with the people of the Ministry, and we are examining how to ensure that the Parliamentary Health Committee is kept up to date on a regular basis, is closely informed about this work and given the opportunity to follow the guidelines given in this area. For we have only the intention to be in close dialogue and sparring with you as rapporteurs, so that the end product that comes will be as good as possible and as safe for the employees as possible. So thank you, among other things. Mrs Liselott Blixt for this recording, which was very constructive and useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133031	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133049	Before we start the debate, I must point out to those who have not tried it yet that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the debate is being conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, both ministerial speeches and rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, are taken from the seats. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important not to start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133135	Thank you very much for that and thank you for just informing the President of the new rules. Something is happening all the time, and it's great that we can agree on how we do things. This bill is not about the senior pension itself. But having said that, I would still be delighted to hear, when you talk to people out there, that there are more who have been awarded senior pension. It is an arrangement that they are very happy about, and it is also an arrangement that helps many, both now and in the future, and we can then join together in welcoming those of us who have been involved in negotiating it in place. If you compare it with the senior pre-retirement pension, which never really got off to a really good start, I would say that I would certainly hope that this will help many, many more and give a more uniform treatment and award of a senior pension than it did with the senior early retirement pension. It must never depend on which municipality you live. It must depend on whether you are ill enough to get it admitted or not, and not on where you happen to have settled or been born. That is why I also believe that it will be more uniform when the award is now made to a senior pension unit under the ATP, which is the subject of this draft law. When we then have the unit in place with this bill, the next thing is, of course, to have it transferred from the temporary scheme to the municipalities, as it is now, and then to the permanent scheme at the senior pension unit, which starts on 1 January 2021. And we expect that work on the law to begin this autumn. I believe and expect that the cooperation between the municipalities and the senior pension unit will work very well for the benefit of those we must help, of course, and those that are involved, namely the sick seniors who are in a very bad state and who are so ill that they cannot work and who need this scheme. In those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133335	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133345	Thank you. I am very pleased that we are now getting the administrative framework in place for the future senior pension. We thus ensure that all worn-out seniors, regardless of industry, have the right to withdraw from the labour market. It has been important for the Left with the senior pension to ensure that if you are worn out and cannot work, then you should not work. At the same time, it has been important for the Left that the Senior Pension Unit becomes an independent, financially independent authority and with this bill will be responsible for the award of senior pension from 1 January 2021. The award must not be dependent on the applicant's postal code and it complies with this bill by ensuring the establishment of an independent institution. With an independent senior pension unit, we ensure a level playing field for all those applying for a senior pension. The senior pension has already proved its worth by having a large number of applicants over 1,000 citizens have already applied for senior pensions during the first 5 weeks of the year. It is far more than the previous senior early retirement pension, which we must recognise did not have the effect that we had intended it to have. So the future prospects for the entitlement to a senior pension for the worn out look bright. The senior pension differs from the senior early retirement pension by having very clear requirements; these are three simple requirements which are not so much in doubt. However, if you are insecure, the self-employed unit contributes to guiding citizens in the application process, and this allows a higher probability that citizens in the target group for senior pensions will also be properly guided, and that ultimately means that more will be awarded a senior pension. Several worn out will therefore be helped away from the labour market in a dignified way, and with what in mind the Left supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133547	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur of the Left, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133554	Thank you. Now many wise words have been said earlier by the two colleagues who spoke a little about the senior unit. However, it is important for the Danish People's Party that senior pension will work as it should. During a transitional period, it has been planned that KL, that is to say the municipalities, should assess whether people could receive a senior pension until the senior pension unit came into place. That's what it's doing with this law, so it's ready to take over January 1st. It is important for the Danish People's Party, and it has always been that people should have the same treatment regardless of where they are in the country and whatever municipality they are in. There must be the same treatment and the same way you decide the case. This is what we can achieve by putting it in one place, that is, in the senior pension unit here. Until then, it is the municipalities that are carrying out the task. Unfortunately, we must acknowledge that I cannot help saying that just during this period under Corona many people have been pushed aside and have not been able to get a decision. That is why I hope that the Minister will, as soon as possible, reopen the job centre's treatment of those applying for a senior pension. Moreover, this also applies to early retirement, which is to open the door as soon as possible. Now there is a need to open up society more, and then there is no reason why job centres should not be able to open up to full force so that we can get it going again. However, there are also possibilities for you to complain to the Ankestyrelsen about the decision taken in the senior pension unit. It is also the case that if you are unhappy with a decision taken by the municipality, you can complain about it again when the senior pension unit is up and running. You can have it tested there for safety, if that is how you feel you have been treated unfairly. Then they can take over. In the Danish People's Party, we think that what has been achieved with this is excellent and we agree that it should work from 1 January. So of course the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133818	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Radicals. This is Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133822	Thank you. It was last December that we introduced the senior pension itself, a very good and important service, which I know is popular and which many are happy about. The draft law we are discussing today concerns the creation of a new independent and national authority for the award of senior pensions, and this has been an important priority for the Radical Left. For the award of a senior pension, do not depend on where in the country you live. I can therefore say that the Radical Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133902	Thank you. Then we proceed in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mr President. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507133907	The senior pension leaves much to be desired, and we are so looking forward to seeing the government's proposal for a pension that, differently, both takes care of the worn out and addresses the injustice that it is not reflected in the retirement age when you start work. The two challenges we look forward to seeing are dealt with in the government's proposal, which was due to come later this year. The bill provides for the senior pension, and I just want to confirm the SF's position on it again. We see this as mild gifts to the middle class and the higher middle class without any, largely, noticeable employment effect. But one apparently had the parties between the money in profits, and then it was thought that they should be used to glorify the life of the middle class and the higher middle class. However, the system must be administered, and it is a good idea to have a single unit. There's too much country lottery about it when these decisions are out with the municipalities. The road towards getting this central location has been somewhat uneven, while it has been on tolerated stay in the municipalities, where they haven't hidden that they were pretty tired of having to manage it for a while before it gets taken over. But that is what we are doing today: find a common administrative unit that will hopefully also ensure both faster treatment and more uniform treatment. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134031	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134034	Thank you. I just want the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, will elaborate on the comments that the senior pension and the senior pension agreement is such a deal where we gild the middle class and the higher middle class. This isn't my experience of the deal we've made on senior retirement. I think that the senior pension and the senior pension agreement are a very, very good deal. It helps worn-out people in a dignified way to get away from the labour market and to a benefit that actually corresponds to an early retirement pension. So what's this pampering of the higher middle class?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134132	The mistake that I didn't say it clearly enough must lie entirely on my side. I think I said it. I was talking at that time alone about the senior pension, the senior pension, we think we're better than what we had before, and that's really fine, and that's why we're in favour of it. But the senior prize it thinks we're a present to the higher middle class. So it was only the 43,000 kroner. tax-free and the year after the 25,000 DKK. tax-free, I was talking about was a gift to the middle class, because there is nothing that suggests that it should have a significant employment effect. So why would you give that money away? It was only the limited part I referred to as gifts. The rest of the senior pension has a different audience; that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134210	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134211	Thank you for your clarification, and I am sorry if it was yours who did not listen well enough. But there we are still away vertically disagreeable. I think the senior prize that's been made is really, really good. It thus underlines and recognises the need we have, namely that more people work a little more in this country and very much like once you have reached the retirement age. So I can't believe the SF is throwing these violent attacks out on those people who are actually still making an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134253	But I explained in detail, I think, for it was at first reading where I had the figures that I did not have with me today on the predictions that were made of who would make use of the senior premium, not the senior pension, and the senior premium had only marginal employment effects. There was virtually no one expected there because of it would work any longer. It was very much the people who wanted to add a few years in advance - typically it could be the high school teacher who had already intended it; people with an exciting working life with a great right over their own lives also at work - who in addition now got this tax-free prize of DKK 43,000 respectively. and 25,000 kroner. In what we used to be when we dealt with it, there was hardly any effect on it, and I do not think that things have changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134337	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134339	Thank you. Now I don't think senior pension has anything to do with this bill. It's something else. But I'm surprised that Mr. Karsten Hønge believes that a so-su assistant who has chosen to stay a little longer on the labour market after retirement, or a bricklayer who can handle it a little longer, is in the higher middle class. I didn't really think SF meant that. Because then I'd like to know who it is that isn't in the higher middle class. 'Cause maybe they're someone else. In fact, I know quite a few unskilled people who have a very high salary, and that means that they are then in the higher middle class. It's just a little surprising that Mr. Karsten Hønge believes that e.g. A sosu assistant in home care should be the higher middle class.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134438	Well, there's no reason for Mr. Simpson to... Bent Bøgsted is surprised, because I'm sure that Mr. Bøgsted... Bent Bøgsted was in the Chamber when we discussed it at first reading, where we went down in the details of this. After all, it is no longer a class analysis that I am going into here about whether a sosu assistant is located in one place or another. It is obvious to everyone, I am quite sure of Mr. Bent Bøgsted, and then we all have with us that a sosu assistant doesn't belong to the higher middle class. We had a material to decide on the senior prize, which really isn't part of this, but it's not the whole discussion about retirement either, because the discussion has taken place. What we are discussing today is merely the location of where it should be administered, and we are in favour of that. In connection with this, there are comments on the scheme at all. And this system is going to be largely accepted by people who have good fixed jobs. And not many of the unskilled can add extra years to their working life. That's why it has this pretty clear social aim, the premium, that is, it hits the higher middle class.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134532	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134533	But still away: I know a lot of sosu's that go on after they reach retirement age. I'd just like to confirm again that sir... Karsten Hønge believes that sosu assistants belong to the higher middle class.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134551	Oh, that's a silly question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134555	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507134603	Thank you. Then I will allow myself to talk about the senior pension unit, which this bill is about, and which is the administrative part of the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out. The Enhedslisten agrees that it is important to have an independent, nationwide, uniform, treating unit. And that's what we've been saying when we talked about the senior pension. But unfortunately, this bill has become a mess, because in reality we are in a situation where there are four bodies to be involved in how this is to be done. And I do not think this is a good thing for citizens who have a wear and tear relationship and who, moreover, are vulnerable in many different ways. We have the municipalities to guide and assist citizens with the application and contact with the senior pension unit. And thus, the municipalities have a lot of work to do in getting the case informed and ensuring that the relevant files are forwarded and all those things. This is, of course, fine, but it still means that when the responsibility for counselling and processing is in the municipality in this way, you send it over to the senior pension unit, which then has the overall responsibility for the specific case and decision in all cases, and which sets the level of service, quality and response times, etc. the case-by-case procedure. However, it is ATP that carries out the processing work, where the municipality has already made the major contribution in informing the case and guiding the citizen, etc. And then Payout Denmark comes in at the end and has to pay out the money. It gives a very messy story, and I look forward very much to getting some clear indication of how it will work in practice. Because right now, I think it looks very messy and very bureaucratic and that it will also lead to a great deal of duplication. Moreover, it is not a very user-friendly construction. 'Cause there's somebody who needs to use these systems and search in and find out and all that stuff. But they do not have any politicians to answer for if a wrong decision is made, so it is worrying. Then we can see that the independent board of the senior pension unit must be exactly the same people who sit on the board of the ATP. But that makes it insane to the extent that they have to guide and deal with each other's decisions, so I don't quite understand what the idea is of having two levels when it's the same people sitting there. But we hope the Minister can explain that. And it's not that I don't remember this was a real, really nasty piece of work that was thrown between different units. The municipalities didn't want it, ATP didn't want it. There was simply no one who would take on the task, and so I understand that we have been under pressure when we have to set up a system. But what's come out of it is a mess. Then there is the question of what factual and professional requirements there are for the case officers who have to examine the applications and take the decisions. I'm worried about that. These should, of course, be trained social workers, and this should be stated in the legislation. Paragraph 5 of the comments states: "As in the case of other ATP schemes, the Senior Pensions Unit will not be set up to enable the citizen to meet the person in the Senior Pensions Unit who decides on the case before the case is decided. It is therefore also an insecurity for the citizens that this is about them having no opportunity to meet face-to-face, they have no opportunity to have a caseworker with whom they can communicate, and they cannot be sure that it is the same person who looks at their case every time they approach. And that goes without saying, because in the first place it is a question of all communication being digital, and one can understand that when it is a national thing. However, this does not make it easier for the citizens who need it here, and so it weakens their safety in the treatment. Then you can say that okay, we also perceive phone as a digital solution. I like that, the phone is a communicative tool, it's very fine. You can even communicate immediately and have a dialogue straight. But since you can't be sure that it's the same person you talk to every time, it's not very safe for them either. It is then the case that the municipalities are not responsible for the senior pension, but they still have important tasks to perform. The guide is first and foremost, and especially in the case of people who find it difficult to use digital solutions: then it is up to the municipalities to assess whether they can be exempted from it or not. In addition, the municipalities will have to pay all administrative costs of the whole scheme. And there I would very much like an explanation of how it will work. In other words, as I understand it, the senior pension unit must send a bill to the municipalities. But I think it is rather unclear whether a bill is sent to the municipalities over a comb or whether it is sent to the individual municipality. But not only that: the municipalities also have to pay if an error is made in ATP. Then it's ATP who has to pay. I'm not sure if we can support this proposal as messy as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135124	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135131	Thank you. With this bill, we will establish the Senior Pension Unit, which will be charged with awarding senior pensions. With the agreement on the right to a senior pension for worn-out, we ensure that people who are worn out after years of work have the opportunity to have a dignified retirement from the labour market. Therefore, it is a pleasure that we can now establish the Senior Pension Unit as agreed in the conciliation circle, after the task of granting senior pension has temporarily been a municipal task. It is essential that we ensure an equal and uniform administration across the country. Your address should not determine whether or not you are entitled to a senior pension. Here today we are taking a first step in the creation of the Senior Pension Unit. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135227	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the new bourgeoisie. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135233	Thank you. I think I will also try to deal with this very bill, and I think there are some things that I would like to clarify in committee. It's because I think there are some pretty high administrative costs in this proposal, and as you move some tasks from the municipalities and from some other places that may have been put in the job centres, I am therefore surprised that such a solution will be so significantly more expensive in administrative costs. We would have liked to have made that clear in the committee procedure, where we can see the price per person. citizens, you expect and what is of administrative costs for this, and then keep it up to what it is, for example, for administrative costs. under the current system and see if it really becomes more expensive or it becomes cheaper. Because when you look at these pretty high millions and you look at what's probably calculated, and the expectation of how many people are going to get into this system, it's actually a pretty expensive system to manage, and we would like that to be clarified a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135338	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen. So the next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135346	After all, this bill puts the organisational structure in place in relation to the agreement that has already been made on senior pensions, and that is, of course, quite reasonable. So we'll back that up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135359	Thank you. There were no brief comments on this either. So now we have reached the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135406	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for accepting the draft law and, of course, I will try as best I can during the discussion here, but most of all also in the further reading of the committee, to answer the questions that have been raised. As several of you have mentioned, the bill here establishes the Senior Pension Unit, which, as a new central authority, will award senior pensions from 1 January 2021. Before I put more words on the purpose of the draft law, I would like to rewind the time a little back to December last year when we introduced the senior pension, that is, the very scheme that it is all about. Since 1 January 2020, citizens have been able to apply for a senior pension if, after many years in the labour market, they have such a lasting and significant reduced working capacity that they can work no more than 15 hours a week compared to their last job. The senior pension replaced the senior pre-retirement pension, which never worked as intended, briefly because too few people who were too sick to work after many years in the labour market received the help they should have had. I can't let that happen again. That is why the conciliation circle has put the emphasis on the fact that the award of senior pension should not be in the municipalities permanently, and that leads me to this bill: the establishment of the Senior Pension Unit, which is to ensure a uniform award of senior pension across the country. The unit takes over responsibility for granting senior pension from the municipalities, which temporarily grants senior pension in 2020. The bill has been drawn up on the basis of the Supplementary Agreement: Agreement on the entitlement to senior pension for worn-out persons agreed by the Conciliation Committee and the Government in December 2019. The senior pension unit is established as an independent institution with authority status. The Authority will have an independent board of directors, which will consist of the members of the ATP Board at any time. It will be the ATP which will provide technical and administrative assistance in the case of cases and decisions on senior pensions. The municipalities will continue to have an important role in senior pension cases as they will continue to provide information on senior pension cases as well as general guidance and assistance to citizens. The details of the division of tasks between the municipalities and the Senior Pension Unit will be set out in a bill which I plan to present in the opening week of the autumn. I am pleased that we are now creating the framework for building the new authority, which will be ready to take over the senior pension scheme from the turn of the year, and I will, together with the conciliation circle, follow developments very closely to ensure that it benefits the citizens who need it, and that also leads me to respond to the comments made by Mr. Bent Bøgsted. I fully agree that, as Denmark's re-opening process is controlled and cautiously reopened, we also need to re-enable active employment efforts, including the granting of the various benefits here, and this applies, of course, both to senior pensions as well as to a large number of other benefits. We know that there is a case punk out there in the municipalities, and that is why, of course, we also need to be able to put this thing back into practice as quickly as possible. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I and the government believe that the introduction of senior pensions has been necessary, and that is also an answer to Mr Beazley's question. Karsten Hønge in the comments he makes at first reading here. However, as the government sees it, senior pensions are only part of the solution to the fundamental problem that we let people get so worn out that they can no longer go to work. The government is more ambitious than that. Because it is not fair that people with many years in the labour market cannot get help until they have worn out completely. There is a need for a real right to early retirement, where you have an objective right. It's a top priority for the government. We must ensure a more dignified and fair withdrawal for those with the most years in the labour market who are at risk of wearing out. Basically, we believe that we owe it to those who have worked and paid taxes through a long working life, i.e. a pat on the shoulder and an opportunity to withdraw worthily. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I will make myself available to the next committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135823	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Earlier in today's meeting, Bill No. L 183 (Proposal for a law amending the law on parental responsibility, law on the Family Court, law on the conclusion and dissolution of marriage and various other laws) by mistake referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly. Instead, I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135902	Now there are a great many revenants in the Chamber, but after all not all all the rapporteurs have been in the Chamber all the time, so before we start the debate I must point out that the Bureau has decided to change the way in which the debate is conducted. The amendment means that all speeches, both ministerial speeches and rapporteur speeches and brief remarks, are taken from the seats. In order to prepare the minutes, it is very important not to start talking until the red ring on the microphone lights up. And, as usual, you can see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507135957	Thank you. I haven't tried this model before, so it was nice to know how it works. The reason why we are here today and are dealing with this bill is to be found in Padborg on the Danish-German border, and this is about the Padborg case, where Kurt Beier had Filipino drivers who were placed in a slum camp, employed to drive a truck to a very low salary. It was the case that was needed in order for the whole of Denmark to realise how bad social dumping is on the Danish and European roads. Yes, even the then Transport Minister, Ole Birk Olesen, was pressed by the Padborg case and set up a committee with the social partners, which laid the foundations for us to have this discussion of the bill today. The legislative proposal is therefore more than just another step in the series of measures to combat social dumping. The bill is a genuine break-up and marks a change of course in the fight against social dumping on the roads. And here I am thinking not only of the content of the bill, but also, to a large extent, of the fact that the bill is backed up by the social partners and virtually all parties here in the Folketing, and that promises only very, very good for the further work in this area in the fight against social dumping. With this bill we are taking a big step towards ensuring orderly pay and working conditions in the transport industry for drivers on the Danish roads, and at the same time the bill means that Danish hauliers will have more fair and equal framework conditions for operating. Social dumping simply has to get off the Danish roads. The hammer must fall if hauliers do not comply with the rules and undermine competitors with unacceptablely low wages. We are now putting this into practice effectively for the benefit of the drivers and all the road hauliers who are in charge of this and, fortunately, there are many of their truckers' shops. Overall, the bill sets a cost level for how Danish and foreign hauliers should pay their drivers for bus or freight services in Denmark. As a result, we tighten up the requirements for the remuneration of drivers for both Danish and foreign hauliers, so that there will be a level playing field for everyone when they drive on the Danish roads. In relation to Danish transport companies, we are tightening up the requirements for the level of costs to be followed in the future. A transport undertaking must in future be subject to or follow a cost level which does not differ significantly and unambiguously from the overall cost level in collective agreements concluded by the most representative social partners in the field and which applies throughout the Danish territory. In addition, companies must also meet the cost requirement if the company is covered by national driver agreements where the cost level is at the level of the guiding agreements. The level of cost in the most representative agreements has been chosen to ensure that we have conditions in the industry at an appropriate level and to clarify the standard or standard of pay and working conditions which de facto guide the industry qua the professional organization which represents the most employees in the professional field. In parallel with this, we introduce completely new requirements for foreign transport companies operating cabotage or combined transport in Denmark, which are thus in direct competition with Danish companies. Firstly, foreign companies will in future have to pay their drivers a calculated hourly rate, which will be determined on the basis of the cost level in accordance with the most representative agreements, and secondly, foreign carriers will in future have to report and record a number of information about their driving in Denmark so that it will be possible for the authorities to check and enforce the remuneration requirement. Increased control is being deployed. Specifically, we are establishing a separate notification system which can be adapted to the specific needs and characteristics of transport and to the control of the authorities. All in all, there are a great many good initiatives, and we can therefore support the bill in the Social Democratic Party and, of course, look forward very much to the further debate and discussion of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140338	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140342	Thank you for that, President. I just got a little curious. The rapporteur now mentions the Kurt Beier case. Is this bill solving examples like the Kurt Beier case?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140356	Thank you for the question. It solves parts of the Kurt Beier case. Well, this bill is the first step. Today, an example of another case of ugly conditions for employees in Denmark came; if we are to solve the whole Kurt Beier case, and if we are to solve the whole problem, it requires regulation in the EU area and an EU road package. Fortunately, there are more steps on the way there which will help to solve the challenges in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140421	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140422	Now the rapporteur mentions it himself, and I also saw the rapporteur's tweet earlier on about this. And there is no one in here who does not want people, of course, to work under orderly conditions. I just have to clarify once again: will this bill resolve the specific issue that was the starting point, that is, the Kurt Beier case, and would it have solved the specific case of the Romanian drivers, as the rapporteur himself mentions in his tweet? Is this bill going to solve the two specific cases, in other words it is going to solve the problems in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140455	I would like to repeat, because we are making some legislation in Denmark right now, until we have implemented what is in the EU's road package. It is also because with the Danish People's Party we cannot adopt legislation that applies within the other limits. That is why we need to make legislation at European level. And there will be a number of initiatives which will help to put an end to social dumping in many other parts of Europe and on European roads, among other things. We are taking action against cabotage, posting, mailbox companies and many other things. Right now we are taking the first step and ensuring that those who drive the Danish roads have proper conditions: proper pay and proper working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140534	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140536	Yes, thank you. This surprises me a little, because this solves the problems of cabotage. We agree that it takes care of the cabotage business, hopefully everything. But when we talk about the Kurt Beier case, I would like to say that they are only driving internationally as far as I know, they are not driving cabotage in Denmark. This doesn't solve the problems of international driving. That's right, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg says that this is a matter for the EU rules, that is to say the road package in the EU. This solves the problem for those who drive cabotage in Denmark, but not for those who drive international services. Although it is from Padborg as a starting point, the draft law does not solve any of that problem; it is the road package in the European Union that has to solve that problem. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140627	Indeed, a number of Filipinos were driving Kurt Beier's company, which also operated cabotage. So for them, we will at least get to grips with the fact that they have some decent conditions when they are going to drive in Denmark in the future. However, as I have just said to Mrs Mette Thiesen, it is true that this is a step along the way, and we are not going to solve all the challenges of social dumping on the roads now, but this is a step towards what the aim is, namely to have proper conditions. And the first step is that we are making this legislation now and then, at a later stage, when the EU road package is implemented, yes, then we have gone even further in combating social dumping on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140702	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140703	We just have to agree that this means that you can't get a permit to drive in Denmark if you don't live up to this law. It may well be that then there is a company that has some that drives both places but it doesn't solve anything for any of those who drive down through Germany. These are quite different rules; it is the European Union's road package that has to deal with this. But this takes care of those who drive freight, cabotage, in Denmark. That's what the bill is all about. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140741	Completely! Yes, that is completely what the bill is about, and that is also what I have said. And then I'm just saying that this is the first step I'm going to tell you a little bit about the reason why we're dealing with this bill today, which unfortunately is that we saw some cases in Danish rest places where Filipino drivers lived under difficult conditions. This is the first step; it is the opportunity we have to take in the Danish Parliament today. Then a road package has been adopted in the EU, which is the next step on the way to ensuring proper conditions, not only in Denmark, not only on the Danish roads, but also on all European roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140812	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507140819	Thank you. We've heard the story too many times. Foreign drivers who, under unfair pay and working conditions, push the Danish hauliers and drivers to their knees when it comes to cabotage and combined transport. We are now putting an end to this. With this bill we take a step towards a level playing field when Danish and foreign companies carry on Danish roads. The political agreement reached at the beginning of the year, which we are now completing with a legislative proposal, contributes to the development of healthy conditions of competition and equal working conditions for all drivers in Denmark. We will ensure that, among other things. with a new control system designed to monitor the compliance of foreign companies operating in Denmark with the requirements of pay and reporting obligations. In this context, we must ensure that the Danish Trade Administration can obtain information from foreign companies and foreign authorities so that the control task can be properly performed. If the conditions are not in order, we must be able to withhold the vehicle and this must result in an appropriate large fine taking into account the economic gains achieved or attempted. It is a good and fair solution, so we will stop this deeply problematic driving. For the Danish hauliers and drivers it is incredibly important that it is made clear that the Danish hauliers will experience the same control regardless of agreement. There is freedom of association in Denmark, and there must continue to be. For the Left, it has also been important that the driving licence can be awarded both jointly and can be issued to a single carrier, which is covered by a collective agreement for drivers meeting the requirements of the overall cost level, and that we agree that when a collective agreement has been the basis for the granting of a licence or that it has been established that the agreement generally meets the required cost level, the Danish Trade Authority will regularly indicate and update on their website an inventory of these collective agreements, while not creating unnecessary administrative burdens for business. In other words, this bill ensures that there will be proper conditions on the Danish roads in the future, so that Danish drivers and road hauliers will not experience unfair competition from foreign operators carrying out cabotage services with very low wages and poor working conditions in this country in the future. In the Left, we are pleased that we are now taking up the fight against wage dumping, while at the same time maintaining full respect for the freedom of association and the collective labour law in force. The Left therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141114	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141120	It is always nice to be rapporteur after two who have gone through the agreement thoroughly. It's always an advantage, because then you don't have to use the script you have. I shall now depart from that. However, it has been important for the Danish People's Party that we have been able to make a start on stopping underpaid transport, i.e. that drivers have been underpaid. It should not be the case that you drive in Denmark and that you out-compete road hauliers who pay the wages a driver deserves. One should not be able to say that we are just using some Eastern Europeans, and then we drive freight in Denmark. That's not supposed to happen. Therefore, it has also been important for the Danish People's Party that we can get drivers and hauliers under an agreement. There are so many agreements in Denmark. There are those under 3F, but there are also the others. They are under Krifa, the Trade Union House, the Christian Employers' Association, and I know what. There are also ITDs that have some agreements, and all that. You have to live up to a level of cost that is close to the same. It doesn't have to be exactly the same, but it has to be up to a level that makes it not underpaid labour. In this context, it is also important to point out something with regard to the agreements that are and under which they are being implemented. After all, there are 50 000 permits per year for the carriage of goods by road. When you have opened them up and approved some pieces and the agreement is recognised and comes on the Ministry's website, we can say that if you drive under the agreement that is on the Ministry's website, then you meet the requirements we make to drive goods in Denmark. This applies to anyone who wants to drive a freight vehicle. Hopefully, the underpayment of the labour running will stop, but it also requires, of course, that some control be exercised over the road hauliers who drive. I would urge the Minister that the authorities should not be soft-sweet if the authorities find someone who exceeds the rules but sends them out of the country immediately, because then they have no right to drive in Denmark. That's the way to go. It doesn't help to say that now you get a warning and a small fine, and then you need to be okay if they don't get it, because it may be that the chances of being stopped aren't that great. I do not know how much effort is being made to control it, but it may be that the Minister can explain a little about the effort being made to control freight transport. When the Minister comes to the floor, perhaps we can get a little explanation of how much effort is being made and how much it is being increased under this legislation. Or whether the Minister intends to step up efforts to control. With the work that has been put into it and the meetings we have had on road transport it has been a long time along the way, and it was also quiet because of a little collective bargaining, which dragged on a little bit, I think we have come to where we can say that it is a good result we have achieved. The Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141451	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141457	Thank you. I must, of course, like the previous speaker, sir. Bent Bøgsted, say that it is nice when it has been so thoroughly examined by the previous speakers that you do not have to stick to your script yourself. We radically agree with the intention of the bill, namely that we have to confirm that there must be wages at Danish level when you have transport in Denmark. One half of this bill must then claim that the same framework conditions must apply to wage costs when Danish and foreign transport companies drive goods on Danish roads. The second half of this is, of course, that the agreement must be implemented in full respect of the freedom of association and the applicable collective labour law. So, of course, we feel radically that we have achieved a fine balance here, where it is possible to achieve equal treatment of all agreements, so that we do not de facto give a monopoly to 3F, but so that we ensure that the various agreements we have in the transport sector, which form the basis for the granting of road haulage licences with a similar cost level as the 3F agreements, can continue to trigger permits. It is not essential for me to follow a particular agreement, and we have achieved that with this bill, I think, well. So the Radical Left can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141622	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507141646	All good things come to him who waits, they say, and we have waited a long time. But then came the day today, when we give back wheels for social dumping in the truck industry for driving in Denmark. Danish drivers should not be thrown out of the trucks because of skewed and unfair competition from low-wage countries. We must not put up with social dumping. After all, we have seen road hauliers openly standing up boasting that they can get underpaid drivers from Romania to work, live and live in the truck's cab for months at a time. We have seen other road hauliers bring in underpaid, subdued drivers from Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and the Philippines. After all, the trick is that they are slugged into Western Europe through subsidiaries in mostly Poland. Employers are laughing all the way to the bank, while cheap drivers are being exploited and working conditions are being pushed downwards in Western Europe. The spiral towards the bottom is turned another round. Resting places all over Europe are windows into poor parallel societies. They are a mirror of the growing inequality in which drivers work, live and live in the cabs for weeks, yes, for months. The food is prepared by primitive gas flares, and the lonely hours are killed by television from the home country through a satellite dish on the truck. Some drivers just rest, others live in the rest stop until a new work order ticks in. It's an ugly sight. The rules are twisted and reversed so that employers can get their hands on profit. Drivers are entitled to rest outside the truck at regular intervals. In fact, the idea is that drivers should also be treated as a kind of people. However, we have seen that Danish rest areas and industrial areas in some places are transformed into primitive campsites. Heavy duty police are watching the trucks, but the assignments are queuing. The employers calculate cynically the risk of being taken, and it is not very great in Denmark. That is also why tough rules are needed at EU level and we are still waiting impatiently for the EU road package. We must not put up with inequality where employers are winners and workers are losers. A working underclass from low-wage countries sits split in each of their trucks. We need better common rules and they need to be enforced. Employers must be hit on the wallet if the rules are broken, and then we need not just legislation like the one we are implementing today, and not just the road package at EU level, but for drivers to come together in powerful, independent trade unions across Europe. Today, we then deal with a bill that gives drivers better working conditions, and that creates fair and equal competition between companies, whether they are Danish or foreign. We like that in the SF, and we are ready to continue the fight against social dumping and for an orderly and regulated labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142027	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142036	Thank you. As our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Henning Hyllested, unable to be present, I shall try to state his position with the linguistic tone he has usually had I hope it succeeds. This is heartblood for the Enhedslisten, who has worked for years for ordering conditions for the drivers and for the hauliers for that matter on the Danish roads. For drivers, this means that there will be a bottom limit to how poor they can be treated. We are delighted when we succeed. For road hauliers, who are protected from unbearable competition and raced against the bottom, when it comes to the competition to make the lowest possible conditions for drivers, this will also mean a big boost. It started with a conciliation after a very long process, and since then this legislation has been started, but the political negotiations have taken weeks and months and hundreds of man-hours in the negotiating rooms. We think something good's gonna come out of this. With the control mechanisms that we also believe to be important, there is hope that it will be a little easier to enforce the rules and that abuse will be punished so that it can be felt. In the Enhedslisten, we think that we have made a great deal of progress in the fight against social dumping on the roads, and we are therefore pleased that the bill is being received so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142214	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142222	Thank you very much. On the whole, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to make it quite clear that we are in favour of and are working for orderly conditions in the road haulage industry, including proper pay and working conditions for drivers driving goods in Denmark. In our optics, there are two main elements of this political agreement from January 2020, which the bill is intended to implement: the same framework conditions must apply in relation to labour costs when Danish and foreign transport companies drive goods on Danish roads, and the agreement must be implemented in full respect of the freedom of association and applicable collective labour law. So we fully support that. However, the proposed bill on amendments to the Road Transport Act and the Posting of Workers Act raises some concern on our part, and that is in relation to ensuring this freedom of association. There is still a need for clearer wording in the legislative text and comments on the draft law, so that it is made clearer and also ensured that hauliers can choose between different national agreements in the future too, so that the draft law cannot in any way talk about the monopoly of any kind of company. The reason why these points are so extremely important is, of course, that this draft law refers to the basic law on road transport itself. It is therefore important, for our part, that proper pay and working conditions are guaranteed. It is not essential to follow a particular agreement, and it is therefore a clear wish on our part that national agreements which do not differ significantly and unequivocally from the 3F agreements are treated in the same way as theirs. At this stage in my optics, this is not clear enough either in the draft law or in the comments. One of the crucial points in this is, of course, this pre-approval, which must be on the agreement and not at company level. That is where we see that we can make a decisive difference. We just need to know that if a company applies with an agreement, they have to get on with this work before they get approved, as it looks right now. I just want to say that without a permit for goods, no driving and thus no turnover. And turnover is something we all like. Another point that I have stumbled upon is that we are building this agreement on the fact that Danish and foreign companies have to compete on equal terms, but the bill states that the cost level must follow both Danish and foreign hauliers. As the draft law has been put forward, it does not apply to agreements in which 3F is party. This may sound a little strange, but all 3F's agreements can thus form the basis for goods transport permits regardless of the actual level, and therefore there are agreements within 3F, where wages are lower than 3F's transport agreements, among other things. the industrial agreement and construction agreements, and I think there is something for dairy driving, etc. This means that if the draft law is adopted in its present form, there could be a wage dumping with a 3F agreement which has a lower cost level than the transport agreement. And that basically breaks with the very purpose of this bill, which contributes to fine, healthy competitive conditions. I recognise that we have come very, very far in those negotiations. I personally think that the latter is missing, in other words this very thing about getting these agreements approved in advance. We will be following the negotiations on the proposal, but as things stand right now, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142622	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142624	We can, of course, clarify this during the committee's reading, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. But isn't the thing just that sir... Niels Flemming Hansen mixes the minimum wage agreement area with the normal wage agreement area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142638	No, I don't think I do, but let's take a look at it in the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142646	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142647	But that is exactly what distinguishes the transport contract, which is a minimum wage agreement, from the building contract, which is a normal wage agreement. That's why you can't, like Mr. Knox. Niels Flemming Hansen does, go in and then just compare contract areas when they are different and when they are based on different principles. In other words, it is reflected in the fact that, compared to a minimum wage agreement, it is expected to work on it; it is not done on the others where you negotiate upstairs. I think it is only because two types of agreement are mixed together, and you can have that in the same league because you cover different sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142719	Mr. Karsten Hønge thus that you cannot enter and drive freight on other agreements than those that lie here? Perhaps we should have an answer from the Minister later, in relation to what kind of agreements it is, or in relation to what kind of goods can drive underneath this. It's just to make sure that it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142743	Well, it's hard for Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge to answer; for I give him not the word. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507142755	Thank you so much. In January, most of the parties in the Folketing concluded an agreement to ensure orderly conditions in the road transport sector. And in New Citizens we very much recognise that globalisation has consequences. We certainly do not want to see underpaid foreign drivers driving cabotage in Denmark in poor conditions. We agreed to the agreement precisely because we wanted to contribute to ensuring it. There was broad agreement in the agreement that there should be arrangements on the roads, that there should be a level playing field and that, of course, freedom of association should be maintained. That is what I said at the time, and that is what I am saying today. We have a whole business future in our hands. But with the law we're dealing with today, I'm afraid I'll think of the song about Larsen: It could be so good, but now it's actually bad. First of all, I would like to say that it has been a hectic, hasty and incredibly messy process; a process that started incredibly badly and certainly did not improve as we have worked on the bill. The draft law simply does not live up to the agreement that was reached; the agreement which points out two specific things: 1) the same framework conditions should apply to wage costs when Danish and foreign hauliers drive goods on Danish roads; 2) the agreement must be implemented in full respect of the freedom of association and applicable collective labour law. And I am therefore concerned about both, but this is particularly the last point that I am really concerned about in this draft law and which means that New Citizens cannot support the bill as it stands here. And there are several reasons for this. There is a need for a clear definition in the draft law, in relation to the fact that hauliers can also choose between several agreements in the future. There simply needs to be a prior approval of all the collective agreements, for example. KA • Christian Employers' Association • ITD and the Trade Union House. And these must of course be shown from the start on a positive list on the Danish Trade Authority's website from the start of, and not after, a longer procedure with both the Board and the Contract Board, after the bill has been adopted. This would only create uncertainty among road hauliers and certainly contribute to the fact that some of pure uncertainty simply opts for a 3F agreement. The other collective agreements must, of course, be treated in the same way as 3F, and they have not been dealt with in this bill. The second point is that a legislative proposal is being made which actually makes a separate point which allows 3F agreements to always be able to pay less than other collective agreements. This makes absolutely no sense, and it actually only confirms the first impression that the Minister simply wants to give 3F a real monopoly by the back road. We have asked a lot of questions in the debate, before the bill was tabled. In short, we have received answers in the East and in the West. The responses in the consultation note were different from those from the Ministry and the wordings in the agreement are different from those in the comments to the law. It seems either incredibly sloppy or clever. We agreed to this agreement with a clear assumption that we would be able to secure orderly conditions in this area and guarantee freedom of association. That is what the agreement says. Unfortunately, the Minister chooses to neglect that, and that is really, really a pity. This bill doesn't solve the problems, on the contrary. It gives separate rights to 3F; a union and a federation which we can already see is already using determined bullying methods. We don't want to give 3F a monopoly, and that's why New Citizens can't, of course, support this bill, as it is now, it could be so good, but now it's actually bad. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143157	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143202	I just want to hear the rapporteur: now that Krifa and KA and the Chamber of Commerce say that their agreements fully comply with the agreements that 3F has, why should it do so that the road hauliers would be nervous about concluding an agreement with, for example, the United Kingdom? Krifa, when their agreement is fully at the level of the 3F agreements on the basis of the parameters to be used to calculate the level of agreement? I do not see that it should cause the hauliers to be scared away and to say that they will not make an agreement with them because they are not approved. After all, they are approved to live up to it when they apply for a freight service. But why should it scare the road hauliers away when they can see that the agreement they will then enter into with Krifa is fully in line with the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143311	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for asking this question, because then I can just make it clear that today it is the case that these agreements also feature on the website of the Danish Works Council. That's exactly what we've been asking for. You have to pre-authorise these other collective agreements because they live up to this, so they must of course speak on the website of the Danish Trade Authority, but they should not do so after a long process and after it also has to go through an agreement board where 3F is also over-represented. This has to happen from the start, so you look at the terms of the agreements, and then it has to be written on the website right away. That is what we asked for, and I cannot understand why it has not been done from the outset, because it would remove a great deal of uncertainty in the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143358	Well, then, sir. Bent Bøgsted one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143404	I understand what is being said, because the Danish People's Party wanted it to be written in from the beginning, but it was also made clear that with very few permits to drive, you had a level where you could recognise that it was on the website. That's what's come here. But I am a little unsure whether New Citizens really think it is a good thing that one should still be able to drive away without an agreement to a lower salary and whether that is what New Citizens want.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143438	No, and I think I have made that very, very clear at the beginning. We had every opportunity to make a really, really good move to tackle this particular problem. That's just not what's happening with this bill. At the same time, you will then be opening up specifically in § 6 paragraph. 3, paragraph 2, that all other agreements negotiated by the most representative, i.e. 3F, can thus be granted this goods transport permit. This means that 3F can in principle negotiate worse agreements than the overall level there is. So, no, we're just trying to make sure that things are fixed, and that's why we can't back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143523	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge from SF, meaning Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143527	I almost thought it was a lie. Here we have a trade union, 3F, as the thugs in the same context as we are dealing with a bill, where we are just presented with one example after another, that employers take hard advantage of subdued, underpaid workers from Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and the Philippines, and yet New Citizens choose to say that it is 3F who are the bullies, that is, while we can read everywhere how people are forced to work under almost slave-like conditions. At least that's where we got the proportions from the New Citizen. Well, I now have a different subdued question for Mrs Mette Thiesen. As far as this is concerned, with the immediate inclusion of agreements on a positive list, there are no conditions at all for what needs to be done. What is part of Mrs Mette Thiesen's term of a collective agreement? What does it take to have an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143616	I am incredibly surprised that the rapporteur can ask that question. There are many really, really good collective agreements in Denmark. Some specific ones have been mentioned here: ITD, KA, Krifa. In other words, there are plenty of very good examples of alternative agreements which must, of course, be fully guaranteed. I mean, this is about securing conditions for these drivers, but it is also about guaranteeing freedom of association, and indeed it is also about ensuring that we have equal and free competition in this area. And that's what I started by saying. This is about the fact that we have a whole business future in our hands and then you make a sloppy bill where there is no answer to very specific things, I simply do not think that is right either. But it is not at all right to go in and try to give a monopoly to 3F, and that is actually what I said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143718	Yes, yes, the bang talk continued, but no answer came. I would like to ask again: if it is just that there should be an agreement, can Mrs Mette Thiesen use the next time Mrs Mette Thiesen has the floor to explain what it takes to get on this positive list? I can hear that the concept of collective agreement is being used. The collective means that there must at least be more than one; we must agree on that. Does this mean, for example, that if there is a trucker in North Jutland who makes an agreement with two drivers, it is strictly a collective agreement that is enough to put it on the list, or how much will it take before you have a collective agreement? I believe that when it was so important that it should not get past an agreement board which can actually assess whether it is or not, then I have to take the view that it is enough for a trucker to make an agreement with two drivers. Then we know where we end up, which is down to the bottom of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143804	Well, thank you for letting me clarify that. The rapporteur's question very clearly suggests that the rapporteur did not actually read the draft law, because what we actually got pressed in after hard work along the way by both the Conservative People's Party and the New Citizens' Party was in fact that this was supposed to be national collective agreements. So ten people can't just agree to make a desk appointment. In fact, it is written in the draft law and in the comments that are made to it, so that we could perhaps read that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143840	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. There are no more questions, and the next rapporteur is the hard-working debater of the Liberal Alliance in the Chamber, Mr President. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507143853	Thank you for the word and the words of appreciation. Bill No. L 185 does not reach the heart of the Kurt Beier case, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg said earlier. For the heart of the matter was that Filipino drivers were employed according to applicable rules in another EU country under the Posting of Workers Directive, i.e. posted to Denmark. And that's not gonna solve this bill. There will be no change at all. So exactly in relation to the Kurt Beier case, this proposal is purely symbolic policy, which does not change anything. That case could happen again, sort of. What the bill does is quite different. First of all, it undermines the Danish labour market model, and in practice it nationalises wage formation in transport on the basis of 3F's agreement, and of course we are not in favour of that. Secondly, it undermines the principle of the free movement of workers. After all, it is already the case that in a large number of EU countries there is a need for comprehensive proof of pay and employment conditions when you are a driver on a truck. Now Denmark joins the ranks of countries that red tape and nationalise the rules further. And even if that has not happened yet, the day is not far off when you will see trucks driving around on the roads with such a small trailer with documents if they just have to move around Europe. It goes the wrong way everywhere in Europe with freedom of movement, and more and more demands are being made on documentation and bureaucracy. We are not in favour of nationalisation of wage formation or undermining the Danish model or undermining free movement. That's why we've never been in this deal. We are glad that there are others who can also see how bad it is, and I think that is very encouraging. It sends out a slightly clearer signal as to how politically symbolic and how poor this law actually is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144108	You're welcome. This did not lead to any brief comments. And then it is my pleasure to welcome the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144117	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate so far and for the comments that have fallen. I would also like to start by thanking the parties for the great flexibility and willingness to negotiate, which form the basis for us to be able to table the bill today. The bill marks a milestone in the work to prevent obscene pay and working conditions in road transport. It is an important priority for the government to ensure orderly pay and working conditions in the transport industry for drivers driving on Danish roads. This applies regardless of whether the driver is employed in a Danish or foreign transport company, and it is equally central that Danish hauliers have fair and healthy framework conditions. I have said this many times before, but I would like to repeat it here today: wage dumping does not belong in Danish workplaces or Danish roads. It must have consistency if hauliers do not comply with the rules and undermine competitors with unacceptable wages. We must take effective action against this for the benefit of drivers and all road hauliers who comply with the rules. Overall, the bill sets a cost level for how Danish and foreign hauliers should pay their drivers for bus or freight services in Denmark. As a result, we tighten up the requirements for the remuneration of drivers for both Danish and foreign hauliers, so that there will be a level playing field for everyone when they drive on the Danish roads. I would like to emphasise that this is an isolated solution in the area of road transport, where there are particular challenges that require legislation requiring a certain level of remuneration costs, all in order to ensure fair competition in relation to national driving in Denmark. In relation to Danish transport companies, we are tightening up the requirements for the cost level to be followed in the future in order to obtain a licence. A transport undertaking must in future be subject to or follow a cost level which does not differ significantly and unambiguously from the overall cost level of the collective agreements concluded by the most representative social partners in the field and which applies throughout the Danish territory. In addition, the company can also meet the cost requirement if the company is subject to a national driver agreement where the cost level is at the level of the guiding agreements. The cost level of the most representative social partners' agreements has been chosen to ensure that we have conditions in the industry at an appropriate level and to clarify the standard or standard of pay and working conditions which de facto guide the industry qua the professional organization which represents the most employees in the professional field. It is the Danish Trade Agency, which will continue to manage the area. It will also be the Danish Trade Administration which will carry out the concrete estimates of the cost level in the agreements which are intended to form the basis for a road haulage permit. I would like to stress that all Danish licence holders will be subject to uniform ex post controls regardless of their contractual conditions. At the same time, we introduce completely new requirements for foreign transport companies, all of them, which run cabotage or combined transport in Denmark, and are thus in direct competition with Danish companies. Firstly, foreign companies will in future have to pay their drivers a calculated hourly rate, which will be determined on the basis of the cost level in accordance with the most representative agreements. Secondly, foreign carriers will in future have to notify and record a number of information about their driving in Denmark so that it will be possible for the authorities to control and enforce the remuneration requirement. For the purposes of this control, a separate notification system will be established in the transport sector, which will be able to adapt to the specific needs and characteristics of the industry and the control of the authorities. In relation to the foreign transport companies, this is a new control task concerning remuneration, which is to be carried out by the police and the works council. It is crucial that we ensure proper implementation of the proposed changes and that Danish companies have the opportunity to adapt to the new requirements. That is why we are calling for companies with existing permits to have a transition period of six months from the legislation to be fully implemented and for companies to meet the new cost level. At the same time, there will be the possibility of exemption for companies where the changes will be particularly burdensome. Finally, the scheme will have to be evaluated two years after the changes have been fully implemented. Once again, I would like to thank you for the discussion and look forward to further discussions and a good and thorough examination of the draft law in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144604	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Niels Flemming Hansen from Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144611	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, for that statement, and thank you very much for the negotiations we have been through. It has been a good and fine dialogue we have had through this. Could the Minister not try to explain to me how we can solve this problem? How can we create an administrative legal basis so that alternative national agreements can be approved in advance? That is what we are discussing here. This is a very, very small part that the Minister must take on. I'd really, really like to hear about that. What's it gonna take to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144652-2	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party for being constructive throughout. I also hope that the rapporteur has the experience that I, as a minister and also the government, have listened to the wishes that have been expressed. In fact, I sincerely believe that we have solved the problem outlined by the rapporteur, namely by inserting this new paragraph 3 paragraph. 2 in Section 6, which specifically provides for the possibility of prior approval. Well, of course it's the same way that I could feel in the debate before the fact that there has to be some kind of review of whether other national agreements meet that cost level. But as soon as it has been tested and done, they will be able to obtain the prior approval which will enable all the companies covered by the national agreement to obtain a permit for the carriage of goods. This is, in fact, the concession that we have given not only to the rapporteur's party, but also to a number of other parties which I think have rightly expressed this wish. That is why it is also included in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144807	Thank you for that answer. I still don't understand, but it may be me, who is more easily ill-advised... why there has to be a difference between a 3F agreement that is pre-approved, and so, for example. a Krifa agreement. We should be able to do this in advance so that we do not put the alternative or the other agreements in an emergency, we can say, at least in a situation where there is some kind of imbalance in relation to the two agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144847	I do not think, nor do I see that there will be that imbalance. In other words, the whole bill is based on allowing the most representative agreements to set the direction of what the cost level should be. We are doing this most of all in order to be able to set a cost level for foreign drivers. This must also apply in accordance with EU law, in principles, etc. for national enterprises. When we have set the cost level based on the most representative, which is, moreover, a well-known grip, we have used many times before we do it in the Posting of Workers Act, we have done it in the Temporary Employment Act, we do it in the Circular for Work Clauses, then it is from there that it is said that there must then be some kind of review of which other national collective agreements live up to that level. And then it can be found that they live up to that level. I sincerely hope that the vast majority of people will do so, because I basically hope that the drivers who work hard and spend many hours in the trucks will have the best possible wage and working conditions that have been agreed. To the extent that other national collective agreements comply with that level, they will be pre-approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144958	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507144959	Thank you so much. That kind of leads me to my question, because it was mentioned here earlier with the industrial agreement, and the industrial agreement, which is therefore also negotiated by 3F, is somewhat lower than the overall cost level of approx. 120 kroner. It's an hour. It is a minimum wage agreement, but it is, for example, a wage agreement. ITD's and KA's, as it were. But with this bill you are demanding, for example. ITD and KA say that they have to live up to the normal wage in 3F's driver agreement, but at the same time the bill says that 3F's minimum wage agreements obviously do not have to live up to the same level as the ITD and KA agreements. How does this relate to wanting to be equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145055	First of all, there is a difference between the different types of agreement which Mr. Karsten Hønge also referred to before. But basically, the provision is what we are talking about here, i.e. §6, paragraph 6. No. 3, No. In the case of agreements which are not really agreements between drivers in the transport sector, but which nevertheless provide for the remuneration of the driver's work carried out, it is possible to do so in accordance with Article 6 (2) of the directive. No. 3, No. 2. to pay the driver's allowance a little less than the transport agreements. However, I would like to remind you that in these agreements, the pay and working conditions of drivers must be seen in the context of the other provisions of the agreement on pay and working conditions, and therefore it does not necessarily make sense to make a simple comparison of the pay of drivers across these agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145153	I don't really think that was that much of an answer. Because it's not fair that there's a part of the law where you just go out and say that okay, you can actually also get a freight license if you just get it negotiated home by the right people, i.e. if the agreement is just negotiated by the right people. That doesn't make any sense. That was not the intention of the agreement, but it was precisely to guarantee freedom of association and to ensure that there was free competition, including in terms of the possibility of having different agreements. That was one thing. The second point I want to make is that we already have a positive list in another legislation, namely in the taxi law, and this could have been done in the same way here. There is nothing to prevent that. Because there must of course be a pre-approval of these alternative agreements, and then, before the bill is finally implemented, you can go in and look at them and see if there are the things that need to be. And there is. But why is it so stubborn to insist that they should not get on a positive list by then and thus secure those who have agreements there and who would like to have a new permit for the carriage of goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145307	I have no need to hold on stubbornly to anything and, as I also said to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Niels Flemming Matthiesen, I actually believe that the rapporteur's wish has been met. In other words, we have inserted a completely new point in Paragraph 6 which says that it will be possible to pre-authorize national collective agreements, by the way, a point which was not in advance in the draft law. The grant is given and, by the way, a point which was not part of the agreement reached by the social partners which paved the way for this draft law. So I actually think that the rapporteur and the other parties should take this with them as a significant concession in relation to this. The second point I would like to make is that, as soon as the law has entered into force, the Danish Trade Administration will have prepared itself for what kind of agreements reach the specific level of costs and what kind of agreements it is that do not. As soon as there are national collective agreements and both parties with each other in hand come to the Danish Trade Administration and say that they would like to have a prior approval, it will be tested as soon as possible, and if they meet the cost level, they are pre-approved and it covers all the companies covered by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145428	And the rapporteur from the Conservatives is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, and he has tried to get in here now, but I assume it is a mistake and not an attempt to cheat the President. But you can't get the floor twice. I don't know if it was a technical error. Others were on too, but have withdrawn, so there are no more questions for the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145511	Before embarking on the negotiations, I must point out that we in the Bureau have decided to change the way in which the negotiations are conducted. The change means that all speeches are taken out of the seats, both ministerial and rapporteur speeches and short remarks. In order to draw up the minutes, it is very important not to start talking until the red in the ring on the microphone lights up. As usual, you will be able to see the remaining speaking time at the bottom right of the voting panel. It was a very thorough briefing to you. The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Education is the first to speak. Is she ready? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507145624	Absolutely, yes. Thank you. I just have to get used to the fact that the platform is in the wrong place, and I look very much forward to everything in our society going back to normal, including talking from the same place in the Parliamentary Chamber as usual. It's gonna be so infinitely easier. One can then be pleased that we have again started to discuss issues that are not about corona. We have now done some time, and it is absolutely liberating to be allowed to do so again. I think that somehow we've all missed that. With this proposal, New Citizens will now allow parents to decide for themselves whether their child should start in kindergarten before the age of three. I would like to stress there in relation to the part about whether you should be able to speculate on doing something specific for the sake of economy, that of course we do not think it should be possible, and thus also said that the best interests of the child should always be in focus when the age limit for promotion is fixed and the actual transition is planned. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that this proposal presents a number of challenges which also mean that the government does not support it. In Denmark we have a welfare model with local self-government, and we do, because we believe that it is local, that we have the best knowledge of the wishes and needs of our citizens, and that it is thus also local, that we know best how to meet them and where to account for the choices we then make. Among other things: For this reason, we have laid the responsibility under the day-off law for determining the transitions from crèches to kindergartens at the municipality and for organising the specific transitions of the responsible managers. On the other hand, we are demanding in the law that children should go in an age-matching offer. This means that the crèche or kindergarten must be relevant in relation to the age of the child and the stage of development it is at, and that is why we also demand that day care institutions and day care should cooperate with parents on the transitions that exist. After all, we see that the transition is determined and organised differently in the municipalities. For example: there may be different age divisions in the children's group. Some municipalities have chosen to have two age divisions, and others have three age divisions, and there are places where you have day care and day nurseries for the larger ones, while others have age-integrated day care institutions and therefore have several age groups in the same institution. Actually, the change that's being brought up here gives you leg buckles to make these local solutions. I think in some way, although I enjoy that we can also debate something other than corona, that there must be some lessons to be learned from the coronatide. One of the things I have taken down is that they are very good at making solutions for themselves out there, and I do not understand it if what New Citizens think, after Corona has hit, where day institutions all over the country have delivered first a shutdown, then a gradual reopening, where they have found a myriad of various good solutions within the framework there is, is: let us from here make some rules that then make it impossible for them to make decisions themselves out there. I simply do not understand that. I just have to admit that. In any case, that is not what I, as Minister, have concluded, on the contrary. In relation to the thing about starting to put in such things, where collective solutions are prevented, I would say that if I have to rank something and that is not because I support the SF's bid for the same thing, SF has already suggested that there should be a standard that the child should be 3 years before it moved up. At least that means you can still plan. So I am in favour of introducing a quality standard, but it would still be possible to plan collectively. So it's not because I'd rather support it. As a responsible government, we would have to find money for this and make everything else responsible for it. It's just to say that if you're going to go into this track at all, I'd say that, like SF among other things. We have proposed that the possibility of collective solutions should still be left open. This is gonna ruin the opportunity. Then I have even been one of those who had children in an institution where you didn't have that distinction, and that means that I can also personally sign that there are actually incredibly good solutions where you have chosen to go across what you want from both the New Citizens' Party, but also from the SF to make national guidelines to undermine it. Actually, I don't quite understand that. And then there are a lot of questions that open up on the back of this, among other things.: How long in advance should a family say that? Is it a right that you are endowed with and when the child then starts in an age-integrated institution when it is e.g. 10 or 12 months, can you fully report it until the child is 2 years and 8 months or 2 years and 10 months? Or when should it be reported in relation to the planning that must be in a group of children, where the educators are responsible for good transitions? Is that 1⁄2 years before? Is it a year before? Is that two months before? After all, all these things are of crucial importance when educators have to sit down and say: we have this group of children. They've got transitions at these times, so we're gonna have to get some extra power off there. If each parent can then just pull the plug on it, the individual's choice means that the other children get worse transitions. All these things have not been taken into account in the motion for a resolution tabled by the new citizens. In other words, apart from the fact that I am simply against the side of the battle, I think that there should be so much freedom to plan the work of the institutions in a proper way. I can agree to quality standards, but the thing about intervening in this way I just think is a bad idea. Summa summarum is that I believe that all sorts of dilemmas that come in the wake of what has not been decided have yet been settled. Nor is there any funding assigned, and that is the easy way to be in the Folketing, is it not? You just throw up exciting things on the air, and then you hope somebody else pays the bill. I do not really think that is any way to make politics, I must admit. So there is no funding, there is no answer to the dilemmas that come in the wake of it, and you deprive them of the opportunity to plan the offers that you now think are relevant out there at a time when, in fact, I think that educators and managers and, incidentally, municipalities have shown themselves very, very talented in making really good and relevant offers. All in all, it's nice to discuss something other than corona. We will not be supporting this proposal, but thank you for the opportunity to have a discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150302	Thank you very much, and there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150306	Thank you so much. Then I can reassure the Minister that the Minister seems to have misunderstood this proposal, because it is not really about Christiansborg sitting and deciding. After all, it is precisely a question of the parents being called upon to decide. They're the ones who know their children best. And I know that the Minister and I, and New Citizens in general, look very differently at this with the collective towards the individual, if you can put it that way. We believe that basically it is quite natural that you should of course not sit as a municipality and could speculate about sending children early on off in kindergarten really early to save money. Of course, it must be the parents who make a clear decision about it if it is that you want your child to start earlier. So this is not something to be decided by Christiansborg. It is quite common sense that it is the parents, because since 2008 we have actually seen a quadruple of how many people go to kindergarten earlier, that is, before their 3-year birthday. So it's basically just to get to it and secure the parents' real free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150416	But so, there is still no answer to those who, in my opinion, basic dilemmas in this motion for a resolution, in relation to how one really imagines that it should be planned on the basis of what the parents should say in good time? So when you come up with such a proposal, which is unfinanced, where you intend to put obstacles in the way of making the day offers that you think are the most exciting and developing for the children, the best educational offer, then perhaps it is fair that you can also respond to some of the fundamental dilemmas that arise in the wake of it. I believe that it is basically the case that, when we enter into the legislation, it should be a relevant offer made to children, based on their level of development, that is to say, where they are of age, we have taken these things into account. And I cannot see from what New Citizens have brought here that there are plenty of examples of children where you have not listened if it is the case that the child is at a level of development where it is too early for them to start. I just do not see that from the proposal that New Citizens have made, and that means that it seems to me that there is a complete lack of that burning platform to remove something fundamental like being able to make daily offers in the way one wants it, in which, of course, the child's level of development must be taken into account. I think this is the wrong way to go. So, I think that the liberation of professional energy and commitment that we have seen in relation to corona makes me want to go the very opposite way and simply say that there must be much greater freedom to plan the day offers as it is. And that is one of the things I hope we can discuss with each other as parties when we get on the other side of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150554	In other words, I have complete confidence that each institution will be able to withdraw if it is that they need parents to report whether their children may have to start before they reach the age of three, and I do not think there is any problem at all in that regard. I do not know whether the Minister wants us to have written a specific date into the resolution or what. It is also quite the same as some of what has been written into the understanding paper that the government has made together with the support parties, i.e. this school start-up thing that you should of course also be able to choose to start later in school and that you should not be pushed into school too soon. That is something we support wholeheartedly, too. This is about free elections because we have seen a dull trend and because we have seen some really bad examples that you in the municipalities are doing something completely different. As far as funding is concerned, it is precisely that the municipalities should not speculate about saving money at the expense of the best interests of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150656	I do not at all disagree with the fact that there may be municipalities that have spared too much in the area of children. There may certainly be, and they may have used all kinds of tools for that, but I think that is a bad idea. I mean, the children's area is just as much on my mind, so starting to speculate about saving in a children's area I think is a bad idea. I believe that the children's area is the best place to invest in it at all. I am just surprised when New Citizens say that it should also be in the minds of New Citizens that they choose to put forward a proposal which is unfunded. Investing in children is not done by laying out something where you put in a standard without making money for it. I mean, I just don't think that's the right way to do things. So it's just to say, no, I don't believe it. There's too much Christiansborg in this, and there's too little money in it, so that's not the way I think we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150748	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I shall then proceed with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507150801	Thank you. There is no doubt that one of the most crucial things for the children's experience in the institution is one of the most crucial things for children's Therefore, it is extremely important that they are made as best they can. But good transitions are not just about the individual child, but also about the group of children that you are a part of, and those that you fit in with, by the way, according to how developed you are. When New Citizens make it a question that, in order for parents to say individually that they want to move their child for a certain week, I would say that the solution I have experienced in my daughter's institution where they have made an intermediate group, so that they make sure, so to speak, that when you start in kindergarten, you don't start with those who are going to school, where there may be a little more fucking, but then you start with some of those with whom you are contemporaries, and by the way with a standards that are called eight children and two adults, i.e. somewhere between nursery and kindergarten, I think I'm a very good solution that I've been very comfortable and that my daughter has experienced as really good. And it has come about on the basis of some educational assessments in the institution, some management priorities that have been said: what is important to us is to ensure as gentle a transition as possible with the children's group we have. Quite frankly, I think that we should stick to giving the opportunity out there. It is, of course, about local self-government, but it is also about respect for the professionalism of the educators, of the leaders of the institutions, of being able to act with their children's group. Where I then agree with New Citizens is where they think it should of course not be the case that what dictates when children should change to kindergarten is the municipal economy. That is why it is certain that we must send out the message from Christiansborg that it is the best interests of the child, just as the legislation also states that we must offer age-related offers, so it is the child who comes before the economy. Moreover, we have also agreed - and this is not a majority in which new citizens are involved - that we will set minimum standards, that is to say that we will ensure standards in the field of children, which means that the possibility, if we may say so, of moving the money elsewhere in the municipalities will be locked, so that we simply have to secure the right offers for the children. We really think that is much better. Then, on a motion for a resolution which has been tabled here and which lacks funding, I would say that perhaps it also lacks a little bit of seriousness. However, we would like to send out the clear signal that the municipalities should not move on the children as a saving exercise. We would then rather discuss how to make quality standards, how to ensure that there are enough hands around the children, and also leave it up to the institutions and municipalities to ensure the gentlest, the softest transition with a view to ensuring that there is as much time as possible between children and adults. We think this is the most important thing for children's development.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151100	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur, so we will move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151110	Thank you for that, President. There should be no doubt that we in the Left are very committed to ensuring good quality in our day care institutions. With the 2017 Finance Act, the Left and the other blue parties set aside 580 million. kr. over the next four years to improve conditions in the day institutions. In addition, the Left was in charge of allocating 1 billion. kr. to strengthen the efforts of children in vulnerable families • money, such as: also went to several educators. It is a measure to give children a better and safer everyday life and to help break the negative social heritage. For us, it is essential that we strengthen the PPR. That is why it is also important for the Left that we get the agreement we made before the elections to strengthen the PPR, and we are also keeping the current government up to that. Because this is where it really makes sense to take action. The professionals in the PPR are those who are going to intercept the children who are actually going to be given kindergarten. At the same time, we in the Left also cherish local self-government. In Denmark we have chosen a model where there should be room for individual and local consideration. That is why we have municipal autonomy. This means, of course, that there are many different approaches to how local services are structured and organised, and this also applies to day offers. It would be a breach of this principle of subsidiarity if Christiansborg's side were to begin to regulate in detail how the municipalities should organise the tasks that they are naturally best at solving. Some municipalities have chosen to have day institutions with several age groups in the same day institution; there are also examples of places where the children are divided into groups corresponding to their age and then once a year they move to a new room. So this is not a big jump from, for example. crèche for kindergarten. In other words, there are a number of different models and a number of different solutions, and it is out locally that you best decide how to organize yourself. New citizens have tabled a resolution which will allow parents to decide for themselves whether their children should start kindergarten before the child reaches the age of 3. In fact, I think the intention is very good. It is a matter that has been widely discussed by professionals, parents and the press for several years, but there is no doubt that there are municipalities where the economics have been decided to move the nursery start so it was earlier. There we have said quite clearly, while we were in government, that it must never be the economy that matters, but always the best interests of the child. As the rules are today, it is the individual municipality that decides when a child should start in kindergarten. In the Left we also wonder if there could be some parents who think that and you can't see that for yourself to think as a parent to young children that their child should stay in the crèche or in day care, while professionals judge that it's actually good for this child to move on to kindergarten and that the child is actually ready for it. This could mean that the child will miss out on the development that it will lead to in kindergarten. As has already been said, we are very much in favour of local self-government. Decisions on citizens' welfare must be taken as close to the citizens as possible, that is, by the municipalities and not here at Christiansborg. We cannot therefore support the fact that the municipalities are being deprived of the opportunity to decide when children in the day-to-day age should move from one day-to-day offer to another. With these words, the Left cannot support the resolution, but we would like to make it absolutely clear that the best interests of the child are the Left, and I have signalled this very strongly here in my rapporteur's speech. It can be done in many different ways out there locally, but bottom line is that consideration for the individual child always comes first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151501	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151504	Thank you so much. I'll try to turn a little while while I'm talking down the microphone. The Left rapporteur says that it must never be the economy that decides. The fact is that this is what happens in many municipalities. In fact, it is so violent that it has been quadrupled since 2008. Well, today 48 of the country's municipalities let their children start in kindergarten before their 3rd birthday, and back in 2008, it was only 12. So that is what is happening, and that is the movement that is taking place, even though it is against the recommendations of all experts. So what I really want to ask is: is it really the case that the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, gives greater consideration to the municipality than the parents' free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151555	As far as this is concerned, how many municipalities are sending out before the age of three, I am very much in favour of municipal autonomy, and I think it is actually very good that some municipalities say: we send the children when they are 2 years and 10 months or 2 years and 11 months, but in return we put in extra resources elsewhere. And it is also my experience as a city council politician that there is just so much difference between what kind of children we are dealing with, and therefore there can also be a lot of difference between when these children need to go. In the City of Odense, where I have been a council member, we have sent them off at the age of 2 years and 10 months, but in return we set in with some resources elsewhere. It can, for example, be done. It is easy to say that children with autism who need to be shielded can benefit from leaving at the age of 2 years and 10 months, but that in turn they need more protection. Children are so different and I do not buy on the premise that all children are best placed to go at the age of 3 because that is what parents want. And I would say that I myself, as a parent, cannot say that six months ago I had told my daughter to wait until she turned 3 years old, but now she has just started at the age of 2 years and 10 months, and she is feeling really, really good, and it is also freedom for me as a parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151703	I'm really glad to hear that, but it seems a little misunderstood, because this is just about the parents being able to decide. I fully recognise that children are extremely different, and that is why I also recognise that it is parents who know their children best, and I would much rather ensure that it is parents who decide whether their child is ready to move forward before the age of three than that it should be a municipal priority of financial resources. I have to say. I also have to ask quite specifically: Does the Left believe that it is also the municipality or parents of children with autism who know their child and their child's needs best?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151801	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, both now and in the past, when we were in government ourselves, we have signalled very strongly that it must never be for economic reasons alone. However, there can easily be a very good logic in the fact that each municipal council or city council decides that the child should leave before the third year, if there are other incentives that make it possible for resources to be deployed elsewhere instead. We parents know our children best, but there are also professionals, especially when it comes to children with special needs, such as: Autism that needs to be taken into account, and that is why I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that it is so important that we strengthen the PPR, because these professionals must go both to school and to kindergarten and see if there are in fact some children to be intercepted and whose start in kindergarten and school must be postponed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151905	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, so I would like to welcome Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507151917	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we think it is important that children can be cared for in a safe environment and that they do not go to kindergarten until they are ready for it. In the past it was interpreted as an age of 3 years, but now it is becoming more and more widespread to send children earlier in kindergarten if they are assessed to be ready for it. This proposal will leave it up to parents to decide when they are ready. We in the Danish People's Party are very sympathetic to this view, as we believe that children are parents' and not institutions' or society's. On the other hand, we must remember the old wisdom that you can 10 times more than you think, and 20 times more than your mother thinks. I know from a teacher with long experience that it is certainly not uncommon to meet parents who do not believe that their children can as much as they actually can, and I therefore believe that close cooperation between educators and parents in this context is a good idea, and I think it would be wrong to leave it 100 per cent. Up to the parents, if the child is ready. This is especially true if the child spends most of his time in the institution in advance and thus actually has a close and perhaps even closest contact with the educators. It should be possible to find a solution in dialogue. If many children come later in kindergarten, it will cost quite a lot. From a previous debate here in Things about changing age, so it became mandatory that all children were 3 years old before they were allowed to start kindergarten, I have been informed that the amount was estimated at 325 million. kr. a year. I do not know if it is realistic about this proposal and I do not know if there is an estimate of what this proposal will cost. It may also be difficult to make one of these, but it would be nice to know how much you estimate it will cost. It would also be nice to know where that money will come from, because that is something we need to know. We would therefore believe that this resolution could be replaced by an invitation to institutions, parents and municipalities to ensure better and closer cooperation on when the child is ready for kindergarten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152119	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152129	Thank you. In fact, I would like to start by saying that I think it was a good proposal that came here at the end of the Danish People's Party to encourage more cooperation between parents and educators on these transitions, and it is also worth including when we agree on a number of occasions, also in the field of children. I would also like to say that I think more standards are needed in the area of children. We have many in the school area, but it's as if the smallest children aren't really in it. We now have minimum standards, and I would also like to see some standards in the area of children, for example, starting with starting when you are three years old. Then, of course, you can start before, especially in dialogue with parents and educators. If there are some educators who estimate that the child will be ready for that and if there are some parents who also think it is a good idea, then I think it should be possible to do so. Because there aren't any children who should start in kindergarten when they're not ready for it, and the parents should feel good about it. However, the way in which the proposal here is knitted together, I would probably have liked to have looked at another way where there had been minimum standards and then ensuring that parents and educators, the professional staff, should of course agree that if you start earlier, it should also be in the child's best interests. Finally, I would like to say that this is just about money. We have to say this very openly. It is about the fact that some municipalities have been under financial pressure and therefore send the children away earlier and also because that leads me to the last reason why we cannot support this resolution, and that is, of course, that there is no funding. We cannot ignore the fact that this costs some money and, in order to support a resolution, we also have to have the funding. That is what I wanted to say to the motion for a resolution, and I would also just like to sign that new citizens are also involved in putting it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152319	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152323	Thank you very much for that and thank you for the overall positive attitude from over here. Now there are more who mention this because there is no funding allocated. This is all about the municipalities spending their money on core welfare. They should not use them on all sorts of strange projects and a lot of journalists and djøfs and everything else. A lot of places can be cut in the municipalities on a massive scale. So this is all about them not saving the kids. It will be the case that the municipality chooses something, and then it will be translated into some educators who have to stand and say: okay, we have to get some extra crèches, because it is decided from upstairs. Who's the most ready? It may well be some children, which one would not necessarily normally have thought was ready, and therefore it is then pushed through. We want to ensure that we have both the self-determination in the institutions, that we can make the very good offer for which we have been trained, but that if there are some children who have to go to kindergarten earlier than they are three years old, then the final decision lies with the parents, because they are everything else equal, no matter how and how you turn it, those who know their child best. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152447	Yes, I certainly agree that I am the one who knows my own child best, but the educators are probably the ones who know best how he works in his kindergarten, because there I spend very little time, especially at the moment, because there I cannot even enter the playground, but that is another story. So I want to say that I think it is really important that the professionals are also involved in the assessment and have this cooperation with the parents. We now insist that there should be funding for this. We can always have a debate about whether too much money is spent in the municipalities, I do not think that in general; there we stand a little ideologically different from New Citizens. But again, we agree that yes, the parents know the children best, and the parents should be comfortable with their children starting kindergarten. I think the vast majority of people today do, but unfortunately not all. So we want to help look at some other solutions than just the way that have been worked together in the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152537	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur. I would like to welcome Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152548	Thank you. In the SF we have sympathy for the proposal, but the proposal makes it very difficult for the municipalities to plan their day offer locally, so instead of having a fixed minimum age of 3 years before children are moved to kindergarten. In fact, we already tabled a resolution on this last year. When we want children to start kindergarten only when they are 3 years old, it is because we want children to benefit from better staffing standards in day care and day care as long as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152621	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF's rapporteur, which is why I welcome Mr SF's report. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507152632	Thank you. In the proposal here, the authors of the proposals point to the major problem that more and more municipalities are bringing forward the smallest children's kindergarten. Years ago, there was an almost unambiguous, but not quite clear, because in some municipalities only day care lasted all day care, the age limit of 3 years for the transition from day care and day care to kindergarten, but over a number of years we have seen the movement, which is also reflected in the authors' comments, namely that more and more municipalities have brought down the age limit. Today it's barely every other municipality that's done it. I think it's 43%. of the children who come earlier. It is obvious to me that this is not for educational reasons, although it is often tried in such a way in a number of municipalities, but it is clearly intended to save on the municipality's day-off costs. When we look at the individual municipalities, we can see that most of them are 1-2 months before the age of three, but there are also some who start 3 or 4 months before. I remember that a few years ago Brøndby was as low as 2 years and 6 months, because that was what lived best through financially. It is very important that we put an end to this. Generally speaking, the amount allocated to the institutions by the municipalities is certainly the case that the children who are in the crèche are given twice as much money as the children who are in the nursery age, and that is how you make quite massive savings, because you do not just move the age limit, but also the financial allocation. This means that this manoeuvre actually affects the standards and the quality of the institutions, and that is why I understand the proposals put forward by the authors of the motion for a resolution. That is the way to put an end to this deterioration in quality. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the proposal, as it stands, will not be able to support, but we would point out instead that a minimum age limit is being set for the transition. How exactly it should be determined, I think, is a matter of negotiation. I do not think we should legislate on what we do in the many 0-5-year-old institutions, where the kids are both in the crèche age and in kindergarten age, because it would be strange if we legislators were to interfere in whether the child could move from blue to red when the child was 2 years and 11 months old, if the child now had a good buddy, as it was thought it was wise that the child should be accompanied, but where there is a divided day-offer structure, I think we should have a clear 3-year limit. If we do not have that limit, and that is where my concern may be in relation to New Citizens' proposals, we risk using the early start of kindergarten to reduce the standards and to increase the workload for teaching staff in all the offers, and at the same time there is also something about the quality of teaching work. It is incredibly important that daily offers can work with an age-matching pedagogy, and therefore I do not think it would be fair to say that parents should be able to wonder how many would do so. But I think it would be unwise to say that parents should be able to choose. If I think my two-year-old child belongs better in a kindergarten, I can choose it, even if the child is still wearing a diaper, must sleep for dinner and, moreover, will have difficulty in entering into the same educational offer as the slightly larger kids. So that would be my concern. The short one is that we think that the proposers address a really important problem, and it is very good that it is addressed. We think it would be very sensible for us to legislate on the basis of the financial agreement that was made last autumn, when we have to regulate and make statutory standards on standards, that this is included, and then we would very much like to see such a minimum age set for the move from one offer to another. However, to emphasise this, I would like to say that it should not be a detailed piece of legislation which prevents flexible working in the institutions of the 0-5 years, based on a knowledge of the individual child and an educational, professional assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153128	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur and welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153138	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the new citizens for putting forward this resolution, which I am sure there is a very good intention behind it. If we cannot support it, it is because it violates the principle that there must be an educational professional judgement behind it. After all, it is the educators who have the daily contact with the children and know how they work socially with other children during their daily lives. It must, of course, be the case that a transfer must also take place in dialogue with the parents and, of course, it must be based on the best interests of the child. In addition, it also breaks with the municipal autonomy, where the municipalities have the opportunity to adapt to the local conditions in the individual municipality. Nor are we in favour of going in and doing something that violates local self-government. Finally, I do not see any economic calculation for this, too, for where funding is supposed to come from to this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153254	You're welcome. There are no brief comments so we can go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153302	Thank you for the floor. I have also been confused with this proposal and a little for the same reasons that many other rapporteurs have indicated, because what I do not really see from the proposal is, for example, what we are talking about here. the extent of the problem to be solved. I simply miss some reflection on the number of children moved from crèche to kindergarten against parents' wishes and where a friendly solution cannot be found. Because I fully agree with Mrs Krarup and others who say that the best thing is, of course, that you can find some kind of friendly solution, and I think you can do that in many cases. In fact, I do not have an overview of an issue that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj raised the key between integrated institutions and non-integrated institutions. Because it makes a pretty big difference whether we are talking about integrated or non-integrated institutions, and there I agree that if there is a child who may be 2 years and 10 months and works well with a group of comrades, then it is wrong to separate them. I don't think you should be too inflexible there. But anyway, I miss some more detailed analyses of course not necessarily with scientific accuracy, but just over the entire lengths of clogs, as they say. The second question is: what does it mean to be uprooted too soon? It is true, as many have said, that today there is a requirement that it should be equal to the age and that you should be able to keep up with age and that you should be able to be included in the offer in kindergarten. And there is, after all, a lower limit on when a child who goes to a crèche can enter into meaningfully with children who go to kindergarten. You cannot go to kindergarten unless you have language and motor skills and social skills developed at some reasonable level, otherwise you cannot fit in with the activities that are going on there. So I have a little difficulty understanding the need to implement this proposal. I also agree that we do not really get any idea of the funding of the proposal. In other words, although you can criticize the municipalities for having a lot of bureaucracy and so on, I can vividly imagine that just on the basis of the little I have worked with the municipalities that in the real world you will be met by a municipality that says dut, i.e. the expanded total balance principle, and that you have to get rid of some money there. This is how the municipalities usually behave when they approach us here at Christiansborg. But, of course, in relation to the issue of funding, it also has something to do with the fact that there is not really a fundamental analysis of the need to put forward the proposal. The last thing I want to say is that I also agree with the rapporteurs who have said that we must also be careful not to water down local self-government. It is therefore important that municipalities can organise their offers without being over-controlled here from Slotsholmen, because the municipalities are different and they have different approaches, and there are a lot of local conditions. Of course, it is an unsympathetic idea if the municipalities do pure austerity exercises and place children too small in kindergarten, but as I said, I do not know how big the problem actually is. So we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. But thank you for the debate, which, as always, was good.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153710	Thank you. Then we have come to the point where the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507153720	Thank you so much. I would like to start by thanking many of you who have made some positive statements about at least the intention of this proposal. I also need to correct some misunderstandings, because this in no way prevents you from having a really good dialogue and good cooperation with the professionals who are in the institution where your child is. It is simply a question of the parents and only the parents deciding whether the child should go on, and we think that this is quite a healthy principle. Moreover, we think so in a great many areas, because in general we want the Danes to decide much more for themselves and also for much more of their own money. But thank you for the debate. For many children, kindergarten will open an exciting and big world full of adventures and opportunities, but unfortunately in recent years there has been a really boring trend. In Denmark there are some municipalities which, as part of a saving exercise, press day nurseries in kindergarten before they reach 3 years of age. Here the standards are lower, it is cheaper. It is therefore twice as expensive to have a child in a crèche as it is to have a child in kindergarten, and the child's best interests should not be neglected in favour of the municipality's finances. Today, 48 of the country's municipalities allow children to start kindergarten before their 3-year birthday. It is even against experts' recommendations and it is a quadruple since 2008. This happens sometimes or often without the consent of the parents, and before the child is actually ready for it, and it is not okay. We know that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are crucial for the child's development and well-being, both now and in the future. It is all the central aspects of the foundation of life that are founded for the first 0-3 years, and that is why we in New Citizens have proposed that it be parents who decide whether their child should start in kindergarten early. I don't want it to be the municipality's excelark. We want to ensure that it is the parents who decide and have the last word as to whether their child should start in kindergarten before the child reaches the age of 3. It is so different from child to child when the child is ready to go to kindergarten, and we do not believe that municipalities should transform our institutions into sausage factories where the smallest should be squeezed through as soon as possible. We want to get away from the logic of the spreadsheet and let the parents make the decisions that we know to be so important in the early years of the child's life. It is the parents who know the child best, and therefore it is also quite natural that they alone decide. I had actually hoped that there would be far more parties supporting this proposal and that it could be adopted so that families would have more freedom to decide for themselves. I also think it is very unfortunate that there is not, but thank you for the good debate. Finally, I should also like to mention that there are several people who have been calling for examples. DR had a really good article on their website now I don't see the exact date here when you just came up with some pretty concrete examples, and I actually think they were from Albertslund Municipality, where there were some children who had already gone as 21⁄2 years old, and there had been some really, really bad experiences with it. That is, of course, what we were trying to solve, and it also happened against the wishes of the parents. So thank you for the debate. We are really sorry that there is no support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507154121	You're welcome. There are no brief comments and it does not appear that anyone wants to speak at all, either ministers or rapporteurs. I would like to propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200507154146	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 12 May 2020 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
