ParlaMint-DK_20201210103504	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210103507	The case listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210103518	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210103544	Thank you. I think that somewhere in relation to the proposal we have today, it is characteristic of the way in which we have organized our society, in other words the positive part of it, that in a time of crisis that we are experiencing here, we are taking account of those people who are in danger of being hit by redundancies, the closure of jobs. That's one part of it. But the second part is that we are also taking into account those companies which, in this time of crisis, are, of course, very hard hit on their production and on what they are now dealing with. The fact that we are somehow able to take account of both sides is for me to see some of the uniqueness of the way in which we have organized society. There is no doubt that this is not a new proposal, but an extension of a system that has been in the past. That is because the system of division of labour is running out, and that means that we have to deal with what will happen then, because unfortunately this corona crisis is not over yet. Therefore, it makes good sense to ensure and ensure that we extend this arrangement. We are extending the scheme with some additional options here. On the part of the Social Democrats, we should strongly recommend that we adopt this legislation, which is good for the companies that are hard hit and which are good for the employees who would otherwise be at risk of getting a light-off note. So much support from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210103738	Thank you. And there are no brief comments. That is why we now move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210103749	Thank you for the floor. I do not think most people had anticipated that in December we would be almost a year after the coronavirus's onset in Denmark, still being so badly affected, both economically and not least in terms of health. The consequences have been many and serious. This temporary arrangement must provide companies that are still challenged by the Corona crisis with tools to avoid redundancies. The bill translates parts of the tripartite agreement that will give companies greater flexibility. This is something that is clearly needed in all companies, since we are still in a serious crisis. Exceptional times require exceptional actions and it is just time to clarify it. That is why the Left supports this tripartite agreement. The last time we were standing here, I told you how puzzled I was by the government's actions or lack of the same. At that time, when we were discussing the latest tripartite agreement on the division of labour, there were not many proposals that could contribute to increased growth and employment. And I can't see them this time either. But let it be said straight away: the Left is ready to take action and we support the tripartite agreement that has been made here. If the Social Democrat rapporteur then says that in these times we have set up our society in a way, what should we say where we should look at it, that we should take the positive parts of it with us, and when the Social Democrat rapporteur has also mentioned companies that are really badly affected, then we will of course stand here and be astonished that the extra flexibility that has been introduced into this agreement only includes companies with a national agreement. The possibility to agree with your employees that you are going down for a period of time and working only 20%. 30 per cent should then apply only to companies which have a national agreement. In the tripartite agreement made back in August, no distinction was made between whether or not the company was subject to a national agreement. That step has now been taken. We believe that this is extremely critical; we do not think that it is a matter of socialism. We believe that we need to help all companies, all employees, to get through this crisis in the best possible way, and that is why we want to put forward an amendment to the draft law that makes this tripartite agreement, like the previous tripartite agreement on the division of labour, apply to all and you can look at the many industries that are hard hit at the moment: the catering industry, the hotel industry, the travel industry. We get inquiries where they say: Why should it be only certain industries, certain companies, that should be given the option of flexibility; why should I not be able as a business owner to secure my employees and help my employees in the best way possible? The alternative is a bankruptcy. Yeah, that's a good question. And that is why I and the Left think we should table an amendment that makes this law even better so that it can accommodate all employees and all companies. So we have to work on this, albeit at speed, because we are concerned that this will be adopted as soon as possible. That is why we have also agreed to have an urgent debate on the legislative proposal; that is why we are dealing first with today and having second and third readings on Tuesday. We can make sure of that. That is what this corona crisis has shown: we can stand together as a Parliament, and that is why I think we should stand together on this matter and ensure that we do not discriminate between employees and companies. That is all, far too serious for it. Those were supposed to be the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104232	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104235	This bill is based on an agreement between parties that has a hinterland. In other words, employers have legitimacy through their organisations because they actually have members, and the same goes for employees. The reason why you spend any time negotiating with them is that they have legitimacy because they actually represent a hinterland. And it is they who have agreements where you can actually regulate such things that make this agreement. So isn't it natural that you build on it? And could Mr. Hans Andersen tells me if there's anything that prevents these companies that apparently have been in contact with Mr. Hans Andersen, in being included in this arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104319	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104322	As I read it, only the parties to the agreement can choose to include companies in this division of labour. And I cannot understand why some 350,000 private employees should not, as a rule, be included. We do not support that. Then you can ask why. The August agreement on division of labour did not make that distinction, but now it is, and we do not like it. We think this should be done in such a way that we help all companies and all employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104410	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104411	I understand the answer given by Mr. Hans Andersen that there is nothing to prevent them from being included. They can just join an employer's organization. What's the problem? So, sir. Hans Andersen thus confirmed in his reply that there are no obstacles to these companies being included. To this day they can join an employer's organization or draw up an agreement linking them to national agreements. So there are no obstacles. Why don't you just do it? It is, moreover, to show responsibility in this situation that you both give and take. So it requires membership or an agreement. I guess it's no wonder it's the organizations that made the deal. Furthermore, on the same occasion they could also show the social spirit that they supported the organisations that carry the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104446	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104450	I have great respect for the social partners. I just find it difficult from the platform to support the fact that we spend 500 million from our common fund. kr. to support this tripartite agreement. After all, it is tax dollars that are also paid for by the 350,000 private employees who are working their way out there and are currently at risk of getting a bill. The premise put forward by the rapporteur that they can simply join and then everything is good, we do not want to put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104520	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104522	I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has the same interpretation as me, namely that it is the employer who can decide whether or not a division of labour should take place. I think I heard that it was an agreement between the parties and something like that that had to decide whether a division of labour could be achieved. But is it not true, as has been said, that it is the employer who can decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104545	I am sorry if I have expressed myself unclearly there. I am in complete agreement with Mrs Jette Gottlieb on this. It is the employer who can ultimately set up such a division of labour. That is what has been in the previous agreement, and that is what this agreement is all about. We are just of the opinion that we think it should include everyone and not just some specific groups in our labour market, because everyone needs flexibility. We need to make sure that as many people as possible get through this crisis with the job intact and the company standing on both legs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104622	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104623	But isn't the consequence of the view that if an employee doesn't want to participate in a division of labour, that's the same as asking for a note? And is it not the case that when there is a question of fairness in the legislation here when it comes to creating a division of labour, it is also a question of how it can be dealt with in a professional way? And does it not require membership of the organisations, as it does on the working side?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104651	I believe that it is basically a question of whether we should help companies and employees through this crisis, whether or not they are members of a particular professional organisation. That is why we want to make an amendment to the draft law, which means that it is all, and not just certain groups, that are being helped here. We would like the whole parliament to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104719	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104739	Thank you for that, President. This is a natural consequence of the situation we are in, because there are a great many restrictions on the labour market. There are a lot of companies that are affected by restrictions, and with the latest restrictions that apply to the Copenhagen area • the metropolitan area • Zealand and Aarhus, where this causes some problems, it is of course natural to look at how to ensure that companies can continue. But that is true throughout the country, because it is also often a problem for them to get theirs. There is a good element in the division of labour, which is why we naturally support the extension of the previous system in this respect. Having said that, I would also like to say that the Danish People's Party agrees with the rapporteur of the Left that there is a problem with the 350,000 private employees who are not covered. Many of the companies in the Copenhagen area are affected by this problem. It is also service companies that are affected by the problem and where you cannot just put them on the division of labour and benefit from this proposal. That is why the Danish People's Party supports the inclusion of an amendment, and I hope, of course, that the Minister himself will table an amendment, because it may be an oversight that it has not been made in exactly the same way as in the previous scheme and, of course, there must also be the possibility that something might have been forgotten about it. The Danish People's Party supports the bill, but we also support an amendment such as that, Mr President. Hans Andersen has explained in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104943	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210104957	Thank you. There is still a need for flexibility in the labour market as a result of the health crisis and the corona crisis, and division of labour is precisely the expression of this flexibility. In the Radical Left, we also support the tripartite agreement. However, as previous rapporteurs have mentioned, we in the Radical Left also have a concern that the extension of the division of labour does not include everyone, as it has done so far. So we support what the rapporteur of the Left has said about bringing an amendment into play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105039	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, which is why Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105047	In times of crisis, we must reach out to each other in order to get through together. And again we see the strength of a labour market where employees are gathered in trade unions and employers in their organisations. It is being given and it is being taken in favour of all parties. And precisely the link with professional organizations and thus also the trade union system provides rights. It gives employers the right to be able to make various adjustments to their activities, and it gives employees the right, if they disagree with it, to be able to bring them to professional treatment. The fact that we are linking ourselves to the long traditions we have in the labour market, about negotiation and about conflict resolution gives us clear lines, and that gives us clear rules of the game. And then it is in this situation, as in all sorts of others, that if you do not want to pay to society, there are some rights you do not get; if you do not want to pay to your professional organization, there are also things that disappear. It's kind of like this, you really want to take part in a Christmas party, even though it's a little utopian today, of course, to take part in such things at all, but you remember before, don't you? But when you had to pay, you sneaked right behind the others and walked out the door without delivering to the common box. It's very charming for some people to get through that way, but it doesn't last. It does not hold up for the professional system, it does not hold up for our labour market, if you are on a free rider, on a free ticket for Christmas lunches or to gain rights without helping to strengthen the community. What exactly in this situation gives us a tremendous strength as a society is that we can deal with such things together, including having strong social partners on both sides. That is why this law will apply to all those who will contribute, and there is nothing to prevent those companies who are complaining today that they cannot be included because they happen to have chosen not to be a member of an employers' organisation from being able to do so electronically. You can go to a website this afternoon and join an employer's organization and it's done. I am sure that this can be done electronically by all employers' organisations in Denmark, and they are covered. What argument should hold them back? On the contrary, it is now becoming very visible to all: the strength of an organised, regulated and civilised labour market. The strength is so clear to all of us that even the slowest employer out there must be able to see the benefit of being covered by the scheme in a regulated way, so that if doubts arise afterwards, it can also be dealt with in a professional manner. SF supports this bill, which is based on a tripartite agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105352	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105355	Thank you. Well, I'm really glad that Mr. Karsten Hønge says it applies to everyone. Then it must also apply to the 350,000-400,000 employees who, after all, pay taxes and who are helping to finance this. This isn't union policy. If we had not had the corona crisis, I would have agreed with Mr. Karsten Hønge. This is an extraordinary situation that has not been created by competition in the labour market, but it has come from outside with the corona disease, and this makes their goods unfortunately impossible to sell. The government has told us that we have to keep closed in many places because we are dropping down. Is this not the wrong time to pursue trade union policy? Shouldn't you keep it out and concentrate on what is happening here during the corona crisis? Because it's extraordinary. And the 350,000-400,000 employees, as Mr. Karsten Hønge doesn't give a damn about financing everything here in Denmark. You're also helping to finance our salary, but sir... Karsten Hønge doesn't care about 350,000-400,000 employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105459	Sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105501	It is so far-fetched that I am simply wondering whether I am going to answer it at all. There are no 300,000 employees who are indifferent to me at all. I've never heard anything like it. On the contrary, I think that they should be better protected by their employers looking tomorrow for an agreement either by joining an employers' organisation or by contacting the local trade union in order to get an accession agreement. It can be done this afternoon. I'm just as worried about you as Mr. Bent Bøgsted. I would never accuse Mr. Bent Bøgsted for not worrying about 350,000 employees. The thing here is, it's not about trade union policy. It is about the fact that, in the last more than six months, we have seen what enormous strength lies in the fact that we can make solid, long-lasting agreements. We can only do this because we have organisations that have legitimacy in the hinterland. Otherwise, these appointments wouldn't matter. They only last because the trade unions actually have members and because the employers' organisations actually have members. That is why credible agreements can be made. So when the state goes in and makes tripartite agreements with these two, I think it's natural that they should be included. Anyone can do it from this afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105608	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105609	Sir. Karsten Hønge has the full right to have his own opinions, just as I have the right to have my opinions. This is just not a question of who's part of a union and who's not part of a union. It is a question of whether these employees are employed in a company that is going to close and whether they are being made redundant because they cannot be assigned to work. That's what's going to happen here if they can't get a share in this division of labour, and those are the employees that Mr. Karsten Hønge doesn't care. And then, sir... Karsten Hønge, of course, has his views on what he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105642	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105644	I am also particularly concerned about their legal position, i.e. those employees who are in this type of company. They will not be granted any rights if the employer simply imposes a division of labour and it is not possible for the employee to bring it to professional treatment. I am very concerned about their legal position and it will only be taken care of if we attach it here to agreements which offer professional treatment. It is precisely the rights of employees that we are talking about here, namely by linking them to collective agreements. That's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105716	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105719	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that this agreement is better than the last agreement that was made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105727	Yeah, I think I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105731	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105733	Thank you. That is what I would like to ask. For this agreement excludes 350,000-400,000 workers unless they do what the socialists would like them to do, and we can then hear that it is a better agreement that there are 350,000-400,000 who are not covered by it here. So thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105751	The question made no sense, as far as I could hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105754	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210105804	This bill has been put forward in a critical situation, and it must also be said that it has probably been a little difficult for most people to read the details of it. Then, of course, it helps that it is an extension of an existing system, but there are a number of sharpenings in it. If it is translated into ordinary Danish language, it means that, at very short notice, working time can be reduced from 37 hours to 7.4 hours per week for the employees you have. There has been agreement in the tripartite negotiations that this may be necessary in certain sectors. That is why it is also good that a provision has been made which says that such a glaring thing can only be done if there is a comprehensive national organization agreement on it. So far, so good. Then there are quite a few things that I also criticised in the previous agreement, namely that there is, for example, one of them. For non-members, you can be sent to work 1 hour a day. There is no protection against this, which means that the 7.4 hours to which you can be put may be seven days a week. This is not appropriate, nor is it usually objective. That is why it is extremely important to me that all these matters can be dealt with in a professional way. That is why it is crucial that it looks as it does. Then I have the concern that until now it has been a very temporary law that we imagined would apply until Christmas. Now it turns out that it is necessary to make an extension law that applies for a whole year. In this context, it becomes somewhat more critical to intervene in this way against normal contractual agreements and also agreements already concluded. That's part of the problem. That is why I think, for example, and I would like to ask a question about the fact that it is a problem that, at 24 hours' notice, you can be reduced in time. If you get the message on a Friday afternoon, you are reduced from Monday morning to 7.4 hours a week. Those are the technicalities which help to undermine the contractual agreements concluded in better time and with much better processing between the parties. I think it is very important to respect them. That is why I have some questions that I will have time to ask in this very short 24 hours which we have to be able to do, and I hope that they will be able to enjoy the promotion in different ways. However, in order not to cast doubt on it: the Enhedslisten supports the proposal in the emergency we are facing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110038	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110052	An agreement has been reached on the division of labour. In some areas, the latest agreement was good, but in other areas it struck alongside those who really needed it. For if you shut down a company and do so during the time a company can have open, then division of work will not be the appropriate tool to use because you have a shorter working time where you must have earned your turnover. There you need all people to be at work. So there are some gaps in it, and that is also why we have not taken a final position on whether we think this one is good enough for us to vote in favour of it. I would say that we support the amendment tabled by the Left. And I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they also support the amendment and that they can also support the proposal itself. I understand that this agreement has been reached and that it does not include them. That is fair enough if the social partners think so. But this is the Folketing, and in here we are responsible for all Danes, and we are responsible for helping all Danes, and we must take that responsibility on our part. So you can respect an agreement that is there and say: I understand that, that is, you have sat down and made the deal that you have made. We respect that, that's fair enough. Now we're adding something, because from here we think that's the right thing and the necessary thing to do to help the Danes who are in this situation. I think it is critical to move from politics to dealing with a crisis to politics in a crisis, and we will not be involved in that in New Citizens. All Danes must be helped here. We're all in this together. The Danes also pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110225	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110232	When you make what you call a tripartite agreement, it is sometimes spiced up with such messages that when the government and employers' organisations and employees' organisations agree on this, then the Folketing cannot really afford not to want it. It is therefore necessary to state here that none of the three organisations have the money. Those who have the money for such an agreement here are the Folketing. The government has no money, the employers have no money for this, the employees have no money for this. It is the Danish Parliament which, with this law, is to grant 0.5 billion. kr. to what the three parties have agreed. It is clear that when you make an agreement without those who have to pay the bill, you lack a substantial party, and that is why you cannot of course say that this Parliament will have to do, because we have agreed on this. No, you made a deal with someone who didn't have any money, and now you expect the Folketing to finance it. That's not how the piano plays. So we do not need to vote in favour of this and I would argue why we should not do so. We also voted against the last time this was up and running, and of course we also do not want to extend the scheme, which suffers from the fact that it is a broad system that covers all companies in Denmark. Whether they are affected by the corona crisis or not, they can use this model, and that is not a good way to conduct labour market policy. This is not a good way of pursuing economic policy. When you have a company, contrary to what many socialists often say, there is solidarity between the employer, the owner and the employees. It's natural. The employees provide more than is required of them for the company, and the company often provides more than is required of the company for the employees. It is very good that such tapes arise out there, which are not contractual, but are based on the fact that you have known each other for many years and that you have given it an extra shell for each other. This also means that if at some point a company gets into a situation where the crisis is scratching it may be corona, but it may also be anything else; it is often the case that the crisis is scratching with private companies, then there is an unwillingness on the part of the employer to take the necessary decisions to reduce the workforce. That is something that must happen at some point if it is a permanent crisis, but there is that emotional unwillingness to do so, and that is also fine. It is good that there is that solidarity out there. But the emotional resentment is not one to be financed by the Danish state. We are not going to have to do this on the Danish side by 0.5 billion. kr. encourage the failure to make the adjustments which may be necessary in companies which are subject to a more permanent reduction in orders for the company's goods. This system prevents the conversion of companies where conversion is necessary, and so it does so with state money, ultimately taxpayers' money, and we do not think this is a good idea. If it had been a system that was directly targeted industries that have been forced out of control by the government and parliament's corona policy, we would have looked at it quite differently, but because it is a broad system that destroys the good mechanisms that are out there in society, that you change things when things change, we cannot vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210110645	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteurs for their comments on the proposal and also to my initial thanks for the general support for the urgency of the legislative proposal, as there has been from the parties. I would just like to say as an introduction, before I turn to some of the issues raised about the nature of this draft law, that this is, of course, the implementation of the tripartite agreement on the extension of the temporary work-sharing arrangement concluded between the government and the social partners on 27 November. After all, the scheme allows companies to establish work distributions instead of dismissing employees if they experience a decrease in production or turnover. The working time of the employees can be reduced, where the employee can instead receive the daily allowance at an increased rate. The draft law extends the possibility for companies to apply the temporary work-sharing system throughout 2021, a desire which has been very much expressed by employers. It has also been important for the government to make a long extension in order to give companies a clear framework and to maintain as many jobs as possible. We can see that the temporary work-sharing system is basically a success. The most recent figures indicate that there are more than 8,000 people in the scheme in its present form. When we look at who is in the scheme, it is especially employees within e.g. air transport, hotels, restaurants and experience economy, just as there are some export companies. We can also see that, among other things. is in the metropolitan area, the scheme is being used very much. It is also where we have some of the industries that are hardest hit by the corona crisis. At the same time, it is part of the tripartite agreement, and thus the draft law, that the scheme in a number of areas is adapted and improved to take account of the challenges faced by companies, employees and cashiers. Among other things: will give companies more flexibility to use the scheme in order to avoid redundancies. This is done by allowing national employers' and employees' organizations to agree that companies in the field of collective agreements in question must reduce working time by up to 80%. rather than the current maximum 50 per cent. It has been a great wish from among others. employers' and employees' organisations in the hotel and catering sector. But it is also something that can be used in other sectors if there is agreement between the social partners in this area. I have been reminded that there may be a problem of the period of earning of persons in a temporary division of labour which may have an impact on the entitlement to unemployment benefit once the division of labour has been completed. I have therefore written to both FH and DA to ask whether they can support a change in the rules in that area so that no one gets stuck here. If there is agreement on a change of rules, I shall also table an amendment to that effect as soon as possible. What I think is crucial in relation to the fallen remarks is that there are a few, I do not know whether I would call it misunderstandings, but at least the points of discussion that have taken place so far. An amendment has been notified which would allow all companies to set the working time up to 80% without prior agreement. I think we should be aware that, when it has been agreed both in the system then and in this system, it is generally 50 per cent. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Karsten Hønge mentioned, established a unilateral right for employers to initiate a division of labour. As the existing division of labour is today in the agreements, it is the case that this is something that must be agreed between the parties. With the bill that expires here per year. 31 December on the extension, it is a one-sided right for an employer to do so over the head of his employees, which means that employees in the company are deprived of rights and, in particular, employees are deprived of rights which they enjoy in the civil service law. An essential precondition for getting officials to give this one-sided right to employers has been that the reduced working time could be set at a maximum of 50 per cent, and if an amendment is proposed in the Folketing which makes it generally applicable, without prior agreement among national organizations, to turn it up to 80%, then the basic condition for employees to have supported this agreement is that they agree to give employers a one-sided right which overrides the rights which they already have in the civil service law. I believe that this is the first thing to be made clear, and on that basis, the amendment is, after all, what to call it a potentially undermining element of the whole system of work distribution. So I think we should consider that. Then there's the other one, and it's for Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen's remarks, and I respect the views of the Liberal Alliance. I think that they are very fundamental and therefore also relate to them, but there is something that needs to be made clear here, where the division of labour, I think, plays a very, very important role in the current situation. For example, if you think of the aviation industry, it is not forced to shut down, but it is marked by the global pandemic that is currently in place and has some difficult prospects of getting completely into gear, even after the vaccine starts to be shot in the arms of people, and it is an industry that already very much uses the work-sharing system and wants to continue to use the work-sharing system. This applies to SAS, it applies to a large number of other airlines, it applies to Copenhagen Airports A/S and so on, and this is all because of course they expect that capacity will rise again and thus want to be able to call people back to work as soon as possible and avoid wasting resources on time-consuming and costly training of new employees. I think it is a good investment to give an industry like that and, incidentally, all other industries as a tool in the toolbox while minimising the number of redundancies. What we can say here is that we are basically giving companies, which is the very big contribution, is a one-sided right to speed up the division of labour. That seems to me to be part of the debate, and on that basis I also think that consideration should be given to whether to risk the whole system of the proposed amendment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111350	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111354	Thank you. Now it is a matter of urgency that we are dealing with, so I would like to hear whether the Minister can confirm that this agreement includes a large number of staff who are not covered but were covered by the previous agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111411	No, what is true is that there will be a large number of employees for whom it may not be possible to screw the work distribution up to 80%. In other words, what we have said is that two organisations can come hand in hand and say: we actually agree that in our area we can reduce working hours even more than from the 50% that applies to everyone in the law to 80%. And it is actually the case that the hotel and catering industry has come with each other in hand and said: we have a mutual desire for that, even if it depends on temperament, it will put many employees at a disadvantage, at a time when they will only be paid 20 per cent. of their working hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111500	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111501	Okay, so what the Socialists have just said from the platform, that it's okay that they can't do it, but that if they eat the forest snail, they can join the club and get a share in this, isn't it? Because that's what they say.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111514	In other words, we are introducing this system by law, and what has then been agreed is that you can turn up the time you are on division of labour if two national organisations agree on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111527	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111528	The Minister for Employment sees things from, for example. an airport perspective saying that it would be a waste of resources at the airport if, under the impression that there is a sharp decline in aviation at the moment, employees were to be dismissed and then hired again when the need is there. It would be a huge waste of resources for the airport, says the Minister for Employment. But for society, this is a huge waste of resources. In other words, these employees could find other jobs for a period of time, for example. In occupations where there is a shortage of labour at the present time, let us take up the craft trades; we could help out on a construction site as a bricklayer or otherwise help out there. You do not do so, and in those months you are sitting at home instead of with pay and state aid, and that is a waste of resources. There is a labour force that is not being exploited. You could work temporarily somewhere else and then return to the airport afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111634	Well, there are indeed very, very many, among others. in the aviation industry, but also in other sectors that have lost their jobs and have not gone down in working hours. For many of these people it has been made possible to get an education boost, among other things. In the craft sector, however, they do have an economic incentive, as I know, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen is engaged in, to take on a skilled education. So there are good opportunities for them. When it is important in many sectors that you can distribute work in relation to the work you have, it is of course also from the expectation that within hopefully a short time you will be able to re-up capacity and very quickly turn up capacity. It should be borne in mind that for the individual employee it is always a choice whether you would rather say no to joining the division of work and thus consider yourself dismissed if you do not like having to spend either 50 or 80 per cent. of his working time on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111736	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111737	Well, that doesn't change the fact that what happens to this scheme is that there are some people who have to stay in the company at a reduced time, where, if you didn't have this scheme, they would be out to find other jobs, possibly temporarily, possibly permanently. Now this has been going on since March, and it may be that the airport is still hit by a decline in March next year, and then it will be a year, it has been going on where instead of finding other jobs while there was no work at the airport, you have worked very little and partly with money from the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111816	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111817	To be quite honest: I regard it on an equal footing with the companies that have expressed a desire to set it off as a good investment; that is, that one has the opportunity to distribute the work that is now, between the employees who are left in the company, after you have turned down the capacity of the company sharply; that one will have the opportunity to turn up quickly in a number of industries, when vaccines hopefully get shot in the arms of people around the world shortly or when restrictions are lifted. I regard it as a good and adaptable investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111854	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210111855	Thank you. I think it would perhaps be useful if the Minister could now explain or explain how this is connected, i.e. who is covered and who is not covered. Because in the example, where the employer is not covered by an agreement but the employees are in an insurance fund, the question is whether they can benefit from the division of labour. Or what are the conditions for, for example. a restaurant that is part of HORESTA, but where employees are not part of a national agreement, but they are well enough in an insurance fund to which they pay? In other words, I think it might be useful for the Minister to provide an explanation for the different situations that may exist, because it is not everywhere where employees and employers are involved in an agreement. There's also the thing about whether they, if they're in Krifa or they're in the Professional House, but the employer doesn't have an agreement, can benefit from it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112008	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112009	Yes, they can benefit from it, and in the existing system, i.e. in the present system, up to 50%. of working time. What we have then established, and that is because we are introducing it by law, is that it is a valid right for all employers to be able unilaterally to set up a division of labour. As the rules normally are, before we set up a temporary system of division of labour, it is something that has been agreed exclusively in the collective agreements, and that means that in those jobs there is no way to set off work distributions either. Then, by law, we have said that now there is a unilateral right from the employer to be able to speed up the division of labour, and this can be done in up to 50%. of working time. And then, with the new agreement, we have said that if we then agree on two national organisations in one area, we can turn it up to 80%, that is to say, we can have increased access, thereby further undermining working hours. However, this requires that the two national organisations agree on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112108	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112109	It might take a little explanation. Is it to be understood that the previous system, where it was 50 per cent, still applies to everyone, but that the 80 per cent. is only applicable where both parties are party to a national agreement? Is that how it should be understood, or how and how? Otherwise, I think it's gonna be necessary to get a little in writing about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112133	We are very happy to send over in writing what is applicable to all employers and what is the case in the organizational agreements where you can turn it up to 80%. But just to give an example: at this stage HORESTA has already entered into an agreement with 3F Private Service, Hotel and Restauration that in their field of contract, flexibility can be increased up to 80%.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112205	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112221	The debate is open. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112242	First of all, many thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution for the opportunity to discuss agriculture, ecology and climate. These are issues that both I and the government are very concerned about. This is very central to government policy. With this motion for a resolution, B-75, new citizens will oblige the government to put forward the necessary legislative proposals and make the necessary changes to administrative regulations so that no subsidies are granted to organic farming in the future. New citizens wrongly base the proposal that organic farming is no better for the climate than conventional agriculture. That is why New Citizens are proposing to stop subsidising organic production methods, which they believe are burdening more than conventional production methods. With reference to an article in the journal Nature, New Citizens argues that it cannot be demonstrated that organic farming leads to lower Danish CO2 On the contrary, CO2 The Government cannot support this resolution, and so there are several reasons for this, among others. the fact that there are many reasons for ecology other than the climate environment, groundwater, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112425	I'm sorry, Minister, but there's a very loud speech in the Chamber at the moment. I fully understand that things need to be discussed, but the pressure of speech is too high right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112434	It's this topic that's important, so you should listen. This government has an ambitious target of 70% reduction. of greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 compared to 1990 levels. We agreed on this objective with the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten during the formation of this government. Subsequently, all parties have agreed to the objective of the negotiations on the Climate Act, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance and New Citizens. The government has also agreed with the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten that the goals of ecology should be increased. As a starting point, the ecological area, the export of ecology and the consumption of ecology by the Danes must be doubled until 2030, and we have also just seen with the Finance Act that ecology is again in focus. It is the government's view that the overall agricultural sector must become more climate-efficient, regardless of whether it produces organically or conventionally. The article in Nature, to which New Citizens refers in the motion for a resolution, is not about climate pressures from organic farming in general. One of the researchers behind the article emphasizes in the comment trail at www.nature.com that the article cannot say anything in general about organic farming, but only looks at the yield of peas and wheat in Sweden. The study cannot therefore be used to support New Citizens' statements that ecology is worse for the climate than conventional agriculture. In the Ministry of Food we are concerned that the climate effects of ecology are best identified and based on the latest knowledge. That is why we have, among other things. Following this debate, Aarhus University asked to prepare a new assessment of the climate effect per year. hectares as a result of UN guidelines. Aarhus University published the result on 15 September 2020 in the form of the report "Estimation of national climate effect for conversion to organic farming." The report has been forwarded to the Danish Parliament. Based on the area used in Denmark, the report shows that, compared to conventional production, organic production reduces emissions by 0.8 tonnes CO2 hectares by cropping, 3.6 tonnes CO2 hectares by cattle production and 3.7 tonnes CO2 hectares by pig production. Although productivity in conventional agriculture is higher than in organic farming, the report from Aarhus University shows virtually no difference in emissions from organic and conventional agricultural products per year. kilos. Against this background, the government does not believe that New Citizens are right in that emissions of greenhouse gases are increased by organic production in relation to conventional production. Organic farming also delivers on a number of other sustainability parameters in the green transition. Let me give you a few examples from Aarhus University: nitrogen leaching from organic farming to our aquatic environment is less than from conventional agriculture. Specifically, an average of 12-13 kg less nitrogen is emitted per year. hectares of agricultural land. Biodiversity is also better. It's 30 percent. more species on organic land and adjacent habitats. Animal welfare is high in organic production. Therefore, the state animal welfare labelling gives the top character of three hearts to organic pigs and chickens for fattening. Organic beef and milk gets two or three hearts. So there is better animal welfare when it is organic. So remember that when we choose ecology, it is not just because it is good for the climate too, but it is because there are a number of other parameters that are involved. We have heard about animal welfare, we have heard about biodiversity, we have heard about nitrogen leaching. So there are a number of good arguments for this environment and other things, and then we have to remember that the claim that you had to derive more CO2 The researchers who worked with it themselves do not even support it. Against this background, we in the government must reject this proposal, but we look forward to the debate. It's always useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112859	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112902	Thank you very much for your speech. I am also looking forward to the debate. What the Minister is bringing to me is a little puzzled. 'Cause I think it's pretty obvious that there's bigger CO2 doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210112922	As has just been mentioned, the researchers who have made the article in question in Nature, on which New Citizens base this motion for a resolution, are themselves saying that nothing can be said in general about organic farming. It is not the case that organic farming affects more CO2 that is my starting point. So to be on the very safe side, we in the Ministry have also asked Aarhus University to do a study, and they support this. There may well be small corners where you can say that there may be a little more. But the overall picture is what we must start from. After all, the proposal here is also about stopping all subsidies for organic farming. So it is the general debate that is essential here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113002	Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113002-2	Yeah, we could say that. I also think it is interesting to look at some of the individual areas and not just look at it in general. But there is another problem with ecology, and that is that it consumes a larger agricultural area, so if we increase organic production in Denmark and retain the same agricultural area, then we will produce less in Denmark in conventional agriculture, and it will then move abroad where they produce less efficiently than we do in Denmark. So this will not mean that there will be no reduction in CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113036-2	There are a number of qualities in organic farming. I have already mentioned nitrogen leaching, biodiversity and animal welfare, and we cannot say that it emits more in terms of climate. So it is an overall assessment, and what New Citizens are proposing with this proposal is that all support for organic farming should be stopped, and that is why we reject it. There may well be discussions about productivity and other things, but we have ongoing discussions about these things. There are many advantages to ecology, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113111	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are starting with the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113124	I would like to start this speech by thanking New Citizens for hopefully once again having a good discussion and debate on organic production in Denmark in this Chamber. When I sat and wrote what I intend to say here from Parliament's platform, the first words were: Hold on to your hat and glasses, fasten your seat belt, now New Citizens will stop for all support for organic production in Denmark. We do not think this is the way forward in social democracy. We want to strengthen the climate, we want to strengthen biodiversity, we want to strengthen animal welfare, we want to reduce nitrogen emissions and we want our environment to improve. We also want a large, strong food sector where there are many choices on the shelves, and one of those options must of course also be ecology. This is something that consumers are asking for, and it is something that is demanded abroad in relation to Danish exports, giving it a lot of tax revenue and I am quite in no doubt at all that ecology can help us achieve the great climate ambitions that we have about 70-percent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. In this Parliament I am also proud that we have a broad majority behind a new climate law. Of course, I fully respect the fact that the New Civil and Liberal Alliance is not part of the Climate Act which currently makes that when we look at the UN and we look at the large foreign assemblies, Denmark is on all lips because we stand as the world's green nation. It is an incredibly big brand, it is an incredibly great value for the kingdom of Denmark. The claims and the reasons which New Citizens have used in their resolution are also rejected by the studies requested by the Danish government, the Danish Ministry of the Environment and Food, at Aarhus University, where it actually turns out that the ecology is helping to strengthen these climate initiatives in Denmark. We think there should be ecology on the shelves. We are not prepared to say to the Danish ecologists and the farmers who have organic production that we are now going to remove the aid completely from their production. We are not ready for that, nor do we think it would be sensible, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113416	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113417	But New Citizens also believe that there should be ecology on the shelves, of course: when consumers demand it, they should have it too. We just do not believe that we should distort competition between conventional and organic farming. However, as I also mentioned to the Minister, when we talk about climate, we need to look at it globally. So the rapporteur does not agree that if we reduce our effective conventional agricultural production in Denmark, it will move abroad and then CO2 will
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113452	I agree with the rapporteur that Denmark has an agriculture which is ahead of a large number of parameters, both in relation to the ecological, but indeed also the conventional one, where it has actually been possible to reduce its CO2 emissions since 1990, which is a success story, and I really believe that the Danish food industry is strong because there are so many products on the shelves. And one of the new items that comes on the shelves or is already on the shelves, but is becoming more widespread is what we spent time discussing in this room yesterday: the plant-based. There is no doubt that if we forge while the iron is hot, Denmark can become a strong pioneer country, even when we talk plant-based foods.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113538	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113540	Well, we are not against plant-based foods either, and it does not really matter whether it is produced organicly or conventionally. It has nothing to do with ecology, unlike conventional production. Anyway, we are always talking about Denmark being a pioneer country. If we move production abroad, so that, overall, we emit more CO2, does the rapporteur also believe that the world will follow us in this area? What would happen if we turned the entire world's production into ecology?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113615-2	I think it is possible that we are going on this climate journey where we can still maintain Danish jobs in Denmark. And that's also why I welcome the fact that a broad majority in this Things is behind a climate law where we have to reduce greenhouse gases by 70%. By 2030. After all, we are going to negotiate the whole of agriculture on the other side of New Year's, and there is also the ambition of the Social Democrats that we should have a broad agreement so that there can be stability on the future framework conditions. In fact, I see that New Citizens will create instability about the framework conditions here in relation to ecology by removing aid by one blow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113653	No more brief remarks, and that is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113702	Thank you. Ecology is also a central part of the Danish food industry and the Danish food sector, and it contributes to both growth and jobs. At the same time, there is an increasing demand from consumers for organic products, and in the Left we want free choice for consumers and a large, diverse range of Danish foods, including organic ones. After all, the Left has also supported subsidies for ecology, and while we have had government responsibility, we have also helped to convert historically many hectares of agricultural land into organic farming. So in the Left we can say that we like all foods in Denmark that comply with the applicable rules we have for our food safety and food quality. Then it is the consumers who decide what to do on the plate, and there we have also seen an increase in the demand for ecology, and that, of course, is the only thing to do. Against this background, we reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which was acutely prevented, and say that they also reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113808	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113812	Well, I'm sorry to hear that. The Left is usually in favour of free and fair competition, and it is not a question of there being no ecology. It is only a question of consumers choosing. Why, then, does the rapporteur think that special subsidies should be introduced for ecology instead of just leaving it to consumers to choose the products they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113836	We like free competition, but as I have just heard in the debate with the Minister, I would therefore urge the new citizens to try to put a number of questions during the committee procedure in order to clarify the points which the Minister also highlighted, so that there will be a very clear basis on which to take a position. Nor do I believe that it is quite as square as it has been put forward in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113900	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113901	Now almost four fifths of Danish agricultural production goes for export, and conventional agriculture has to compete with export markets in Sweden, northern Germany and England etc. Does the rapporteur agree with the assumption that it requires that Danish conventional agriculture is guaranteed fair conditions of competition in relation to organic farming? So that is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210113925	Generally speaking, we in the Left, as we have also highlighted on several occasions, are in favour of good framework conditions for Danish agriculture and the food sector in order to strengthen the conditions of competition, so it is on equal terms. Now the rapporteur himself mentions other countries, and, of course, as Denmark must continue to have a large export-oriented agricultural and food sector, they must of course have good conditions of competition. However, in relation to the individual sectors of production, I would urge the rapporteur to try to ask some questions during the committee procedure and get it off, because I do not think it is quite as square as it has just been put up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114004	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114005	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. This is not the first time that we have the pleasure of discussing ecology here in Parliament. On previous occasions I thought that there was a little wool in the left's mouth when we talked about the ecological objectives. So I would just like to take this opportunity to ask whether the Left can back completely as in completely the sharp and very precise and targeted initiatives that the government intends to take in the field of ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114036-2	There is no wool in the left side of the mouth at all. I can also refer to the fact that we ourselves had the power of government. There we were also at the forefront of creating the basis for greater organic production. We are still backing this up so that it is the consumers who decide what to do on the plates and the more consumers want to get ecology on the plates, the more it is a great thing that more producers have taken it in and produced it. So there's no wool in the mouth from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114106	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114107	One is, of course, what consumers want, but that is not what I am asking here. It is clear that we have also had to push this development politically. And what my question is about is that there are some very strong ambitions in the understanding paper that is for this government that many parties in this Parliament support around, and there I just want to ask quietly: are the objectives that the Left fully shares? A clear answer from the Left is called for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114136-2	Well, as I have already indicated, since we had the power of government ourselves, we also went in and gave extra subsidies which could serve to increase organic production, that is to say, to a change from one type of production to an organic one. The same is true of the current government. So we're quite clear on that. And it is the consumers who decide what to do on the plates, and the more they want to get ecology on the plates, the better the possibilities for that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114200	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114201	The rapporteur now attaches importance to the fact that it is the consumer who must, as it were, determine developments. I don't think it's that clear. I also think that we can make some political demands if, for example, we are going to be able to do so. want an aquatic environment without pesticides if we want to protect our groundwater if we want a richer biodiversity. And that is what we are trying to do through various measures, including the financial agreement that has just been concluded. So it is quite natural to try to promote ecology. So I also think that, as a political party, one can afford to have views on this and that it is possible, in a purely professional way, to put the emphasis on what the farmers want. There I have to acknowledge that the previous government was actually fair because there were many farmers who wanted to convert to ecology. That's where money was found for the restructuring aid. I would like to point out that although the Left says that it is the consumer who has to decide, one was actually in a situation where it was recognised that some farmers wanted to change. It helped the Left in the way it did, so full recognition of the good action. It was not only bad things the Left Government did in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114309	Thanks for the receipt for that. In our opinion, it is ultimately consumers who decide what to do on the plate, and there we have seen, just as we have already debated, that consumers increasingly embrace ecology and want more of it, and the framework conditions must, of course, be there. That is exactly the way we have turned it in the debate right now, and that is quite good. After all, there are more producers and farmers who take it in and want to do it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114336	Then we can thank Mr. Erling Bonnesen and move on in the debate to Mrs Lise Bech, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114342	This proposal is justified by the fact that organic farming has been regarded as a sustainable production method that can help achieve the goal of reducing Danish CO2 I do not agree that this is what has been the reason for organic farming for years. On the other hand, the justification has often been increased animal welfare. Organic animals get more daylight and fresh air and have more space. Another reason has been that organic farming uses few pesticides and therefore rarely has pesticide residues. Pesticide residues are also very rare in conventional agriculture, because the use of legal pesticides in Denmark is so well regulated that they pose no health risk. However, the resolution also states that it is in the interests of promoting free competition so that conventional and organic farming is treated in the same way and given the same competitive conditions. I agree with that as a starting point. It must be demand that controls supply and, as it is today, the demand for ecology increases year by year. That's the way it is. In relation to the size of the farms, an organic farmer receives a little more in subsidies than a conventional farmer. That's right. But it is not as black and white as the fact that we simply have to abolish ecological aid, because a large part of the ecologists' subsidies are given, given that they are subject to a number of restrictions in relation to cultivation. However, it can also be said that conventional farmers receive subsidies targeted at catch crops because of some requirements for the establishment of catch crops. So it's not so black and white. We must be careful that it is not going to be such either-or with conventional or organic farming. It has to be a boat-and-a-boat. There must be room for everything and we must ensure that things go together. The supply of organic products must follow the demand there is. At the same time, we have also decided that we would help it along the way. We were involved in this as a support party for the previous government, as the previous rapporteur said, because there are some things that we also think are important. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114629	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114631	I'm sorry to hear that. I think it is quite reasonable that we should also talk about animal welfare and not just climate. There are many elements involved in this. But the rapporteur says that the rapporteur and DF are in favour of free and fair competition. Why, then, should special subsidies be given for ecology? It could be market-driven. The rapporteur says that production must keep up with demand, but it will do so automatically. It will then just regulate itself in prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114709	I actually tried to say that in my speech. The largest amount is for restructuring aid. At the same time, they also receive conventional subsidies which the ecologists do not receive. Things go up and down. Sometimes pig prices are very good, and they benefit conventional farmers. This is the way the world is set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114738	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114739	But would it not be better to allow the market to regulate it rather than to grant restructuring aid? Then the ecologists will also find it harder to go back if they do not want to continue organic farming. So I don't understand why it can't just take place on free market terms. Well, it will adapt to the demand there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114800	This is because the first years of conversion cannot be sold as organic products. That is why there is ecological aid, restructuring aid, for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114816	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no radical rapporteur. Then there's a SF, sir. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210114830	Thank you. Normally it will be our agricultural rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who takes cases like this, but I have the honour of going up and expressing my unreserved opinion. And it is that I think it is quite obvious that this is a teasing proposal that should bother ecologists and harden the ecology. We know that New Citizens generally are relatively uninterested in combating the climate crisis, and they are also outside the climate law that we have jointly made here in the Folketing. But here suddenly one pretends to be very preoccupied with the climate crisis in order to attack agriculture. But it doesn't make any sense to target ecology. Ecology contributes positively to our health; it contributes positively to the surrounding nature. And now there has been a debate on unfair competition as a result of subsidisation, and I think it should be remembered that there is actually unfair competition today. But it is not for the benefit of the ecologists that it is very much in the interests of conventional agriculture. For the conventional ones do not pay for the extra damage they do to our nature; they do not pay for the extra damage they do to our drinking water; they do not pay for the consequences that may potentially be of increased antibiotic resistance due to the extremely high antibiotic consumption in conventional production. And that is why unfair competition conditions are created as a result of the negative externalities that economists would call what is in conventional production. Instead, conventional agriculture wipes off the bill on the rest of us, and as long as they do, there is very good reason to subsidise organic farming so that they can also compete. If you are genuinely interested in reforming our agriculture and strengthening our fight against the climate crisis, then it is obvious not to go to the fight against ecology; then it is obvious to invest in much more plant-based production and ensure that we reduce our intensive animal production, which absorbs huge areas that have huge consequences for our climate. If New Citizens want to get into the climate struggle in relation to agriculture, I think it would be very welcome. But then I hope that we will fight to reduce our intensive animal production instead of attacking the ecologists. That's really what I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115107	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115109	Thank you very much. No, this is not a teasing proposal. Well, we actually believe that when we have to reduce our CO2 the rapporteur also mentions this because we need more plant-based production, but it has nothing to do with whether it is organic or conventional. That can be produced in both ways. 2 Is the rapporteur so prepared that CO2 is 20%? more CO 2 kg meat produced?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115151	According to the latest estimates, there is in fact little difference between the climate impact of organic production and conventional production, taking into account the large soy production that is made to feed conventionally farmed pigs. So I am not necessarily prepared for that, but we are also very much in favour of taxing organic production when making a CO2 It should be a tax on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115226	It's hard to discuss if we disagree on the facts. I think it is obvious, and I believe that there is also agreement on this, namely that there is greater CO2 then the rapporteur does not think it is a little strange that one should grant subsidies with one hand and then impose a CO2 one should grant a subsidy and take it back again. Isn't that an illogical way to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115259	Perhaps there is something illogical about this, but I also think that, in essence, we need to reform agricultural aid and significantly reduce it. The SF has been in favour of this for many years. The problem is that, when we now have the agricultural aid we have and when conventional agriculture is not taxed for the negative externalities it has, it creates unfair competition in favour of conventionalism. Therefore, it makes good sense to prioritise the ecological and to subsidise it in order to ensure that a production that has very many benefits, among others. animal welfare and better protection of the environment are also being promoted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115331	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115336	What kind of thing gets me out of this chair here, was Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin's statement that SF wants to be sorry if I do not quote correctly, but then Carl Valentin must correct me to reduce or reduce animal production in Denmark. Now I was reading SF's farm paper the other day, and I just want to make it clear to SF that there are several elements in which I can see myself. In fact, I think there are some exciting visions, but I do not think that in the presentation from the SF there are any clear percentages of how much SF will reduce animal production. Of course, I may not have read it carefully enough. But now that Mr. Carl Valentin himself mentions it, I just want to ask: how much does SF want to reduce animal production by e.g. Until 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115423	In fact, we do not have clear targets for how much we want to reduce animal production, but we have confirmed that we want to significantly reduce the agricultural area, and in this respect it is quite important to reduce animal production because there is so much of our agriculture • 80%. So if we are to reduce the agricultural area, animal production must also be reduced, and I think that is absolutely central.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115450	But then I had read SF's paper quite correctly. I'm just in line with SF in that we need less agricultural land in Denmark. We are already in the process of doing so, and millions and billions of dollars have been set aside in the Finance Act to take out, for example. low-ground soils. But I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin, if he is not afraid of the loss of jobs if you are going to significantly reduce animal production, as for example. can mean for Produktionsdanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115518	No, we are not very concerned about this, because plant production can also contribute additional jobs, so the conversion that is to take place not only in Denmark, but globally from animal production to more plant production can also mean much more jobs. So we're not really worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115535	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210115548	This proposal from New Citizens to dismantle organic aid is probably one of the worst proposals I have ever seen in the Danish Parliament. It is not only because we want to abolish subsidies for ecology. That is, in fact, because there are some false allegations in the proposal. The first claim is: organic farming has for many years been regarded as a sustainable production method that can help achieve the goal of reducing Danish CO2 emissions. ▪ For those of us who have been involved in organic farming since the early 1990s, CO2 was organic farming contributing many benefits: Food without residues of spray poison, a aquatic environment and drinking water without toxic residues, a richer nature in the agricultural area with a much richer biodiversity. Organic farmers do not use fertilisers and do not fight pests and weeds and diseases in the field with synthetic pesticides and hormone substances. This is one of the main reasons why there are 30%. more wild plants and animals, insects and micro-organisms in and around organic fields than in conventional ones. That's a significant difference. On the long track there are not all kinds of bills for the next generation such as: To clean up after pesticide farming, which is now facing the Cheminova site being cleaned up for 250 million. kr. After all, this is one of the post-Pesticide bills that we are about to clean up by means of the Financial Act. Then there are other important things: organic farming uses less fertiliser and thus pollutes less phosphorus and nitrogen in our aquatic environment. And then there is the fact that ecologists are working seriously on better animal welfare on organic farming and that animals have rights. Cattle can go to pasture 150 days a year, and poultry have been given an area outdoors and indoors. Then there is another claim in the proposal: "But organic farming does not lead to lower CO2." of a Swedish research study. Yes, it has to be said that it is one source and that it is a source that relates to wheat and pea cultivation in Sweden. If you then look at what is of Danish research results, then there are more recent results from Aarhus University that show if you go in and look at it and look at what it is for a build-up of carbon in the soil that happens, that we are in a situation where organic farming is better than traditional farming. The Enhedslisten prioritises ecology, and we have that among others. in the financial law agreement we have concluded with other parties. 4 times 45 million. kr. I hope that further to the ecology can help to contribute to continued development. And in the paper of understanding with the government, it says that we will double the ecology, both in terms of the area in Denmark, the export and the domestic market. What is the status right now is that we have an organic farming that covers 10%. of the area. We have a sales of eco-products in Denmark at just over 11%, and there is an export of 3 billion. kr., which is rising. We have a long tradition of 30 years with the Danish state-controlled island brand. We are a pioneering country in ecology. And we cannot support this resolution at all. Then I would say that this has now been said that it should be part of a climate struggle, and it has to be said that when you confront the farmers with the need to focus more on climate, then the reception in organic farming is: yes, we want to make climate action plans at farm level. And that's where we're going, because all farms in Denmark can improve CO2 If you look at the crop rotations of the ecologists, their cultivation of the fields, then there is thus a potential to learn from the ecologists and learn a lot from them in relation to how much nitrogen can be stored in the soil. Then I also think it is important to have a good focus on our drinking water. In other words, what are we going to do when we are going to clean up drinking water for various pesticide residues? It's gonna cost you. And, of course, it is the extra bills of traditional farming that make organic farming the safe choice, because there is a broad range of social benefits in giving priority to organic farming. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we have a clear policy that we must actually convert our entire agriculture into ecology. There's no discrimination about this. There are some schemes and all farms can receive aid, a conversion aid if they want to move from pesticide agriculture to organic farming, and I would urge all traditional farmers to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120044	Thank you. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120047	Well, thank you. I am sorry, then, that the rapporteur thinks this is the worst proposal he has seen in his time. But if we convert the whole of Danish agriculture into organic farming, production will fall. Does the rapporteur not agree that some production will then be moved abroad and that production will then be produced under conditions where more CO2 is emitted and that is what this is all about in the end, at least when we are talking about CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120120	When we talk CO2 Well, we can't feed the world with pork chops. We are in a situation where 800 million people in the world get too little to eat every day. We are therefore in a situation where the people who eat the most meat must eat less meat. The countries producing a lot of meat must produce less meat. And we can easily feed the whole world with more vegetable production. So that's kind of what we're going for. Well, there we have to say that if you are an ecologist, you have good conditions in Denmark, because there are colleagues to spar with. There is a domestic market that prioritises it. There is a public sector which gives priority to eating organic food in schools, etc. So we are in fact a pioneering country of ecology, and traditional farmers can safely adapt to ecology because there is support for it. I can also see in the Chamber today that there is a great deal of political support for ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120222	But if we stop producing meat Denmark, it will just be produced somewhere else. Now the rapporteur wants to convert to 100 per cent. organic farming in Denmark. Does the rapporteur also think that we should convert to 100 per cent? global ecology? What would that bring? Would there be enough food for all the people on earth if we did so worldwide? In other words, the Third World countries are building large-scale fertilizer factories to feed their populations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120258	If you look at global experience with ecology, there are some extra good results in some hot countries, for example. In Uganda, where significant increases in production can be achieved by growing organically with a varied crop choice, rather than by growing monocultures for export. So there is really good experience of ecology in the world, and there are also many poor people who simply cannot afford pesticides and fertilizers and who thus develop organic farming from the bottom up. It is actually possible to feed the world with ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120333	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120349	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that this was one of the worst proposals he had experienced in his time in Parliament I can add by saying that I have been here for some 51⁄2 years, and I think I have stood on this platform 250 times and dealt with legislative and resolution proposals, and this motion for a resolution to drop support for organic farming in Denmark is the very least I have ever seen in this Chamber. I have lived in the countryside myself, deep between the fields, where I have had fields on all sides of my house and had the opportunity to see how it worked with the conventional farmer on the one hand, who sprayed poison and fertilized. While all the grain was standing equally high, but there were only cereal fields in the deserts, I would almost call it "There were no birds, no flower flies, no beetles, no butterflies, nothing but grain. On the other side of the house of the organic farmer it looked a little more messy, there was a little more difference in the height of the grain, there was a little chamomile in the grain, and then there were flies, flower flies, butterflies, vibes, larks and biodiversity at all. And it has impressed me by seeing for myself the difference between conventional and organic farming from a biodiversity perspective. But, of course, I know that it is not my personal experience that legislation should be drawn up, so if we are to take a little more scientific action on the motion for a resolution tabled by New Citizens to remove support for organic farming, then it quickly turns out that the very premise of New Citizens' proposals is wrong. Organic farming does not generally emit more CO2 The minister has explained how several researchers at Aarhus University have established it, and you can also get it confirmed from Agriculture & Food, where Anders Klöcker has recently stated it in an article. Furthermore, there are other effects of organic farming than the climate effect that I see New Citizens worrying about for the first time today. Well, 60%. of Denmark is covered by agriculture. We are the country around the world which, together with Bangladesh, has the most agriculture, and therefore it is incredibly important whether it is organic farming, where there is room for biodiversity, where there is room for flower flies, butterflies, etc., or whether it is grain deserts where there is only room for cereals. It also means a great deal to animal welfare, whether or not agriculture is organic. There are some requirements for organic farming which, of course, benefit animal welfare quite strongly. And since the organic markets are growing, I also think it makes sense to support organic farming economically. So it is clear that, in the alternative, we are voting against the new citizens' proposal to remove support for organic farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120645	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120647	Thanks for the speech. Now it is not true that new citizens are not interested in CO2 we are very interested in that. Once we have adopted this 70-percent objective, we are very concerned that we are doing it in the most appropriate way. Now the rapporteur speaks a lot about biodiversity, and it is true that there is of course a difference between biodiversity in conventional and organic farming, but an organic farming takes up the more space that could then instead be attributed to free nature. Surely it would bring more biodiversity if we did so. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120726	We must have limited agriculture in Denmark. We have too much agriculture. The limitation must not be on the organic. Although it takes up a little bit more, it's very good for the alternative. What we need to have limited is what we call grain deserts. We must help agriculture to convert to organic production, but we would also like to have limited agriculture in general. We hope that we can do so in connection with creating a more plant-based agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120754	If we limit agriculture in Denmark, we will simply move it abroad. Is that the rapporteur's solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120804	I've been thinking about moving agriculture abroad a little bit lately. How do you do that? So, will the rapporteur take the land on a field wheelbarrow for wheelbarrow and move it to Germany? It is precisely agriculture that is reasonably stationary. It's not the kind of thing you just move. I do not know whether the rapporteur will be allowed to start moving farms in lorries or whether farmers will be allowed to start moving their farms, their land, abroad. So I haven't quite figured out how to move a field to Poland.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120835	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210120845	Thank you. State aid to industry is basically a bad thing. State aid to ecology is no exception. It is political interference for taxpayers' money, which sabotages healthy market mechanisms and distorts the industry, destroys free competition, thereby making goods more expensive and worse for the consumer. There should be no doubt that New Citizens want to give Danish agriculture better conditions of production, more freedom, lower taxes and fewer taxes. However, there should also be no doubt that we want to provide better production conditions, and the greater freedom, the lower tax and the lower taxes that we are going to give to agriculture should be used to free the industry from the state aid which is currently being channelled through the European Union to Danish agriculture. The proposal put forward by the new citizens, which we are discussing today, is more limited. It is about the extra support given to ecology. We want to abolish it, partly for the reasons mentioned above and partly for three other reasons. Firstly, it would be good for consumers to have a more free choice of consumption and not to be forced to pay for something they do not want. Secondly, it would be good for agricultural production and the Danish economy if subsidies for ecology were removed, because production would then increase overall. Thirdly, it would be good for the environment because on a smaller area one can produce the same conventionally and thus free more nature for the benefit of biodiversity; CO2 Climate has been a magic word in politics in recent years. By referring to the climate, you can find support in the media and in politics for a lot of crazy ideas. The government has recently tried meat-free days in state cafeteria. Fortunately, it fell for the laughter limit. But on the whole, climate is a word that opens both public funds and the way to subsidies, restrictions, taxes and bans. The climate word has become an effective tool in the hands of the Left in particular and the Radical Left, who crave to determine as much as possible and leave as little as possible to the Danes themselves. As a citizen, of course, I would be very much against this. For me, the freedom of the Danes is most important. But support for ecology is also being defended today by the left with the climate word, in the expectation that it will stop all resistance. However, allow me to make the heretical claim from the platform that ecology is not good for the climate, rather quite the contrary. Organic agricultural production in Denmark will in most cases burden the climate more than conventional agriculture. So don't use the climate as an explanation for taxpayers having to pay for you wanting to decide how the land is to be cultivated. There is no evidence to suggest so. Then I can see that there was little support for our proposal, but I am grateful for an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121134	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121205	The debate is open. First, it is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121217	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for presenting it here. A resolution has been tabled to introduce a labelling system for halal-certified meat so that both imported halal-slaughtered meat and meat halal-slaughtered meat in Denmark will in future be clearly labelled. Proposers justify this by ensuring that consumers have a free choice as to whether or not they want to buy meat from halal-slaughtered animals. We have recently discussed a very similar motion for a resolution, B 46, tabled by the Danish People's Party, seeking to introduce requirements for the labelling of meat by slaughter method. It is essential to stress once again that there is no difference in animal welfare as to whether conventionally slaughtered or slaughtered according to religious and ritual slaughter methods, and this is the case when animals are slaughtered here in Denmark. This is because the Danish rules require prior stunning of the animals, regardless of the method of slaughter. The rules were introduced in 2014 under a Social Democratic government. The labelling rules for food products are completely harmonised in the EU, and it therefore follows from EU rules what information is mandatory to label food. The Member States have thus jointly agreed on the information to be provided on food, and the method of slaughter is not one of the mandatory data. To introduce such a requirement would require a joint political decision in the European Union, as the labelling rules are, as I have said, completely harmonised. The Food Information Regulation provides for the introduction of national food labelling requirements only if the requirements are justified on at least one of the following grounds: public health protection, consumer protection and the fight against fraud. Labelling by method of slaughter is considered not to be justified on any of these grounds. At the same time, I would like to emphasise here that EU rules require labelling, among others. beef and poultrymeat, specifying the country in which the animal was slaughtered. Consumers can therefore opt out of meat from animals which have not been slaughtered in Denmark if they want to avoid the use of a religious method of slaughter where anesthetic has not been used first. As Minister for Food, I am responsible for regulating animal welfare, food safety, nutritional content and food quality. When regulation of slaughter methods in Denmark means that legal slaughter methods ensure an acceptable level for all those considerations, then the labelling of meat with slaughter methods, such as halal slaughter, is, in my view, superfluous and certainly not something that falls within my ministerial group. Producers can themselves, at any time, voluntarily set up schemes to enable consumers to choose non-ritually slaughtered products, provided, of course, that the consumer is not misled. As a company, i.e. producers, hospitals, nursing homes etc., you can choose voluntarily to inform about it or mark it, in relation to whether it is for example halal, nonhalal or similar. What is crucial is that the information does not mislead the consumer. I would like to call on the industry itself to ensure openness and transparency in relation to the slaughter method used. It's voluntary, so why not? But my focus as Minister for Food is to work for more animal welfare in the EU. We must work for an animal welfare mark in the European Union, and I will put my energies into that. So, on the basis of the overall arguments I have examined here, I do not believe that there are grounds for introducing rules as proposed in B 76, and, as with the Danish People's Party's proposal, B 46, I would suggest that the proposal be rejected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121620	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121623	Thank you. I think it is rather fresh for the Minister to say that this proposal is superfluous, because there are, in fact, other citizens in Denmark than the Minister himself. Because it can be for religious reasons that people do not want to support halal. Halal slaughters, halal flesh, are actually sacrificial meat, and Christians should not eat it. So there may be religious reasons for it. I would just like to ask the Minister very quickly about the fact that there is no difference in slaughtering, but there is. Because we import from the European Union, and not all countries in the European Union have anesthetics, just as we do in Denmark. So a labelling on imported meat could be very good. I think it's a little cheap to say that you can just stop buying foreign meat when you don't know. I just don't think it's okay. In fact, I think this is part of consumer protection, as the Minister himself said that one of the reasons could be consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121729	I stress the issue of animal welfare. I have to say that in 2014, when the Social Democratic Party had the power of government, for the sake of animal welfare, we have fortunately introduced the rule that animals must be drugged first before they are slaughtered. This is very good for animal welfare. This also means that regardless of the slaughter method, whether there are religious considerations or otherwise, animal welfare is under control in Denmark. And so it was just that I gave the service information that if you as a consumer are preoccupied with this, you have the opportunity to choose a Danish product, because then you know that it is animals that have been drugged first, so animal welfare is under control. That's kind of just what I was trying to say. And yes, then there may be religious reasons for choosing one or the other. And there I also had a call that if that is how the profession wants it, then they are welcome to inform it. And then you can choose the product that is not linked to ritual slaughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121828	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121830	Thank you. Animal welfare is very important, including for us, and therefore stunning is obviously a must, and it should be throughout the European Union. And I hope that the Minister will, of course, work for that. But we have a state eco-label, which I think is good, because then you can opt out or opt out. It would be very reasonable for us consumers also to be able to opt out or opt out of halal meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121858	But there is the possibility that producers can choose to label it. If you want to brand yourself that you do not have meat that is halal-slaughtered, then you are free to label it and then the consumer has the opportunity to buy it. My assessment is that this is not something that so many consumers care about, and that is why nothing has really happened in this area. And that is not something that many people address to me about. But there must certainly be a wish, and it is up to the producers to say: if there is a business in this, then we feel it. And then people can choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121935	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210121937	Thank you, Minister. I'll start by making a service message. This is one of the first resolutions that we tabled and which we then withdrew in the spring, so we have decided that we will extend it and that we will table an amendment so that it applies not only to halal-certified meat but also to all other halal-certified products. I think the Minister comes a little easy on this, that you can risk buying halal-slaughtered meat from animals that have not been sedated, namely that you can do it by buying Danish. After all, it is not certain that all consumers are aware of this connection. Does the Minister really think that it is reasonable for the Danish shops to be able to buy meat which is halal-slaughtered without stunning?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122027	What I am concerned about as Danish Minister for Food is that we have control of animal welfare, that there is a control of health in relation to the products you buy, that there is a control of nutritional content, etc. That's what's within my range. I have great respect for the fact that people may have different religious preferences, but I do not think that this is something that falls to me as Minister for Food to start feeling with it. Then there is the fact that we in Denmark, including for commercial reasons, have reached an agreement with the rest of the European Union on what kind of brands we have, and in this context we do not have the opportunity to recognise with religious preferences. But it is voluntary for the producer to feel with it if you want to, and I can only encourage you to do so. If there are enough people who care about it and have that preference and want to opt out of halal, then you can feel it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122128	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122130	Thank you. So I understand that the Minister does not consider it a problem that there is no halal marking in Denmark. I am well aware that there are some challenges with regard to the European Union. So will the Minister or the relevant Minister of Government work in the EU to make it possible to introduce such a compulsory labelling scheme in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122156	As I also said in my speech, I am working hard to have a common animal welfare mark in the European Union, and I am thinking that one of the things that should be included in such a label is that animals are drugged before slaughter. This could be a step in the right direction, so that when you buy a European product you know that no animals have been slaughtered without being drugged. That would be a very good step in the right direction. As far as religious preferences are concerned, I do not think that it is my job as Minister for Food to interfere with this, but I can only call for the producer to choose to sign it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122233	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122235	Thank you so much. As my colleague, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, said, this must of course be expanded, so it applies to all halal-certified products. Because when you as a consumer go down into a Danish supermarket, you can actually risk paying money for the spread of Islam and being completely unaware of it because there are very many companies who choose to have their products halal certified. That is why we believe it should be labelled. For the Danes, of course, must have the opportunity to make an informed choice whether you want to pay money for the spread of Islam. Does the Minister not really think that is fair enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122319	As Minister for Food, I have, as has already been mentioned, focused on animal welfare, the quality, health, hygiene and so on, the fact that you can buy food which meets the standards that we expect, and for which we have some labelling arrangements. Religious preferences I don't see it's my job to interfere with. It is true that, as a consumer, when you go down and shop in a supermarket and choose a product, you cannot know whether the producer there is, supports one or the other or the third or the fourth or the fifth religious context or political context or something else, and I think that it can become something of a label circus if all sorts of things are to be felt that way around. But there is a call that, if you want to feel that you do not use religious methods of slaughter, you have the opportunity to do so. I think that is a good opportunity, and that should be taken into account if there is a great need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122419	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122420	No, it is therefore a silly non-argument by the Minister about all sorts of strange labelling arrangements. What we have a real problem with in Denmark, what we are dealing with right now, is that there are goods in the Danish supermarkets. In fact, there are quite a lot of those who are halal certified and where the money goes to the spread of Islam, and I think the minister is trying to get a little light about it. The Minister passes on responsibility to some other ministries and also says that as a company you can support all sorts of different things. That's not what this is about. This is about the fact that the Danes must of course know whether some of the money they pay for a commodity goes to the spread of an entirely different ideology and religion than the one they themselves stand for. Thank you). After all, the Minister himself has plenty of other labelling schemes in the food sector to inform consumers exactly what they are buying. Does not the Minister really believe that Danish consumers are entitled to know this so that they can make an informed choice down at the cooling counter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122518	Thank you! When I say thank you, it is because the speaking time has expired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122521	Thanks means thank you. I'm not trying to be easy about it, and I'm sorry if it gets that way. I am trying to take this very seriously in my area of responsibility, which is food quality, which is animal welfare, and I am working hard to ensure better animal welfare within the European Union. I do not see it as my area of responsibility to mark with different preferences whether it is religious or political. Nor can I know, when I go down and buy something in the supermarket, whether the producer in question is paying a quota to New Citizens. I can take a position on that, but it is not stated on the product.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122559	Thank you. Then there will be no further comments. Or is there? Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122605	I made it right on the fall, I could hear. I am just appalled to hear the Minister compare it, to support Islamic mission through a labelling system, and to see that one producer is a member of a political party. I think that is two completely different things, and surely it is not possible to compare that, and it is fundamentally wrong that consumers, without knowing it, should support something that they are perhaps fundamentally opposed to through the purchase of the product. When you buy a product from a carpenter who is a member of the New Citizen or of the Social Democratic Party, you do not immediately support their party, but you do so when you buy these goods. Then you support maintaining and continuing to have these schemes that give a lot of money to Islamic missions in Denmark.I think that's creepy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122709	In no way do I have any warm feelings for the Islamic ideology or religion in any way, and I do not want to support it when I'm down to act. What I am just dealing with is that, as Minister for Food, I am responsible for what is about the quality of the food and the animal welfare issue, for which we have some labelling arrangements. What is then of religious and political preferences, I cannot interfere with. Then I say that it may well be that you cannot compare having a political preference with a religious preference. I am quite sure that may be an untimely comparison. But when you buy a product from a producer, you can't know who he or she is supporting, and that's just what it is. There may be business clubs and other things where certain political purposes are supported, and one cannot know that, and I think that labelling can become something of a circus if it is to appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122802	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122803	But it is just a completely absurd comparison, because this is a product that is precisely bought by a whole number of consumers because it is halal-produced and it can be exported to Muslim countries because it is halal-produced. So it is part of the production itself and it is a matter of importance to a large number of consumers. That is why, of course, it should be on all products, so that those who wish to opt out have the opportunity to do so, and I think it is a strange weave around in that answer not because it is the most correct thing for the consumer to be able to choose from here if you do not want to support the Islamisation of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122851	Well, the possibility exists. If the manufacturer wants to label his product with the fact that it is not associated with e.g. religious slaughter or other form of halal certification, then you have the opportunity to do so, and then consumers will be able to choose the product that is not associated with it, and that is a good option there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122912	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We shall begin with the rapporteur's line now. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210122925	Thank you, President. With this resolution, New Citizens propose that both imported and Danish produced halal meat should be clearly labelled. In addition, the proposers want Danish consumers to be informed whether the meat is halal certified. As you know, we have almost just considered a virtually identical motion for a resolution on halal meat tabled by the Danish People's Party, and in the short time I have been a member of the Folketing, about 11⁄2 years, this is now the third time that I have been involved in dealing with this motion for a resolution. That is why there will also be a few repetitions today, in relation to what I have said before, because our views in the Social Democratic Party are, in fact, unchanged. In EU cooperation, we have rules that ensure that goods can be easily exported to and sold in other EU countries. Therefore, individual Member States cannot make special rules, as is proposed here. If there is a great desire on the part of consumers to have such labelling, nothing stands in the way of companies being able to halalise their products on their own initiative. But, as you know, supply often requires demand too, and there seems to be insufficient demand here. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123034	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123036	Thank you. I am well aware that there is a challenge with the European Union on this issue, so I asked the Minister for Food if it was considered reasonable that such a label should be introduced. I would also like to ask the rapporteur about this. Does the rapporteur not think that it is reasonable for consumers to be able to see that they are buying a product which contributes to the spread of Islam? Does the rapporteur not think that it is a reasonable requirement to make it possible for consumers to know?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123109	I think it would be more obvious and reasonable if it were the case that I saw that there was a great demand for this. I do not see that demand out there, and I am also based on the fact that, as I actually thought New Citizens had, I have a great deal of confidence in the logic of the market economy, which, among other things, is one of the reasons for this. is that, if there is a demand for something, there are also often some who come and are willing to offer it. There must, of course, not be enough demand, since any company could, from tomorrow, just start labeling its products with this if you wanted to. But that demand must not be there since it has not happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123152	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123155	This could also be linked to the fact that it was not an advantage for food producers to label it. It may well be that the wish is there, but that it would make consumers opt out of the manufacturer's products. Then it is clear that it will not be implemented. Does the rapporteur not see that this could be a possible explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123212	I have to say that is a slightly reversed logic for me, because I actually understand from the rapporteur here that the desire is to get this labelling so that you can know what you are buying or not buying, and so that consumers can buy products that are not halal-marked or buy some that are halal-marked. Why information on a voluntary basis should be a problem, I do not see, but there must be no demand for it. I certainly haven't come across it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123242	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123244	It's very clever to say that. What the rapporteur is saying is a little bit like the Minister's. That's a weird approach. Now we started by saying, of course, this shouldn't just apply to halal-certified meat. It must apply to all halal-certified goods. When the rapporteur goes down and buys for his family, the rapporteur will certainly support the spread of Islam. Is the rapporteur happy about that? Does the rapporteur think that this is satisfactory in Denmark? Or would the rapporteur really like to be able to opt out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123318	I do not really recognise that connection. When Mrs Mette Thiesen says that this is a strange approach, I really think that our approach can be boiled down to resting on three legs. One is food security, the other is animal welfare, and the third is jobs, growth and prosperity. That's the last thing that, among other things. is crucial. We cannot make national legislation in an area that is EU-regulated, because we would like to be able to export Danish products freely to the rest of the EU circle, just as they should be able to do so to us as part of the internal market. To start moving out of keys, challenging the cooperation or putting stones in the shoes of Danish companies when they are going to export freely to the rest of Europe, will of course cost jobs and growth and economy in Denmark. We do not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123409	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123411	Nobody is suggesting that either. They can export anything they want. We just want to know, as Danes, whether what we buy in our local supermarket makes a contribution to the spread of Islam and whether it is a kneel to an ideology that we do not in any way want to welcome or otherwise fund. Can the rapporteur not understand that, in other words, one would like to be informed as a consumer? There are labelling schemes in all sorts of other areas. But in relation to the spread of Islam, one is incredibly afraid of touch. Why is social democracy so? You guys usually look up to the fact that you're the kind of people who are tough in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123450	There's no fear of touch here. When there is a problem, we would like to resolve it, but when there is a resolution that hits past the target, we will not pick up the ball, come back and move it into the middle of the target, because there we do not think it should be. The fact that Islam is being promoted is, I think, exaggerated. I also think that the Minister's picture from before that if you buy a product from someone who owns a company, and they had to support a political party, you also support it, is an excellent parallel. Because what is central here is that we are within the framework of the law. It is not the case that the money that goes to those who halalcertify can just be spent on anything. For example: Some money that goes to extremist terrorist organisations, or whatever I know, can have consequences in relation to the legislation that we have, moreover, that we should not support terrorist-related organisations and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123535	Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123538	Thank you. What I reacted to was that the rapporteur actually said that demand is not there. No, it is because consumers are not aware that they are actually buying halal products, and that is whether it is meat or other things. That is why there is no demand; a lot of people do not know that they support it. So I would like to hear: does the rapporteur really not care when the rapporteur goes down and acts that he supports the spread of Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123611	I do not support the spread of Islam when I go down and act, and I believe that the rapporteur underestimates consumers. So, I think consumers are well aware that halal slaughter is widespread. What is so crucial, at least for my own part, and I believe for many other consumers too, is that it is done in a way that ensured the former Social Democratic government in 2014 fortunately, where the animals do not suffer harm, and they do not do so because they are drugged before. So animal welfare is in place, and that is what I think is absolutely crucial in this, and then, of course, food safety, and that is also entirely in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123648	Thank you. Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123649	Then I can inform the rapporteur that halal certification is a billion-dollar industry, and a great deal of the money goes to the Muslim World League, as we know we cannot prove that it supports terror, Islamic terror. So I would like to hear again: does the rapporteur, when he goes down and acts, support the spread of Islam? Because if it is not marked on the goods, the rapporteur does not actually know whether he buys it and supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123729	No, for the third-fourth time I think it is: I do not support the spread of Islam when I go down and act. I'm gonna go shopping to buy the things I need now. I think I may lack some proof of these allegations that the money goes to terrorist-related companies. If that is true and if Mrs Lise Bech is aware of it, then I think that this is something we should very much study, because of course we cannot live with it. But, well, I just don't know about that. And if that is the case, it must of course be reported to the police, and I would urge Mrs Lise Bech to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123804	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123806	The rapporteur said that it is excessive for the money to go to Islamic missions. I do not think it is, and if you have the suspects and Kristeligt Dagblad has actually uncovered it and looked at what it is that the money goes to, then I think it must be fair, whether you agree with it or not, that the consumer is told. And the money goes to Islamic organisations that carry out a mission in Denmark, supporting mosques. If you are opposed to that, I think you should have the opportunity to opt it out, and therefore there must be clear labelling of whether it is halal or not. In addition, I also believe that there should be greater opportunities for producers who do not carry out halal slaughter, in other words, that they will have a larger market by the fact that the others are labeled as being halal. For there are many people in charge of myself who really want to be allowed to buy something that I can be sure will not go for a further Islamization of my homeland. Can the rapporteur not see the reasonableness of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210123911	Well, there's nothing wrong with starting to feel that you can just do that if you're a company that wants to feel that you don't halal butcher or the opposite. You are welcome to do so, and if there is such a market for what is being suggested today by both the New Civil and the Danish People's Party, then I cannot understand that there are no producers who are just starting to do so, because then there must be a good economy in this too. However, to begin to impose on it at national level that it should be done, I simply cannot get to relate to what it will then have consequences for Danish jobs, Danish exports etc. At the same time, I think it might also be overlooked that, as far as cultural Christians are concerned, how animals have been slaughtered does not matter to me. Well, that's what's a crucial difference in this. It is obviously more important for cultural Muslims, and that is why it is also essential for exports and for growth and jobs etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124014	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124016	As a Christian, I don't care if there's light Buddhist or Islamic or all sorts of hulla-bulla over a piece of meat... it doesn't change that much. However, I will not tolerate the fact that through my spending I will be supporting organisations that mission for Islam in Denmark. I just don't want to do that. Producers who do not produce halal get a really bad chance when the consumer cannot clearly see what is halal and what is not halal, because the consumer does not really know when they are buying what they can vouch for and what they cannot vouch for. So it is a failure of the individual consumer who wants to avoid supporting the further Islamisation of Denmark. I am so disappointed that the Social Democrats cannot comprehend that we should avoid further Islamisation and help those people who want to resist Islamisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124108	I agree that we must avoid Islamisation in places where Islamisation causes problems, and there are many examples of it doing so. But I do not believe that New Civil and Danish People's Party has found one of them here. I would like to say again that I simply do not understand this lack of confidence in market forces. So, if there are so many people who feel the way the members of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens feel this afternoon, then as a smart food company that produced non-halal-certified things, I would hurry to put a mark on it and then advertise it and then sell the product. But there does not seem to be sufficient demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124146	Thank you. No more comments on the rapporteur. Sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124205	Thank you for the floor. And I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for the proposal to label halal-certified meat. After all, we discussed a similar proposal for approx. 14 days ago in this Chamber and the difference is that this proposal only requires labelling of halal-certified meat. Today, too, we would like to point out that the Left believes that the intentions behind the proposal are good. The free choice is and should be a cornerstone. Information is always good, and I can reveal that I myself, as a consumer, tried at some point to understand how to buy something that is not halal-slaughtered. I found out, for example, that there was a Zealand chicken butchery where you didn't halal-slaughter, and then I've been trying to trade there since. We believe that it should be the case that many consumers would appreciate such a labelling system. We think that the individual citizen should have the opportunity to choose halal-certified meat freely on or off. We can only note that this is not the case today, as there is no requirement for meat to be fitted with a label indicating the method of slaughter. The rules on food labelling are harmonised in the European Union. This means that Denmark is not able to lay down rules on this matter at national level. However, as we said last time when we were discussing this, we believe that the food companies of their own free will should instead label meat that is halal-slaughtered so that consumers are free to choose, and we would very much like such a scheme also to have the support of the Ministry of Food so that it was registered and examined so that there was some form of state control over it. That is the way to do something next to the EU system. If it came up in the European Union that you want to feel by slaughter method, then that is something we would like to support, in that context, because that is where it will really make a difference and where it will be possible on the Danish market. In conclusion, the most important thing must be, of course, as was mentioned several times, that animal welfare is in order. All animals slaughtered in Denmark are first drugged, so that there is no difference in animal welfare between conventional or religious slaughter. But there may still be when we look at imports of meat into Denmark. That's something I'd like to have lifted a little more. What can be done in this area so that we are sure that there are no animals bought by Danish consumers who have not been drugged before they are slaughtered. I will take that up with our food rapporteur so that we can move a little further down that track. With these words, I should like to say that the Left cannot support the proposal, but in many ways therefore has a very great understanding of the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124508	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124510	Thank you very much. I am therefore pleased to hear that we are very much in agreement, at least on the objective. The fact that there is a problem with EU legislation is something that the Left, when one comes back to government, will make a priority of trying to work to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124529	This requires us to have the government watch, but I also think it is something that we can travel within the European Union, and I will have a talk with our MEPs about that when we have the opportunity to do so. I have had some preliminary talks with some of them about it, but it is not something we have finished with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124556	Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124558	That sounds really good, so thank you. Hopefully, we can get a bill on this at a later date.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124614	I didn't hear a question from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, but more of an indication that we were far in agreement, and I am delighted about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124627	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124629	I would also like to welcome the fact that it is always good. If the rapporteur is now aware that this should not only apply to halal-certified meat, but that it should generally apply to halal-certified goods, because it contributes blindfolds as a Danish consumer to Islam, where does the Left stand in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124654-2	Well, there I think it's a little bit the same principle. Of course, there is no escaping from the talk we have had about animal welfare, but the same principles must apply there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124706	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124707	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124713	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210124718	Thank you, President. This proposal is a very good proposal, which the Danish People's Party warmly supports.Of course, we do so because the Danish People's Party has made similar proposals on several occasions, even at the latest on 1 December of this year. Unfortunately, we can see that the current Minister for Food, like his predecessor, is covered by EU rules: that the labelling rules for food are completely harmonised in the European Union, that the Member States have agreed jointly on what information should be on food, that the method of slaughter is not one of the information that it is mandatory to label and that introducing such requirements will require a common political decision in the European Union. The Food Information Regulation provides for the introduction of national labelling requirements for foodstuffs only if the requirements are justified on at least one of the following grounds: the protection of public health, the protection of consumers and the fight against fraud. I can then claim that national labelling of halal meat can be justified by a requirement for consumer protection. It is quite absurd that a large majority of Danes should submit to the religious practices of the Muslim minority. In terms of animal welfare, many people do not want to support the killing of animals without stunning. It is cruelty to animals, but it is still happening in many countries, including in European countries. Denmark is still a Christian country and it is unreasonable that Danish consumers, often without knowing it, must eat ritually slaughtered meat. Christians should not eat sacrificial meat like halal flesh. And Danish consumers often come without knowing it to support a billion-dollar business used to spread Islam. In 2017, we introduced a state animal welfare label, which I support, as it has created better animal welfare and thus allows consumers to choose meat and dairy products at the level of animal welfare appropriate to their preferences and purses. Denmark was the first country in the EU to have an animal welfare mark. A pan-European animal welfare label is now under discussion in the European Union, and that is a good thing. But it also says something about the usefulness and the fact that we can take the lead on this. If we in Denmark can set up a labelling system on animal welfare, we can also do so in the case of halal-slaughter meat, whether it is animals which, as in Denmark, are drugged prior to slaughter or whether they are animals which are killed without stunning. The Danish People's Party rejects Sharia and the Islamic concepts of purity, and we want the Danes to have better opportunities to choose on or off in the supermarkets by means of full information and information. So again: The Danish People's Party supports the proposal, which is very similar to proposals previously made by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125027	Thank you. There's a comment. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125031	Well, I'd like to sign and thank you for your support. Now, of course, we have tabled an amendment to extend it to all other halal-certified products as well as meat. Will the Danish People's Party also support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125046	Yes, of course. After all, it is reasonable that we can choose on or off in relation to halal certification.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125055	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125058	Well, that's excellent. And then New Civil and Danish People's Party must continue this fight, so that hopefully we can get to the finish line at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125110	I hope that it will come through at some point, because it is important that the Danes are informed about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125118	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125126	Thank you, President. I shall skip the many explanations that the Minister has also made and started with, since this is the third time that we have been discussing this matter in this year at least, but I am only pleased about it. For us, of course, this is also about animal welfare, and I am, of course, particularly pleased to hear the Minister say that the government is working to spread an animal welfare scheme throughout the European Union, so that we can also be sure that the meat imported into Denmark comes from animals that have been drugged. It is no wonder, then, that we in the Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution. And it really surprises me a long way along the way that New Citizens, as in so many other contexts, are campaigning for companies, for example. (i) to reduce their administrative burdens or to reduce public expenditure more or less, or that all tax legislation should be able to fill only one side of the coin; (ii) to impose this burden on undertakings. I am very surprised when you so much support a minimal state that you want to put this on our business community. It also puzzles me that New Citizens seem to me today that it is important to campaign for the free choice of citizens when yesterday, when we discussed vegetarians and vegans' opportunities to freely actually have access to a plant-based meal in public kitchens, it seemed suddenly to be a matter for both the market and for the municipalities and for everyone other than the Folketing. But clearly the exact labelling of halal meat is something that we have to interfere with here in the Danish Parliament, where you could assume that, as the minister does, if the demand is there and the customers are there, then the companies also seize that opportunity and create this offer. That's one thing. The second point is that, as rapporteur for the Left, the free choice of consumers actually exists. The fact is that you can look into the matter yourself if it is very important to you and then buy your chickens from this Zealandic slaughterhouse, which the rapporteur is talking about. Or you can do what some of us do, don't buy meat at all and live vegetarian or vegan, or you can't really just, like the vast majority of consumers, care about this question and then actually just buy meat and enjoy your Danish-produced chicken: If you want to be sure that it has been okay and has been killed in a sensible way, you can concentrate on buying Danish. So far, so good. And we really think that it covers the consumer's free choice very well, so we have no intention whatsoever of supporting this motion for a resolution. Then there is this argument that it supports terrorist organisations. And we know that if you just dig a tiny bit of spade in what's really going on here, what's going on is that Muslim organizations that are approved to certify halal meat for example. export, come in and make a halal certification. They get paid to do that. But these Muslim organisations are only halal-certifying the amount of meat or exactly the pallets, or whatever you can call it, which is for their market, and that is something that consumers in that country are paying for. An example that has previously been drawn forward is that World Muslim Organization is being paid by consumers in Saudi Arabia to certify goods in Denmark. It is not something that Danish consumers pay for. Let us then do an experiment that said that we cannot guarantee our export market that our meat is halal. Then we will lose such an export share of the world market that our meat products, chickens in Denmark, would increase by 10%. So when it rises by 10%, I'm just thinking that New Citizens and Danish People's Party voters might get tiny bit angry. So I do not actually understand why you can go out and look after the interests of your constituents by making this proposal, because ultimately it will cost the meat a great deal in one way or another. I will end here from the Radical Left and say that we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125551	Then there are some comments. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125554	Thank you. Now, of course, we have a wide range of different labelling schemes to make it easier for consumers to choose, but in this case, does the rapporteur think that a whole lot of studies must be carried out in order to be able to access or opt out of what they want to buy? Why can't you feel this in a similar way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125618	I therefore agree with the Minister that today we have a labelling circus and that we actually need to simplify our labelling schemes in general. The whole thing about halal marking this meat, I think I have actually explained in the rapporteur's speech why we do not think it is specifically a good idea; and basically, there is no such demand. To the point of being in doubt about what you eat or not, I just want to say: Welcome to the world of vegetarians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125647	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125648	I would now like to continue eating meat and not having to choose to be a vegetarian in order not to buy halal-certified goods. Now the rapporteur says that the companies are marking the goods for export purposes, and that is also true, but they are precisely marking all the goods, and those used on the Danish market are, after all, very much halal certified, even though consumers do not demand halal certified goods. So the argument that it only goes for export does not hold true. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125721	I had a tiny bit of trouble hearing it, so the rapporteur will have to bear with me if I didn't get it all. But if it is the case that our consumers are asking for meat that is not halal, then they have the opportunity to do so, and then companies can go in to produce that product, but that demand is just not there, we can see. That because you walk... sorry! Now my time has passed, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125749	It may be that Mrs Mette Thiesen can supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125753	I can add as much as to say that the rapporteur at least skilfully spoke out of it. It should not surprise anyone that the Radical Left has this approach. You guys live in such a cheese bell. I think we're back around the 1990s before reality, like, dawned on people about Islam. But I just do not understand the argument and that the Radical Left is so prejudiced that the Danes must be kept in the dark. They simply must not be told. Because, as a consumer, we are researching just as much as the rapporteur from the Left mentioned earlier, so there are some products that we have very, very difficult to find out if they are halal certified. As my colleague mentioned earlier, this is not just about meat. It is also all sorts of other things, for example. Toblerone is halal certified. I don't think any of us would think about it. Then the rapporteur does not sincerely believe that it would be fair enough for the Danes to know, when they went down to their supermarket, which products were halal certified, where there was thus a contribution to Islam and which products were not halal certified?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210125910	The thing about living in a cheese bell, I think, maybe in many ways, you could easily transfer this proposal from New Citizen. Because if there were a lot of people in Denmark who would like to have this hallmarking, then it could also be that New Citizens might have more support for this proposal out there in the general public. After all, we can see that there is no such thing as an increase in the population or a large group that has joined forces, or a huge organization of interests that is calling for this. On the contrary, all Danish business associations say that a halal marking would be expensive, that it would be heavy in administration and that it would hamper our exports. It would have been stupid on all sides for both the Danes and Danish companies and in relation to the world market, which we logically are part of, which New Citizens here somehow skilfully overlook.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130001	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130002	I simply have to stop the rapporteur right here. The Danes can't raise a resistance to this. They have no idea which goods are halal certified. It is absolutely impossible to see through as it is at present, so it is a total non-argument. How on earth can you say you're against buying a product if you just bought it without knowing this? So, the Danes do not know because it is not labelled because it is not clear which goods are halal certified. We are therefore wary of the Danes' right to know whether they are paying money to Islam or not. I understand that the Radical Left does not. They do not believe that the Danes should be allowed to buy on an enlightened basis. The rapporteur has just exemplified this. But I just have to correct the rapporteur and say that the reason why we are here today is that there are really, really many Danes who have no idea that many of the goods they buy are halal certified.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130057	When Muslim organisations go in and verify a halal marking of this, the money will be paid by consumers in the countries they come from. They are not paid by the Danes. Those are the facts. That claim has been tampered with several times, including by Detector, so I also think that the rapporteur should recognise that there are some facts there. Something else that I would like to say, if you are to see it from the public's side, is: if there is really such a need for it here in the consumer's side, why not try to call for a citizen's proposal on it and see if you can actually get 50,000 signatures for it? It could actually be interesting. In fact, we in the Radical Left would respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130139	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130143	Thank you. It is simply not true when the rapporteur says that only the goods leaving the country are paid for. All food companies at home pay an annual fee for being involved in halal certification schemes at all. Danpo has been the only one who has reported that they pay about 100,000 kroner. Every year for this. In addition, a man has been employed to pray over meat, and that is something for an equal opportunities rapporteur, because it has to be a man who asks it cannot be a woman. So that this is only done by exporting is simply not correct. That is a false trade description, I would have liked to say, so I would like the rapporteur to take that back. After all, we've been looking into this. And with regard to demand, I would just like to say that there is, of course, a country organisation for this, where you try to find a head and a tail in what is halal and not halal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130252	Now I was talking about the World Muslim Organization, and they are in the picture here because they verify the export part. It is quite right that in order to get a hallmark out in the slaughterhouses, religious associations or congregations must also be approved in order to do so, plus that there must be someone praying over this meat, and that is simply the way it is going. If we just took it out of the equation and said it wasn't done for the argument could also be that it costs the meat then the meat would just be expensive, because then we wouldn't actually have the opportunity to export it. That we have this halal slaughter of meat, according to the industry, i.e. Agriculture & Food, Danpo etc., actually helps to keep the price of e.g. chicken meat very, very low because it is precisely that way that they can become part of a global market. So a long way along the way it is certainly an economic good idea. And if you don't want halal meat, you can buy it from the Zealand slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130355	Mrs. Lise Bech.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130356	It is true that many of the large slaughterhouses, both chicken slaughterhouses and cattle slaughterhouses, feel that way, but then they could just feel it so that the rest of us could try to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130417-2	Yes, they can do that, so I would suggest that you as a consumer go to the company and say: I will only buy it if it is not halal-slaughtered. There's nothing talking like the wallet. So let us finally get the consumers out of here so that they can make that demand, and then we can see if it can get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130435	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130438	That, however, was the most miserable answer I have heard for a long time. Well, you can't be serious. I thought that the Radical Left were such people who were in favour of information and consumers' free choice and something like that. After all, consumers are not told what they are buying. There are popular organisations that oppose halal certification and against Islamisation of Denmark. I know that the Radical Left is strongly in favour of the abolition of Denmark and probably also of Islamisation; but to oppose the fact that we have a labelling system, that consumers have knowledge of what they are buying, is the most arrogant thing I have heard for a long time. It should be clear that people must have as much knowledge as possible about what they buy. And if they buy something that supports Islamic missions through their purses, they must of course be given the opportunity to resign and thus support others who do something else. But you do not know it as long as there is no labelling. Is the rapporteur opposed to informing the consumer of what they are buying?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130545-2	No, we're not really. If it was the fundamental question whether we are against informing consumers, then the answer is no. But I actually think that this information is very, very freely available. It's extremely easy to focus on what's up and down in this whole halal marking discussion if you care about it as a consumer. So, to me, there is really no problem with public education in this context. What is perhaps a problem is that we have to spend time discussing this over and over again when I think that the arguments for rejecting it are queuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130625	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130625-2	It is only a pity that the rapporteur has not been able to find a single convincing argument, so that line is very, very short, and that is on the platform, I can hear. But it is a very haughty approach to consumers. So think about saying the same thing to people who care about gluten. They know all about what is gluten in, so why should we put a mark on it. It makes many manufacturers, they make a labelling of gluten-free products. It is good service to people, although people who are gluten allergic to God often have a very, very good understanding of it. Why can't you do the same here? It is so important, and I think it is gross to the general consumer that this information will not be provided. It is really strange that we are trying to argue for it, because we are not doing it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130716-2	I mean, it's actually a really, really good example of labelling gluten because it's actually something that we haven't used at all, i.e. we haven't managed in here from the Folketing. We have never had a finger in gluten legislation; it is something that is one hundred percent a matter between consumers and businesses and producers and retail trade. So I actually think somewhere else that if this is really an expression of such a great need, let the interest organisation that the Danish People's Party also talked about get to grips with this and see if it is really going on land, i.e. whether there are companies and retail outlets that think it is a good idea to go that way. I don't think we should go into detail on this from inside Christiansborg... it's gotta be between them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130757	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130800	I think Mrs Kathrine Olly was absolutely right when she said that this would be an expensive element for many companies. For it is clear that if it were found that a tube of toothpaste from Colgate and makeup from some French producers and other products, which most people consider to be completely secular, were halal certified, then I think there are a lot of consumers who would choose it from. I think that if you had compulsory halal labelling, many would say: No, of course I will not support dark propaganda from the Middle East, just as the Radical Left is trying to do. But what is the matter here is why it is not really part of religious freedom, which I understand the radical tributes, to be at peace with the religion of others? Well, I don't know if Mrs. Kathrine Olladag is an atheist, as her many fellow party members are, but if she is, couldn't it be nice that you could opt out of supporting religious associations that you don't subscribe to? And is it not generally a very good radical starting point that you are not only allowed to believe in what you want, but also to be at peace for what others believe in?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210130913	There are many things that it might be nice to be at peace for when you move around in society that is so you could choose from and to choose, but because we live together in a society where there must be room for everyone who is our starting point, there is also a small limit. And if I were to want a piece of chicken someday, it would just be quite indifferent to me whether it was halal-slaughtered or not, when I have read up on what it really means to be halal. I think it sounds extremely peaceful. I would be more concerned about whether it was organic or not, because there are enough values there. Then there are many things in everyday life that I might actually want to be free of. Now I know that sir... Morten Messerschmidt cares a lot about Christianity, but I think there are many Christian things that I think it might be nice to choose from; but we can then take another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131002	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131003	It is interesting here, because the Radical Left is usually a party that is extremely concerned that people should have the opportunity to cultivate their religious views, dressed as they think a god has asked them, yes, in every way possible. And normally the Radical Left is also a party which pays tribute to the fact that one does not believe, i.e. science, progress, etc., écrasez l'infâme, as Brandes quotes infinity. But just when it comes to this issue, the Radical Left insists that consumers, the Danes, must be in ignorance, so that, contrary to their will, they can support religious movements and propaganda for those whom they do not want. That is a very strange interpretation of radicalism, for which Mrs Kathrine Olly represents.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131056	In fact, I think we have examined very clearly why it is that this labelling will actually work very badly in practical reality or in functional activity. There are both economic considerations and, of course, there is also the fact that we are not interfering with religious considerations. This is about food labelling and neither about foreign policy nor religious considerations. So for us to see, this is a matter of there being such a small limit when we talk about what it is we have to put up with and not have to put up with and it is simply exceeded here. Well, we're just rejecting this proposal for the reasons that the Minister has also highlighted and no longer is it really.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131136	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radicale's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131146	Thank you. Several similar proposals have been made on this matter in the past. I think this is the third time we have been discussing a proposal of this nature. Actually, I remember the first time we treated one of these. I ended up getting a little praise from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, because I was relatively open to consumer information, and that is actually still my point of view. I mean, I think it is important that consumers have insight into what they are buying. I also think that there are valid arguments: if you want to opt out of halal meat for religious reasons, it must also be easier to do so. In other words, the Minister has also stressed that this is something that needs to be resolved within the European Union and that a labelling system has no time on land. So I really hope that the proposers who are will work on how we can ensure better consumer information in general in a different way than by going in and creating a specific labelling system. Moreover, I would also like to remind you, in relation to labelling schemes, that a labelling system could be set up for a great many things, and then it is about what you think is very central. There are, for example: It is my experience that many consumers want to choose products that are produced under good working conditions; it can also be very opaque, and one could work with that. I would just like to say that you will have to select a few things so that there is no requirement that there should be a thousand different brands on our goods, and there is probably less halal in my optics on the list of priorities. However, if you have any good ideas on how to ensure better consumer information in other ways, then the Socialist People's Party would like to consider it, because we really do think it is good that there is transparency for consumers in relation to the products they choose and opt out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131341	Thank you. I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur agrees that it must be easier to be a consumer if you want to make some choices. But I think this is a very serious area. When we look at animal welfare, it is the case that in other countries of the European Union there is halal slaughter without stunning, and those goods are sold in Denmark. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Now someone earlier suggested to me that I could just become a vegetarian, but I don't think that's a good solution for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131412	I think it's extremely bestial to slaughter animals without anesthesia. Well, there is no doubt about that, and if I ate meat myself, there is no doubt that I would opt out of that kind of slaughter method. However, this can also be investigated, because one can of course examine the country in which the meat is produced. So it is possible to access that information in another way, if that is something you are very concerned about, and I would urge you to do so. If, for animal welfare reasons, you do not want to buy meat from animals that are halal-slaughtered without stunning, then I think you should do what you can to avoid it, and that is something you can do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131448	But once again, it is very difficult if the consumer is to carry out those studies himself. It takes you to get into it and investigate a lot of things. Does the rapporteur not think that exactly what I am mentioning here is such a serious problem that we should set up a labelling system for halal meat?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131503	No, I don't think so. I think you can look into it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131512	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131513	I have to say once again that there is something deeply paradoxical about seeing the parties of the left, which are usually the most atheistic professing parties, being those who are most actively opposed to opting out of food products and other products which are actually blessed for religious reasons. After all, it is as if one has been so quick to please the Muslims that one has completely forgotten where one comes from. This is the happy madness. But I really want to say to Mr. Carl Valentin, whom I understand is vegetarian or vegan, or whatever it is, and peace be to it that I assume that Mr. Carl Valentin is aware that a lot of goods on the Danish shelves, which are not food, are now halal certified. It's cosmetic products, shampoos, toothpaste, etc. that I could have Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin suspected of using a little. That is why I would like to ask how he feels from his ideological point of view about the fact that when people trade these goods, they are in complete ignorance of whether they buy something that is just a regular product or whether they buy something that is halal-certified, and that in doing so money goes to organizations which, I believe, both Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Carl Valentin and I agree that we would rather not see much influence in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131632	After all, this isn't about pleasing Muslims, just like Mr. Thompson. Morten Messerschmidt says in the beginning. What we are saying here is that it is a little far to go to create a specific labelling system and that this is something that must be decided at EU level and not in the Folketing. With regard to all kinds of other products: I do not care so much whether a product has been blessed or not, i.e. whether a blessing has been made in connection with the slaughter of animals. I'm an atheist myself, and that's why the blessing doesn't mean anything to me. However, I am quite convinced, as the rapporteur points out, that some money may well end up in some places where I, as a consumer, am not really very enthusiastic about it. I think that is something that happens practically every day for all consumers, because there are so many products where it is difficult to be wise about their origins and because the capitalist economy is so arranged that it can be very, very complicated how a product has been created. That is why consumer information is a general challenge and not something that can be narrowed down to the fact that this particular area is so important that we need a specific labelling system precisely in the case of halal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131743	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131745	Then let us focus on the practicalities, for Mr. Carl Valentin says that the SF would like to work on this in the EU at least perhaps. I'd like to know if it's something like that, sir. Carl Valentin has talked to Mrs Margrete Auken about, because I tabled the proposal in the European Parliament when I had the privilege of serving in Brussels, and Mrs Margrete Auken was one of the most opposed to this. I think she thought it was something that scolded Muslims and so on, and I kind of agreed with that. I just thought it was a good thing, because I don't like halal certifications. But then I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin, whether the parliamentary group is at all in contact with the EP Group down in Brussels and has made sure that it is they who are fighting for consumers to know that money is being given to darkeners down in the Middle East when they buy a tube Colgate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131833	Well, what I said was not that we are in favour of a labelling system at EU level. What I said was that if you want a labelling system, it is at EU level that you have to work for it. And if you want better consumer information in Denmark, then you have to go other ways, and then the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party and other parties who are very concerned about it must put their energy into trying to see how we can ensure some consumer information that is not a definite labelling system, because then it may well be that the Socialist People's Party backs it if we think it has been arranged in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131904	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, nor from the Conservative People's Party, nor from the Liberal Alliance. That is why the time has come to give the rapporteur for the proposers the floor. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please. One moment, I now see the Conservative rapporteur. I would first like to give the rapporteur for the Conservatives the opportunity to come to the floor and ask the rapporteur for the proposers to stay ready for the next round. Sir. Marcus Knuth, please be within the foreman's field of view when you need to speak. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210131950	I'm sorry, President. And thank you for understanding. I wasn't aware that Enhedslisten and other parties weren't going on too. However, our view is in fact the same as what we meant not long ago when we had an almost identical debate. We fully understand that there are many people who would like to be able to opt out or opt out of halal products, i.e. if that is what you want. I'm not a huge fan of halal products myself. I have seen halal slaughter happen in the Middle East, and I also know that the way halal slaughter takes place in Denmark, although it is with stunning, is something that many do not think is optimal either. So we are very much in favour of some kind of labelling. But of course we are also aware that we are working with other EU countries, and that is why a mandatory labelling system would have to be negotiated with other countries of the European Union. It would be good for us if it were the case that the whole of the European Union supported it. That is why I think we have actually made some very good steps in the right direction. Last time we debated this, both the Social Democrats, the Left and other parties opened up the possibility of a voluntary labelling scheme, in the same way as with other animal welfare labelling schemes that already exist today. And if we saw, for example... If we could get the FDA to administer it, we would be taking a step in the right direction. It is very important to say to what we hear from the Radical Left and from the SF that there is no demand at all for halal marking, that we do not know because there is no halal marking, as is currently the case. So a voluntary scheme could actually clarify how much demand there is. I think there's gonna be a lot of it myself. And it could perhaps be a step towards a more extended form of labelling. So that's where we Conservatives stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132156	Thank you so much. I was a little worried when I heard the first part of the rapporteur's speech, but at least the rapporteur got a little bit on the right track and thanks for that. I would actually like to hear the rapporteur's views on the Conservative People's Party when we talk about all products that are halal certified, so that it is not just the meat we are talking about, but all goods that are halal certified. Does the Conservative People's Party then have the same attitude? In that case, I would be delighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132227	To be honest, what we have discussed is halal marking in relation to slaughter, and there are two aspects to this. There is animal welfare, that is, the slaughter method itself, and then there is the religious one, that is, whether we should have products in Denmark, or whether we should be able to opt out of products that have been slaughtered after an Islamic ritual. So I would say that we have taken a position on the slaughter itself, and that is also what is most important for us as a party. Now I heard the rapporteur mention Toblerone before, and we have simply not discussed that in our group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132255	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132257	No, but then I would like to welcome the fact that, hopefully, the rapporteur has heard the debate and has become wiser so that the rapporteur can go back to his group and discuss it here. Because, of course, it makes no sense for consumers to act blindly and inadvertently to buy products where some of the money goes to the spread of Islam. I hope, of course, that the rapporteur agrees with New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132322	As I said, we have discussed the slaughter method and that is what we are focusing on in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132328	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132333	This voluntary scheme sounds very reasonable, but in reality I think it is a little windy and air-freecadler, since what will make this labelling scheme different from all other labelling schemes is that a halal certification will probably make people choose products from where it is usually when we talk about ecology, environment, labour market conditions, or what I know is something that makes people choose the product. So what on earth would get Colgate, chicken producers, or what do I know, to choose it for, if it is voluntary, when the whole idea is that people who want to be at peace with Islam should be able to choose their products from? It just doesn't make any sense to me, sir. Marcus Knuth, and that's why Mr. Marcus Knuth simply reassures me because I am sure that he has thought more than I have apparently been able to since he has put forward his proposal and explain how a voluntary scheme should get manufacturers to put labelling on so that we, who will be at peace with Islam, can choose from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132440	After all, we are fortunate to be enriched with Mads Birde's presence today, and he is a living example of a Dane who has gone out and has searched for products that are not halal butchered and has not been able to find it. I am also convinced that if I stand in front of a cooling disc and can choose between a halal-slaughtered chicken and a non-halal-slaughtered chicken, then I will always choose the one that is not halal-slaughtered. For us, too, it is just politics in the real world. If, as a first step, we can have a voluntary scheme so that those of us who would like to opt out of halal products can do so, then it is far better than I was going to say to do nothing. The rapporteur is also well aware that even if we adopt something here, it has to go through Brussels first and then nothing happens, so let us take the first realistic step as a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132528	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132530	I still do not understand what should make producers voluntarily label their goods when they know that for 95 per cent. of the Danish population will mean that it will make them choose it from or at least consider choosing it from. After all, only the Muslims will positively choose it, and they are at present. of the population or around there. As far as Brussels is concerned, I just want to know if Mr. Marcus Knuth has talked to Mrs Pernille Weiss about this recently, because we are happy to retable the proposal in the European Parliament together with the EPP Group. It's gonna make us get really, really far. I fought for 10 years to get the EPP group to support this. So can we count on Mrs Pernille Weiss in the European Parliament to take part in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132608	What we have said here is that if this is to be implemented, it must be implemented across countries, and that is where we point to the Minister and say that we will be pleased if the Minister wishes to promote it here in Brussels on behalf of Denmark. I am sure that there are many other countries where we actually have the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132625	Thank you, therefore, to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it was time to welcome the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132637	Thank you for that, and it was wonderful that we also managed to get Conservatives kicked in here in the debate. Halal certificates are a money machine for Islamic organisations and a tool for the spread of Islam. Every time a product gets halal stamped, money goes to Islamic organizations. Neither I nor anyone else has a choice. We're forced to pay because we can't choose the goods from. I and New Citizens will not decide what people in this country believe in and how they practice their religion as long as they keep it within the law, but Islam must have no influence on society. Islam is in direct opposition to the values on which we have built our society. Islam is in opposition to freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of the people. The more space you give to Islam in a society, the less room there will be for freedom and democracy. That's why Islam needs to be pushed into the private world. Muslims are allowed to practice their religion, but Islam should not affect social life. We in the New Citizens' Party are making this proposal today in order, in this way, to reduce the amount of Islam in this limited area. This is not a ban on Islamic certified products, but it is a labelling system, not for the sake of Muslims, but for the sake of consumers who agree with me that we do not in any way wish to contribute to strengthening Islam in Denmark and elsewhere, either through taxes to Islamic organisations or by agreeing with a knee-down to Islamic laws. Therefore, halal goods must be clearly labelled so that we can say no to Islamic influence in our free society. I note that some lawyers believe that we should not do so for the European Union. I am not convinced that the European Union will take action against Denmark on this. So, of course, my request must be that it should come to a test. I am already quite tired of Danish politicians parking the right to decide in our own country in Brussels, and if the European Union really does not think that the Danes should have the opportunity to opt out of Islamic influence, then perhaps it is time for us to resign. Others will probably argue that this is a hassle and a hassle for producers. I would then suggest to the producers that they deduct the costs from the labels from the tax they pay to the Islamists in order to obtain the certificate. Then the Islamists have less money to do harm with, and Danish consumers are given the opportunity to opt out of halal. That's what we call a win-win. Then I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you to the Danish People's Party for supporting our resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210132928	We are very happy to support a motion for a resolution which one looks like something we have tabled a few times over the last 25 years. What amazes me a little is why we are so far down the ladder compared to what Mr. Peter Seier Christensen makes his speech. In other words, why not ban the transfer of money at all to countries where halal certification often brings the money? That would be more obvious. Why is it only meat products that New Citizens want to ban when we know that a lot of cosmetic products and everything else are also being certified today? I can't believe it's because you don't have an eye for it, because then I'd know mister. Peter Seier Christensen badly. So why is it that this proposal deliberately hits such a small area of the problem of Islamization? Is it because 90 mandates have been hoped for so that we can get it through? Or what is the thought behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133025	Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt did not follow the debate from the outset, because I actually started by saying that we are tabling an amendment to our own resolution so that it is not just about meat but about all halal-halal-certified products.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133039	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133041	But could it not be more useful if what this is all about for both us in the Danish People's Party and for Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, is stopping money transfers, so simply forbid it? In other words, we are talking a lot about the government's making a proposal which forbids, for example, that one. from Saudi Arabia finances Danish mosques. What about both doing it and doing the opposite, that is to say, saying that we simply do not want one to have as part of a consumer purchase, without the consumer knowing it, to be obliged to transfer money to these regimes and to attack it in that way? Is it something where we could collaborate between New Civil and Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133119	That sounds interesting to me if we can't get through with it this way. So I definitely think we should talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133155	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133210	Thank you to the authors of this motion for a resolution. I am always pleased to have an opportunity to discuss openly what values we want to apply to our society. I really regard this resolution as an opportunity for such a debate. Having said that, I would also like to say straight away that the government cannot support this specific resolution banning halal-certified meat in public institutions. Halal certification is a private scheme that private companies themselves choose to choose from, and this is something that we have not publicly regulated in Denmark. I do not know exactly what the money from halal certification is going to do, but I cannot rule out the fact that the world view of the organisations issuing the certifications differs significantly from my own. In my optics, however, this does not mean that we should simply ban the purchase and serving of halal-certified meat products in public institutions here from Christiansborg. As I understand it, such a ban will also raise a wide range of questions and considerations of a legal nature. It will therefore include, among other things: raise questions as to how a prohibition could be designed, where appropriate, to enforce it, including how compliance could be demonstrated and whether a ban could be implemented in accordance with procurement rules. I understand the proposers' desire to prevent tax dollars indirectly from supporting organisations that do not share our values. Fortunately, we already have legislation on terrorism, which means that it is illegal directly and indirectly to support terrorist activities and, according to the Constitution, associations can be dissolved if they act by violence. The government has also recently tabled a bill on anti-democratic donations to prevent natural and legal persons from working against democracy and fundamental freedoms by giving donations. This also applies to government authorities from abroad and government-controlled organisations and companies. This does not, of course, mean that we have completed the work and forever guaranteed democracy and our fundamental freedoms. There is probably an ongoing need to have a discussion like the one we are taking today and constantly asking ourselves whether further action is needed. Because we must never stop paying attention to and talking about how best to protect a free and open democratic society from anti-democratic and extremist tendencies. Finally, in the view of the government, we must be careful that the discussions develop into a general criticism of a particular religion, specifically Islam. We are fighting against extreme versions of Islam and anti-democratic forces. At the same time, we must not be naive and underestimate the challenges we face, and that is the balancing that is difficult but requires debate. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133511	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133516	Thank you so much. Following that, my colleague, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen said to our previous proposal, we have also chosen to extend this proposal so that it does not only apply to halal-certified meat, but also to all halal-certified goods and products. These are ingredients and, as one rapporteur said earlier, there are also a great many other products in general. Does the Minister honestly not think that when you are in a public institution, whether it is in a public school, in a hospital or somewhere else, you should not, by buying food or by eating food, actively contribute to the spread of Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133601	I would like to start by saying that I think it is sensible for you to table this resolution, because, of course, if gum gum is halal certified, it should be included on an equal footing in the discussion with, for example, Mr President. halal-certified chicken meat. So I think that makes sense. Then I am also convinced that public procurement policy can also be used to influence certain trends in society. For example: I myself have been in favour for many years of the fact that when the government deals with private companies with a contract sum above a certain size it is reasonable that those companies have also taken pupils and trainees. And it is now part of the state's procurement policy. I also know that some municipalities, for example. It is a question of whether organic purchases should be made. In this way, of course, it is possible to try to influence the development of society through government or local purchasing policies. But I also believe that we need to be extremely careful about how many areas we are expanding it to, because shopping in the public sector is becoming more and more complicated. That is why it must also be weighed up against what the effect is, and I do not really see any need for this specific resolution to be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133708	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133710	But the point is that when you shop outside public institutions, as the Minister rightly says, you also buy products that are halal certified, thereby contributing financially with Danes money to the spread of Islam. This means that when you are in a public institution, for example. buys food from a public food scheme or is generally in a public institution. Well then you are also subject to it here, and then you actually contribute to it. So, does the Minister not really think that it is okay for the Danes to insist that when you are a public institution, then of course you should not contribute to the spread of Islam and that you should be able to be sure that, for example, the food you consume is not halal certified?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133756	Maybe I'll deal with this a little bit more in practice. I read in connection with the preparation for this debate an article that 98 per cent. Of all chicken meat in Denmark, halal was slaughtered. I hope that the kids in the day care centre also get chicken meat once in a while, and if that is to be possible, then it will probably be too difficult if they have to steer around all the places where it is halal certified. And I understand that some abattoirs, if they want to sell to the Middle East, are catching up on halal certification. So I guess I'm most concerned that if there's cash flows financing terror, we're dealing with it in the legislation we already have. And that also means that if money goes from some of these institutions to terrorist organisations, then the existing legislation should of course be able to accommodate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133850	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133852	I think it is an incredibly narrow aim only to focus on whether or not there is money going to terror. In other words, it goes without saying that it is already contrary to EU rules, Danish rules, etc., if you fund terrorism. What is at stake here is that halal certification has become a billion-dollar industry, not to commit terror in the traditional sense, but to wage a war of darkness against the West, i.e. to spread Islam, to fund mosques, to finance cultural houses, to influence opinion-formers, etc. That is, of course, the problem with this, Minister, and that is why it is a problem that although the Minister acknowledges it is not the recognition that is a problem, but that he will not do anything about the acknowledgement that 98 per cent. of Danish chickens are halal-slaughtered, there is no response to it. That is why I would really like to hear, as a follow-up to some of the written questions I have put to the Minister over the last year, whether the Minister actually has any idea of how many products are not just meat products, but also cosmetics and other things in an average Danish supermarket that is actually halal certified.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210133956	Finally, I can say very clearly that I have no idea. I don't know if that shampoo, that bag of gummy, or whatever you're buying down in Føtex, is halal certified. I have also been following this debate for a few years, and now the questioner specifically says that there is a billion industry, and I can see that an article in Kristeligt Dagblad from 9 November shows that Agriculture & Food estimates that Danish companies are paying 1-2 million overall. kr. a year for halal certifications. How much other than administration can be purchased for the 1-2 million. kr., I dare not predict, but it is probably not a billion-dollar industry and mosque building that comes out of it. That is also why I am trying to appeal to the fact that if money goes to terrorism or to other things that are contrary to our democracy and undermine our people's rule, then, for example, we must. regulate it through the penal code. I do not want to start drawing too much bureaucracy down on the purchasing policy of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134057	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134058	Halal certification is a billion-dollar industry. It is clear that it is not Denmark It's a billion-dollar industry. And so the Minister will not do his part to ensure that we in Denmark do not contribute to this Islamization, which among other things. emanates from Saudi Arabia and elsewhere in the Middle East. That's deeply disgraceful. He does not even bother to investigate how many goods there are then actually halal certified around Denmark. Could it really be imagined that during the Cold War, if Russia had in this way had had economic interests in the goods that were traded in Føtex, Bilka, Netto, and what do I know, just hated us back and said: Well, peace be with it? Of course not, and therefore it is deeply shameful that we have a capitulated government in this war with Islamism that we find ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134145	What I said was that I don't know if the gum I can buy in Føtex is halal certified. Whether the government wants an investigation to be made into it, you must ask the minister who has just been on the platform before me if I would not like to interfere. The questioner then says that it will not do anything about the insidious influence that is happening from among other things. from some countries in the Middle East. To that I would say: yes, I would like to, just not in this way. However, the second legislative proposal I mentioned in my speech on donations from anti-democratic forces is precisely an attempt to stem that. I just think it's more effective, and that's why my focus is there and not here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134229	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134244	Thank you. With this resolution, new citizens are proposing to ban the purchase and serving of halal-certified meat products in public institutions. Halal certification is a private labelling scheme and it is up to companies themselves to decide whether to use halal certification and thus pay for it. In other words, Halal certification is not an administrative matter and therefore it is not publicly regulated either. At the same time, we already have legislation to ensure that, for example, we are able to do so. cannot support terrorist-related organisations and similar financially. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party do not believe that there is a need for a ban on halal products in public institutions. The background to the resolution is a desire to combat political Islam, but we believe that in this case we miss the dial. On the other hand, we are in the process of tightening up when, for example, we do so. For example, undemocratic donations, negative social control and other things, which unfortunately take up too much in certain parts of Muslim parallel societies. Social democracy does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134342	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134346	That's a boring thing for Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund here, who in general, I think, is regarded as a tighter in social democracy. This is both compromising and revealing, because it is about something that we all have in common: our public institutions. I can't believe that sir. Rasmus Stoklund, who has a fine reputation, will nevertheless be on the goal that when we send our grafts, whether in nursery, kindergarten, school, or where it is, parents should not have the opportunity to say: No, no, no, we will not support Islam through the food being served. It is indeed disgraceful and especially for a party which, on the outside, is trying to appear as those who want to have a strict immigration policy and so on. That's very shameful. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund: What is his answer to the parents who just want to be at peace with Islam when their children sit down at the dinner table in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134442	Now I was so flattered by the first part of the question, but to the last part of the question I think I will say something in the sense of "and now I have to be careful, because I am not as strong as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: Do you not believe that what enters the body cannot poison you, for it does not enter the heart, it enters the stomach, and it comes out again. It's a quote from Jesus. That is why I know that cultural Christians and Christians, even very Christians, do not take so much of what they eat. That is why I do not believe that most cultural Christians are the most important citizens in Denmark, and it is they who would take it so much if their children had a meal where a halal product was included in the menu. So that's my answer to these parents I haven't met. And I wonder whether the demand for these labels, which we also discussed in the previous resolution, is as great as it is being made and whether it is actually present at all. I can be very doubtful about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134543	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134544	In terms of size, I can say. that a few years ago Kristeligt Dagblad has estimated the global turnover for halal certification at 9,000 billion. kr., and it is based on figures from 2018. I think that is a very large amount of money, and there can be a lot of propaganda for Islam and Islamism for that, and here we had the opportunity at least to stop the part of the contribution that comes from Denmark, and it is fun to hear Mr. Rasmus Stoklund quotes from the New Testament as a defence of why one should accept Islam on the lunch table for children. For it might be that it was not Christians who opposed it; it might be that they were so strong in their beliefs that they did not really care about it, but it could also be atheists. So, what's sir? Rasmus Stoklund's answer to the atheists, whose children are thus forced to eat food that is blessed and finances the spread of Islam? It could be that the atheists also wanted to be at peace with Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134643	First of all, on the scale: I do not question that. There are, after all, well over 1 billion Muslims in the world, so of course this is a big economy internationally and especially abroad. However, I do not think this has much to do with the matter in Danish day care institutions. Secondly, in the best of all worlds it is perhaps true that if, in relation to any choice we made and any thing we made, it could be complete enlightenment about it, it would be preferable. But that's not the way the world is. It is not, of course, in any area, and it is not, as far as the working conditions of the companies that have supplied the furniture to the kindergarten are concerned, or what I know, and all the other products that are being served in this kindergarten. Personally, I have to say that the most important thing for me is animal welfare, and that part has been taken into account. For this, the former Social Democratic Government secured in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134730	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134734	Thank you. There is always something paradoxical about hearing a Social Democrat speak against state regulation. It is not usually your biggest force and one chooses to do so in such an area as is so important, and that is, of course, regrettable. After all, when you have your child in a day care institution or you are in hospital or something else, you don't eat food where money has gone to support Islam. We think it is right and proper that Islam should not be financed by the state in this way. Like the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, has said, he often and at least outwardly speaks a lot as though he is a tighter in this area, and therefore I am extremely surprised that the rapporteur does not think it is very real that Danes, both those who are hospitalized, who have their children in a daycare institution, etc., and elsewhere, should not be forced to feed Islam. Why do the Social Democrats really think the Danes should?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134848	First of all, I have to thank you again for the flattery. Well, I can barely stand for that, both from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Mrs Mette Thiesen, even if everything in it should not be completely sincere. But in relation to the other, I also think that the paradox goes the other way. For now we also had the second resolution just now, and New Citizens usually speak against increased bureaucracy and against increased rules and against regulation etc., and both in the context of the present proposal and in the context of the previous proposal perhaps I have to admit that the consequence would be the loss of both growth and jobs and exports to Denmark, i.e. for something which, in my opinion, is out of proportion and where I find it difficult to see the problem, not least because, as I know, there is not really a demand in the population for this. If so, then any company was free to start branding their products and export products without labelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134945	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210134946	Well, that's the kind of absurd argument you're using now. How on earth should the Danes know how many products are halal certified when you do not feel them? It is extremely difficult to find a way around, and I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur does not believe that it is important that the Danes do not contribute to Islam. In fact, I thought the rapporteur meant that. In any case, the rapporteur has expressed this in the past, but it can be understood that the rapporteur did not really mean it, at least not when it comes to it, and I think that is really a pity. I think that the social democracy here should take responsibility and ensure that when you are in a public institution, if you have a child in a public day care institution or if you are in a hospital or something else, you do not inadvertently get Islam stuffed in your throat. But I understand that the Social Democrats will not ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135038	I have to hold on to the fact that I also think it is a little disproportionately. It is not a demand that I have recorded, I have not experienced any popular feeling that there should be labelling of these things. In the Social Democratic Party we like market forces when they are just regulated and are going on and playing themselves out on some orderly terms, and I think they do that in this case. Because every company is free to start branding if there is a need from consumers to know whether a product is halal certified or not. But that demand does not seem to be out there, and that is why I see no reason why we should start creating a demand that does not really exist in the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135120	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135123	Thank you. The rapporteur and I usually agree on a great deal, but I simply do not agree with the rapporteur that there is no demand out there. Now we hear that Mads Birds have asked for it; I am asking for it, and several other colleagues are asking for it. So I think that at least a voluntary scheme administered by the FDA would be a good step in the right direction, because then we who want to opt out of halal products actually have the opportunity to do so. And that is also what came out of the discussion that was the last time we discussed this. Unfortunately, I cannot remember whether it was the rapporteur here or whether it was another Social Democrat rapporteur who was on, but there opened up a voluntary scheme to the Social Democratic Party, so I hope that the Social Democratic Party will continue to support it as a first step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135205-2	Well, I think there's something paradoxical about this way of seeing a number of politicians from the blue block make an effort to lay stones in the shoes of Danish business and Danish food producers. Because if the food industry, which consists of private companies, saw that there was the demand that several of the blue rapporteurs are expressing today, to the same extent as the rapporteurs say, then the food industry would not hesitate to start making products that were not halal certified and sell them in supermarkets. But that demand seems to be greater in this Parliament than it is out there, where life is playing out in the kingdom, and that is why I may find it a little difficult to see the need and the need to fit market forces in such a way that, after all, we tend to confess to in most of the food discussions we have, well to notice when animal welfare, food safety and so on. is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135312	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135313	But frankly, the rapporteur is well aware that if you go into a Danish supermarket, you cannot opt out or opt out of halal products. After all, we cannot do what we are doing right now, so we must therefore have a voluntary scheme that is actually widespread so that we can see the extent of it. Can the rapporteur not support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135333	I have done so both when we dealt with the last resolution, and also now, and also when we dealt with it at the beginning of December. In other words, there is nothing in the way that the food industry can simply create a voluntary labelling scheme that they can use. It is entirely up to them; they could do it from tomorrow morning, if they wanted. Therefore, I do not understand this need among the blue rapporteurs to create a new layer of bureaucracy here on the part of the Folketing, because the food industry could just start on it. There is complete freedom to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135406	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135410	Thank you. Yes, the bread was now almost taken out of my mouth on the previous issues, but I would just like to point out that it is a little funny that the Social Democracy has now become such a wild liberalist party, which worships market forces, and when market forces do not say that there is a large, broad popular movement for nonhalal, then there is no one, but I know very many, and I also know an organisation that is in favour of labelling halal meat and that we should not buy halal products in the public sector. So I would say that there are but ordinary consumers do not know what is halal and what is not halal, and that is why companies cannot really measure it on turnover, so because people do not see what one or the other is. But when you tell people what it is, the vast majority want to have the opportunity to choose some meat or other products that do not provide money for the Islamisation of Denmark. Then the rapporteur would not like to stop using those arguments that there is no popular movement, because that does not stop when you do not really have the opportunity to deliberately opt out of halal products because there is no compulsory regime and therefore you cannot really see whether it is halal or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135538	First of all, market forces: I have always been a great supporter of market forces. I believe that this is what is a large part of the background to • of course, along with a lot of other factors • that we have a well-developed and strong economy in Denmark. I am a strong supporter of market forces, and we are also in the Social Democratic Party; we are also in favour of them being harnessed where they come out of control. And that is where we sometimes have some disagreements about where one starts and where the other ends; when one should rein it and when one should not. In relation to this question, I just think it's weird what they say. If you had looked at another question, for example. Having looked at what consumers think of eggs from battery hens, one would see that it has been the case for many years that consumers have voted with their feet and gone to the supermarket and bought eggs from organic chickens. And that is why many people have kept caged hens, who have started to re-enter and now, instead of organic hens, have such a rough thing to say. The same applies here. In other words, if the companies saw that there was huge demand, as appears to be in the blue block here in Parliament today, for products without halal certification, then I am absolutely sure that they would start offering them. But that demand isn't there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135650	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135651	I simply do not think the rapporteur can say anything about this, and I think it is a distortion of the debate to say so. In other words, market forces only work under full information. That is the way it is and there is not full information. So, people do not know what is halal and what is not halal, because there is no labelling on all products. That's one. The second is that it can be really difficult to get through with the message that many of the money for halal certification goes to the Islamisation of Denmark. The people who are aware of this are highly prone to, or want, of course, to opt out of halal products. But the level of information is rather low, and it cannot be said that when market forces do not say that anything else should be produced, nothing else should be produced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135743	But I am going to repeat myself a little, because I simply do not agree. I believe that consumers are well aware that halal slaughter is widespread. That is also why the former Socialist Government ensured that animal welfare was at least in place, so that animals had always been drugged before, and so on. If there is this great demand among the rapporteurs from the blue bloc, who may be a little over-represented in relation to the population on this issue, then I would suggest to them that they organise a meeting with Agriculture & Food or others to lobby and encourage business to meet this demand so that they can buy these products if there is a wish. And then they have to judge whether they think there's business in it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135826	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210135840	Thank you for the floor. Today we are debating a resolution on a ban on halal-certified meat in public institutions, and this is, of course, a debate that we will have many times, and now we have it again, and there is good reason for that. This is an important issue, so thank you for raising the debate again. In the Left we find it very problematic if, for example, you pay to institutions such as the Muslim World League. Of course, we also find it problematic if it is public funds that go to this. This is problematic because the organisation has been linked several times to promoting anti-democratic action, and it is obvious that Danish institutions should not, of course, support organisations if they have such a purpose, and we would very much like to get rid of it. Even if we are not going to support this proposal, there are some aspects of this that are incredibly important to us. We simply do not want to see public tax dollars going to anti-democratic organisations, and the law on donations, which is presented later, is the clue we would like to go down in order to get rid of this very thing. When this debate is also important, it is because it is also about the fact that foreign food culture should not end up replacing Danish food culture. The concern for foreign food culture must not mean that traditional Danish food is chosen from, because there is some kind of political correctness in the institutions that makes you think that you are so on the safe side, because what we lose is part of our historical source, which lies in the food culture, which is a very important bearer of Danish traditions. That is why it is important for us to be able to choose something else, but we must also be able to choose halal-certified meat in those institutions if there is to be room for it. After all, this is not a matter for the Folketing to decide. It is a decision that must lie outside the individual institutions. It must be out there, you raise that debate. After all, there are already municipalities which have these discussions in the institutions. There are municipalities that have made legislation and regulations in this area, and we think that is very good, and several municipalities should keep up with that. It's not something we have to do in here. We must not decide whether to serve one or the other in kindergartens, nurseries, hospitals, nursing homes, etc. unless, as I mentioned at the outset, the money goes to the organisations we cannot support. Where there is a great deal of work to be done is to ensure that there are uniform rules in this area. The food sector is huge in Denmark. It translates for 650 billion. kr., and almost 200,000 Danes are employed in it. Many of these products we sell to countries that want something to be halal certified. And that is why I think that if we are going where I would like us to go, namely that we can look at a product, how it has been slaughtered, even when you are standing in the institution and having to deal with it, then we must lift this debate at EU level so that we demand that it is part of the EU's labelling rules that you can see how things have been slaughtered, so that we in Denmark do not stand out and risk Danish jobs for something that would have a greater effect if we did so together with others. That is where I really hope this debate will be held next time, not in this Parliament, but in the European Parliament. Having said that, I can tell you that we therefore understand a great deal of what was behind both the last resolution and what we are discussing here, but that the Left cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140252	I actually think that, uh... Mads Birded and I agree about the problem and its extent and character. The question is, of course, how we deal with the problem. Sir. Mads Fuglede, as former rapporteurs, mentions that this is, of course, a matter for the European Union. So it is natural, since both the Left and the Danish People's Party are represented in the European Parliament, to ask whether Mr. Mads Birded will be instrumental in bringing, for example, Mr. Søren Gade and Mr. Peter Kofod together in a joint initiative between our two groups. I can already give an indication that I will be asking Mr. Knuth on the same subject, because if we could also get Mrs Pernille Weiss from the EPP group, then it really is starting to look like something.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140337	I would very much like to be instrumental in this. I won't make any promises. As everyone knows, parliamentarians of the European Union are particularly self-employed and take pride in it, and they are difficult to get into something they do not want. However, I would very much like to convey such a meeting, and I would also like to hope that that agenda will be continued in that forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140359	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140400	That's a good start. Now, as you know, the European Parliament does not have the right of initiative, so the only thing that can be discussed is what is called an own-initiative report. But it'll be a really nice start if we can get this far. Could we also agree that if the European Parliament makes such an initiative, we will require the Danish Government to work actively to promote it in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140424	At any rate, we can agree that if you make an initiative in this forum that is mainly about getting some of the cash flows and an overview of those that we do not have an insight into, among other things. Muslim World League, then it is something we will very warmly support, so that we can get rid of the unbeing, that there are some who are paid by Danish consumers to provide a certification, and where the money then goes for purposes that we cannot see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140452	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140455	Thank you very much and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I assume that, as in the previous proposal, the Left also supports halal-certified goods in public institutions, and not just meat. I certainly hope so very much. The rapporteur also said that there is a need for uniform rules in this area. This is going to make uniform rules in this area. This will ensure that you can know for sure and that there are no public institutions where they implicitly accept that money is donated to Islam. Can the rapporteur not say a little more why the rapporteur does not think that this is the right way to make uniform rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140540	So, it must be the individual institution that chooses product on and off, and if we can ensure through the European Union that the products from which you can then choose are some where you can see how animals have been slaughtered, then it is a deliberate choice in the institution, instead of it being a choice where you may not have put yourself into what it is for a product you buy • whether you want to choose it for or from. That is why we believe it should be lifted up. We do not want to interfere in how to deal with the committee in individual institutions unless, as I mentioned in the paper, there is this definition of Danish food culture. Of course, we find this problematic. Then we would like to have the choice of pigs, i.e. to make that offer in the institution. But there must be an arm's length principle. We would like to take part in looking at labelling within the European Union. We don't want to get involved in the canteen in the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140630	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140632	I think that is a pity, but I also note that the rapporteur will, after all, fight a little for it in relation to the European Union too. I think that is a good thing. But can the rapporteur not confirm that these are not just halal-certified products? This is all about small things all the time, pearls on a string, namely how the Danes are just as quietly forced to incorporate Islam into Danish society. There are numerous examples of kneeling and bowing because it is just a small thing. Can the rapporteur not recognise that many pelvis small make a large creek?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140716	I think we should be very aware that when it comes to making products that are sold on a world market, as is the case with many Danish foods, they have to work out there. Therefore, I think that the whole idea of creating a perhaps voluntary labelling scheme, where you can get certified with the help of the Danish Food Authority here at home, so that you have products that are not halal-slaughtered so that Danish consumers can choose it, would be very fine. Products from Novo Nordisk are also made, so they are kosher, and there is a reason for that, and that is because they want to be active in a world market where they also want to be able to sell to Jews, for example. So we have to find that balance in these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140755	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210140806	Thank you for the floor. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, we must combat the Islamisation of Denmark wherever we meet it. That is why we are also pleased that New Citizens have retabled an old Danish People's Party proposal, namely that we should have a ban on using halal-certified meat in public institutions, as the proposal states. Of course, we warmly support this, just as we have done several times before, when we have tabled it ourselves. Because we do not want the public to support the Islamisation of Denmark. There are many reasons why you can be opposed to halal meat. It may be for animal welfare reasons, and it may be because one is critical of the missionation of Islam that is taking place for the money given for the certification itself. The certification or slaughter method itself does not destroy the meat, and as Christians, what most people are still missing in Denmark, you do not really care what has been said by strange formulas across a piece of meat while it has been slaughtered. It does not destroy the quality of the meat at all. But, of course, there is an animal welfare perspective, and then there is the fact that money is given to those who certify and that some of this money is channelled into mission activities in Denmark. That is very, very questionable. This means that when you buy your Saturday chicken, you dig your own grave. It helps to ensure that Denmark, as the country we know as a free country, is dismantled or is at risk of being dismantled. We think it is very, very wrong for the public to support this. That is why, in our opinion, both a labelling system that we talked about in the previous resolution must be set up and the public sector must buy the products that are non-halal, so as not to support further Islamic missionary work in Denmark and to support Danish culture, Danish food culture and slaughter culture instead of supporting the halal organisation. So, with these words here, of course, there is no doubt that the Danish People's Party supports the resolution before us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141102	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141154	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution here deals with a ban on the use of halal-certified meat in public institutions. In assessing it, it is appropriate to look further at halal slaughter. First, would it be reasonable to ask: Does the animal suffer? You can read more about this on, for example, the Agriculture & Food website or elsewhere where you know about it. No, the animal does not suffer by halal slaughter, for the animal is completely stunned prior to killing. The effectiveness of the stunning shall be checked, as in the case of traditional slaughter, and the animal shall be killed only when fully stunned. Secondly, the question might be asked: Does halal slaughter affect the quality of the meat? Here, too, you can read more on the Agriculture & Food website and other good places. No, there is no difference in quality between, for example, beef from traditionally slaughtered animals and beef from animals slaughtered after religious rituals, for example. halal slaughter or kosher slaughter. A third important question could be: does not halal slaughter affect food safety? Here too there is neither a problem nor a challenge. As there is no general significance in terms of animal welfare, quality, food safety, etc., the Radical Left sees no reason for such a ban in public institutions, and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141339	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's for sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141344	Thank you. I could not help noticing that the rapporteur says that the animals are not suffering and that halal slaughter is ethically completely okay because the animal is being drugged. I would now like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware of how the animal is being drugged. It will be by a blow to the brain with a so-called crash knucklecker, so that the animal is stunned by a massive concussion in the eyes of the goose. Now I myself got a new hip a year ago and I can promise the rapporteur that I am glad that I was not drugged with a crash knuckle. So does the rapporteur seriously believe that this is the most expensive way of drugging an animal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141420	I have full confidence in the organisations and others who work in these areas as their closest work. When Agriculture & Food and others say that there are no challenges in relation to animals suffering from halal slaughter, I have full confidence in it. I hope that the Conservative People's Party also has full confidence in Agriculture & Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141445	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141446	Now we're elected to this Parliament to have an independent attitude to things and to get to grips with things. I can only say that I hope that there will be a day when I can opt out of halal products for both religious and cultural reasons, but also because of animal welfare. So I would just like to urge the rapporteur to understand the way in which animals are drugged with this crash knuckle and concussion, because I do not think this is the best way to do things.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141512	Of course, we are bound solely by our own beliefs, but when the Radical Left or others build up professional beliefs, we look at who knows something in the various areas, and Mr. Marcus Knuth is very welcome to send his observations on this crash knuckle. Then it will be part of our deliberations. There is nothing too fine to be involved in our deliberations. Thank you for the input that we will of course take with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141540	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141543	Thank you so much. It is not because I am so surprised that the Radical Left will not support this motion for a resolution, although it would be nice if the Radical Left had become a little cleverer on Islam after incredibly many years. But does the rapporteur not also acknowledge that halal-certified meat is imported from abroad into Denmark and that foreign producers may not have the same way of halal-slaughtering and halal-certifying meat as in Denmark? Does the rapporteur really not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141619	First of all, thank you for pointing out that the Radical Left is sticking to its line. Of course, we do that in this question too. And when we see no basis for banning things, there is no reason to do so. That is why I am perhaps most surprised at the attitude of the new citizens, because it is a party which, in all sorts of other contexts, is in favour of no more state governance, no more bureaucracy and so on. However, when it comes to some products that New Citizens would particularly like to choose from, suddenly you are in favour of bureaucracy and state governance and more bureaucracy for companies. So we just have to say that New Citizens' policy is not entirely coherent. In relation to the question of whether imported products are halal-slaughtered: yes, it certainly does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141709	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141710	It is a good thing that the rapporteur acknowledges this after this very, very long album, which the rapporteur's colleague also put on and sneaked off in the past. It's pretty easy. But we have been elected to the Danish Parliament to save Denmark, quite simply, and this also applies, of course, when a broad political majority in the Danish Parliament unfortunately accepts that one is forced to, for example, through its grocery shopping to fund Islam; when children and young people in day care institutions and in the public school area and elderly people in public nursing homes or in hospitals are forced to eat food where a contribution has also been made to Islam does not the rapporteur think that it would be okay at least to say that there should be no halal certified products in public institutions, because, of course, as a Dane, one should have the opportunity to eat this food without having been paid for a specific ideology in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141814	It's kind of funny that the questioner is accusing me of forcing something. Those who want to force something through are, after all, new citizens who, with this proposal, want to impose a ban. That's the closest thing you get to doing something by force. In relation to what the rapporteur is asking, in other words, whether there is no free choice, I would say that there is, in fact, a free choice. It is that you can always ask the local butcher or others if this product is halal-produced, and then you can choose from it. So the free choice exists completely. And then the questioner makes a number of comments about what this is going to do. There I just note that the rapporteurs write in their own proposal that it is uncertain how much Danish companies pay and where these funds end up. That is what the proposers themselves write in the proposal, so that is how the premise in the question has disappeared.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141909	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210141912	I would like to admit to the radical rapporteur the complete consistency of radical policy. For the past 30 years, it has been known with surgical precision that the Radical Left is always on the side of Islam. A concrete example was in the election campaign where Mr. Kristian Hegaard invited me to his residential area in Kokkedal and invited me on, it was a falafel or something Middle Eastern in any case, and when suddenly, when we are standing there in the queue, it dawns on me that it, sir. Kristian Hegaard is about to lure me into eating, originating from a store that advertises that it is halal-slaughtered. It was only because of my own vigilance that I stopped and entered a neighbouring business so that I could get something that was in line with, I would say, my own ethics and Danish traditions. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Kristian Hegaard, when he tried and was so close to luring me into halal corruption: What is really his answer to the many parents whose grafts are sitting around in the day institutions and who may not be as vigilant as I was that day in the election campaign, and actually want to be free of Islam?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142027	Thank you for sir. Morten Messerschmidt went to Kokkedal in the election campaign. Unfortunately, I do not live there myself; I live in Humlebæk, so it is not exactly my residential area. But thank you for going to a wonderful area in the municipality of Fredensborg. I think, sir. The history of Morten Messerschmidt shows that there is, of course, a real choice: as a consumer one can choose from and on, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in the case in question, and everyone else is free to choose on and off. Therefore, one acts on an enlightened basis when one can ask freely how something might have been produced.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142102	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142103	But it is the opposite, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Because we dealt here half an hour ago with the question of whether, as a consumer, one should have the same privilege to know when a product is halal-slaughtered, as I became aware of that day, because it is evidently so common in the area in question in Kokkedal that one boasts about it on the front of the store chains. What we want is for us to have the opportunity to make the same choice that I made on that day, namely to say no to halal. That's what Mr. Kristian Hegaard wants it to be done as dullly for consumers as possible, whatever you do in private or have your small grafts in day care and can't quit. And I have to say that is bizarre, given the historical history of the Radical Left in relation to religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142144	But the essence is that you can choose on or off. If that is a wish as a consumer, you can ask, and you do as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did in the particular case, namely opting out. So in this way there are the full possibilities for it: you can ask your local merchant. And I can't think of anything more Danish than to visit your local merchant or your local butcher and have a dialogue with him and ask about the products, and if the question of halal slaughter matters, you can ask about it. I think that is wonderful in Danish society, that is to say we have some good local places, we can buy things and even ask for advice if there is something that consumers want more knowledge about.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142226	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142246	Thank you. We in the Socialist People's Party believe that it is completely disproportionate to want to go in and ban halal-certified products in all public institutions, and we do not believe that the Folketing should go in and regulate in this way. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142307	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur for the Enhedslisten present in the Chamber. On the other hand, I see the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142329	Thank you, President. I'm glad I could be here on time this time. I'll be very brief. I think I made our point quite clear last time. We think that the currents that have been in relation to working towards a voluntary scheme here in Denmark are really, really fine, also with the Danish Food Authority as an administrator, because then we can actually get an overview of what has been much questioned, namely what the real demand is from people who want to opt out of halal products. I believe that there is real demand and it will be a good thing for our consumers to have. And if, at the same time, we can get the Minister for Food to work under the auspices of the European Union for a more widespread regime in the European Union, that would also be a fine thing. Should we go in right now and ban halal flesh in public institutions? Well, the real world is that I think 98 percent. of all chickens are halal-slaughtered, so it would mean that there were very many Danes who could not have a chicken at all. We would rather take it as a step in the right direction and then have a voluntary scheme and at the same time work on a solution within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142444	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142449	That was a little weird mistrust of the market. In other words, if we made a scheme and the consumers did not want the halal-slaughtered chicken, it could be that some of the chicken producers just told the imam that you can stay home for today, because we are doing it Danish way. I now believe that the chicken producers would be well disposed to do so. What I want to ask, of course. Mr Knuth, on the other hand, is the follow-up to the question I asked Mr Knuth. Birds, i.e. whether we can count on a joint initiative of this kind by civil parties in the European Parliament. I don't know if sir. Knuth may have already been sent a message to Mrs Pernille Weiss, so that we are sure that we can count on her. After all, she has had considerations about immigration before, which I think lies somewhat far from Mr. Knuths, and that is why I would just like to know whether we can count on the Conservatives in this House as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142540	I remember that debate on the European Union, Mr. Messerschmidt and I were in Maribo. This was one of the debates I have spent the most time preparing for, because I know how much Mr. Messerschmidt knows about the European Union and about the Commission and about the European Parliament and about one and the other, and so I am not an equal legal expert on EU policy and law. To get to the heart of the matter, I do not know whether it is better for such an initiative to go through the Commission or through the European Parliament, but I would certainly like to take part in that dialogue and see how far we can go, regardless of whether it is the Minister who goes through the Commission or whether we go through the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142621	Sir. Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142622	I can just say so much that if mr. Knuth will sort out Mrs. Weiss, I'll sort out the procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142629	We Conservatives have full confidence in all our elected Members, regardless of whether you are on the city council or in the Folketing or in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142639	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Nor is there any rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. This means that it is now the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution who has the floor, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210142700	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. After all, it seems that it is moving something somewhere, although unfortunately there is no support for this proposal. But thanks to DF for backing up anyway. For Islam, there should be no influence in Denmark. And the food served in the Danish public day care institutions should have nothing to do with Islam. Islam should not be spread or financed by the public; that is how short it can be said. And that is why we in the New Citizens have chosen to table a resolution banning the use of halal-certified goods in public institutions. Halal fees are the money that Danish food companies pay to have their food halal certified. And so it is not only meat that will be about halal certified, but also ingredients, other foods and generally other products on the market. For example, 98%. of all chicken meat in Denmark halal butchered. Toblerone is also halal certified and many other products. Over the years, it is mainly two players who have dominated the issue of these export halal certificates at home. It is the World Muslim League at Frederiksberg, which has close ties with Saudi Arabia, and the Islamic Cultural Centre in the northwest district of Copenhagen. Both are recognized religions, and thus halal certificates have helped finance the operation of mosques at home. A halal industry has simply been created and, as another rapporteur said earlier in the debate: this is a billion-dollar industry. This is because, among other things, touching and indifferent politicians have accepted a practice that makes the Danes unwittingly support the spread of Islam through their purchases and the food they otherwise consume in public institutions. And when public institutions buy halal-certified products for food production, it is food that producers have paid a tax to Islamic organisations to certify. It is totally unacceptable for public institutions to support Islamic organisations in this way. Islam is in direct opposition to the values on which we have built our society. Islam is in opposition to freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of the people. And the more space you give Islam in a society, the less space there will also be for freedom and democracy. That's why Islam needs to be pushed into the private world. Islamic organisations must not, of course, be supported by public institutions; it is self-evident. As it is today, it is completely impossible for Danes to opt out of halal-certified goods and food produced from halal-certified products in the public institutions. One simply does not have an earthly chance to know whether the food one consumes is the cause of unwittingly making an economic contribution to the spread of Islam. You don't have an earthly chance to make sure you don't kneel to Islamic laws. And as there is today, the Danes really do not have a free choice; the Danes cannot choose freely in their own country. It needs to be changed. No special consideration should be given to Muslims. The Danes should not be forced to feed Islam. And I think it is quite obvious that Danish public institutions should in no way support Islam and that Danish public institutions should safeguard the freedom of the Danes. That is why New Citizens are proposing to ban the use of halal-certified goods in public institutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143043	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143120	The debate is open. We must first welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143127	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left is proposing to change the employment requirement in order to obtain permanent residence so that training can again be included in the calculation of this employment requirement. The party argues that the demand for full-time employment has some unintended consequences, as the provision maintains foreigners in an unskilled job rather than allowing them to take an education. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the resolution. We believe that it is both sensible and reasonable that persons wishing to obtain a permanent residence permit have either been in full-time employment or have had their own business for some years. Foreigners should not be able to qualify for permanent stay in Denmark by being on su, and we intend to stand firm on that. The rules for obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark, including the employment requirement, were tightened back in 2016. The changes were made, among other things. In this context, it should be noted that training can no longer be equated with employment, even in the context of the requirement to be associated with the labour market when the Foreigners' Board decides. Four additional conditions were also introduced, at least two of which must be met. One requirement, which we call the supplementary employment requirement, can be met by 4 years of employment in the last 41⁄2 years prior to the granting of permanent residence permits. In spring 2017, the basic employment requirement was further tightened. Today, the requirement implies that foreigners must have been in ordinary full-time or self-employed employment for at least 31⁄2 years in the last 4 years prior to the granting of permanent residence permits. Both times a very broad majority in the Folketing was behind the changes. When the social democracy before the elections has supported the employment requirement for permanent residence permits, it is because we previously saw that foreigners who had not contributed much work in Denmark still received a permanent residence permit. A permanent residence permit means that a foreigner is normally entitled to stay in this country, even if the basis for the residence permit is no longer present or even if, for example, he is not present. become dependent on public help. In other words, it is a commitment on the part of Danish society that it is in Denmark that one gets the opportunity to live one's life. It also means that you can have access to social boxes for the rest of your life if you need them. It is set aside for the concrete demands we make on foreigners who wish to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark. And that is also the reason why a commitment to a life in this country is on top of the fact that, as a foreigner, we ourselves have contributed to society through regular full-time work for a long period of time. The Radical Left believes that the rules in force can cause foreigners to opt out of training in favour of an unskilled job because training does not count in the assessment of employment requirements. Of course, foreigners must be able to improve their skills through education. It's self-evident. And we can also look at the example of the authors of the comments that the Mohamad in question does, in other words, train. Because we know that education is an important step on the way to a better life, whether that life is to be lived here or in another country. However, the employment requirements reflect the government's view that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits should be given to those who have contributed to society by working. Today there is therefore a duty to contribute a few years on the Danish labour market by working for a minimum of 30 hours a week. I think that is a reasonable requirement. Some people may have to wait longer to obtain their permanent residence permit, but that does not mean that they are excluded from ever having a permanent residence permit. As I have also quoted in the motion for a resolution, I have already pointed out from this platform that it is paradoxical that work in the context of vocational training does not count in the employment requirement. However, the Social Democratic Party could not convince the other parties behind the rules that the part of vocational training in which the pupil has a training agreement with a company should be included in the calculation of employment requirements. At the same time, it is important for us to maintain the broad cooperation on foreign policy and the stability that it also contributes to. It is now the case that cooperation, among other things. is based on compromises. The government therefore wants to maintain the current rules for obtaining permanent residence permits, which we ourselves have also helped to adopt in this Chamber before the elections. Therefore, we do not really have any plans to change the employment requirement, and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143615	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There are a few brief comments. First it's to Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143621	Thank you. And also thanks to the Minister for the speech. I know that the Social Democrats themselves have helped to tighten up these demands, but that is why I still had a hope that perhaps a slender hope of seeing the sense of the resolution here. Because, as the Minister himself points out, it must be sensible and reasonable. And it may well be that Mohamad, who appears in the comments on the proposal, insists on wanting to train, despite postponing the possibility of permanent residence, but there are also many young people who simply drop out of their training to take an unskilled job. What is the Minister's response to the young people who feel pressured into unskilled work rather than just skilling themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143713	Well, my message to them is that the rules of the Alien Law have to be based on justice. We are a prosperous country with a relatively high tax rate and a relatively well-developed welfare state, and it is clear that it is an attractive society to immigrate to; everyone can see that. And if such a social model is to survive, it also requires us to deal with how immigrants meet the welfare state. That is why we now have profit principles in the cash aid system, and we have interpretation fees in the healthcare system, and I also believe that we need to regulate permanent residence permits and citizenship in a way that tells people that if we are to have permanent access to social security funds for the rest of our lives, it is fair that we ourselves have helped to contribute to this. That is why I think it is reasonable that we have just had a minimum of 30 hours a week on the labour market for some years before we can get the permanent residence permit, which is the ticket to be in Denmark for the rest of our lives, unless we commit really serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143816	Thank you. Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143818	I understand the argument to have contributed to Danish society prior to becoming a national or obtaining a permanent residence permit. But there are also a number of requirements to be met. On the one hand, there is a requirement as to how long you should have stayed here and, on the other hand, there is a requirement as to how much crime you should not have committed. But in terms of contributing, does the Minister not think that one contributes to society by taking on an education which, in the long run, makes it possible to contribute to the Treasury by paying taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143855	Finally, I would like to say that being in the process of taking an education can, of course, quickly become a talk of words. I do not think in itself is to contribute, at least not to the economy of society; it is, on the contrary, to draw on the economy of society. But I fully acknowledge that we are getting into a position where we can contribute even more in the long term. So to that thing with justice, I would say that I think it is an excellent principle that they say: Do your duty, demand your right. This means that if your right is that you must have access to the social boxes for the rest of your life, then it is also reasonable that you have just had a job for 31⁄2 years first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143932	The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210143935	Thank you. Do your duty, demand your right. It's hard to disagree with, I think. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that the entry ticket to the Danish labour market and to get into employment is, in this sense, to take an education. It's the ticket to our labour market. This means that the many young people who start an education because they want to have a job in Denmark and because they want to have a permanent stay take that training in order to be able to get into employment. So isn't the Minister here backing a policy that is actually tripping off for these young people to get into employment in the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144020	I am a great supporter of education and free and equal access to education, but I do not think it is quite right to say that you cannot get an entry ticket into the labour market if you do not have an education. In other words, a great many of the Syrian refugees who have come here have, after all, come to work too few, especially among women, I agree with that, but there are quite a lot of people who have come to work in recent years and a large proportion of them have gone into unskilled employment. After all, there is still a lot of that going on in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144053	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144054	Thank you. Yes, it is quite true that there is unskilled employment in Denmark, but it is also true that the vast majority of jobs in Denmark have become that way, and the Minister himself knows that this requires some form of training. The Minister also knows that taking an education means that you are much better placed to choose between different jobs and therefore have a much wider opportunity to apply for employment. So I would still say that taking an education is a fairly large part of the way into the Danish labour market, and I actually believe that the government and the remaining majority, which support the current rules, are helping to prevent people from entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144138	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144139	Well, education is a good idea, sure. I also think it is important to maintain that the existing rules do not prohibit, for example. refugees to start an education. On the contrary, they can just start and get a fully tax-financed education as one of the few places in the world to immigrate to. They can do that. What is the discussion is that if you are to have a permanent residence permit, can you obtain the permanent residence permit without having put a single hour on the Danish labour market? I think that is actually a pretty wild position. I think that there must be an employment requirement... we can then discuss how much it should be... but that you can just take an education and be on su without having left a penny in the Treasury and then get permanent residence permit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144222	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144235	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left is proposing to change the employment requirement for permanent residence permits so that full-time study is equated with full-time work in calculating employment requirements. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that we should earn our rights. Duty comes before right. This is also true when we talk about permanent residence. A permanent residence permit in Denmark means that you cannot be sent out of the country. That is why we must be sure that people who have permanent residence can also take care of themselves. We must be sure that they are and will be a positive contribution to Denmark. That is why we also believe that it is perfectly reasonable that a number of conditions should be met, including proof that Denmark will benefit from a minimum of 30 hours of work per week. Social democracy does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144320	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We also have a few brief comments to make here. First of all, it is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144327	Thank you. It wasn't unexpected, but nevertheless I can get upset. I note that the rapporteur says that it must be people who both contribute and will contribute. Does the rapporteur not agree that taking an education is a sign of the future contribution to Danish society? Perhaps you are not doing it right now and here, while you are on the brink, but it certainly gives a wider palette of opportunities to enter the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144406	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144408	I have to say that this motion for a resolution represents for me that it is as if one does not remember how privileged a life one has in Denmark, that is that education is tax-financed and tax-financed does not mean free of charge. It is enormously costly to finance the education system, it costs taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars every time someone takes a higher education in Denmark. If you're going to have access to that system and have access to goods in Denmark in the long term, it's only fair in my world that you make your own contribution before you start to change these systems. In practice, this is done by going to work and paying taxes. This is not done in practice by getting up in the morning and going to a training institution funded by taxpayers and where you get su every month to show up. I can't follow the logic behind this proposal at all. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144504	Is there another brief comment? Yes, there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144507	So if, as a man who wrote to me, has lived in Denmark for 12 years, has learned the language at the level required, takes an education as a social worker, has no debt or stains on his criminal record and has participated in voluntary work, including the Home Guard, for several years and, incidentally, also committed himself in Danish high schools, one simply does not contribute to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144532	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144534	That's a funny way of setting it up, because that's not what I've been saying. I think it sounds as if he, Mrs Samira Nawa, has done what one should expect of any human being who comes to Denmark. But it is not the case that I stand up and give some speech of gratitude and say that people who come to Denmark and are given opportunities and who avail themselves of them, sign for them and do what every good citizen should do, deserve such a special form of thank-you speech. I'm not going around saying thank you to our fellow citizens who walk down on Strøget and buy Christmas presents. We must be able to expect each other to live up to the general obligations we have and to expect each other in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144612	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144615	Thank you. You have to contribute to Danish society if you want a residence permit. If you go on a pedagogic training course, you are in the course of your training in practice. It can be in a crèche and there you are included in the classification and contribute to the workplace, contributing to the Danish society. If you go on a machining course, you are also in an internship during your training and are working in the labour market. I am in favour of the Social Democrats not supporting this proposal, but could the Social Democrats not see any models of education that would help to facilitate access to permanent residence permits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144658	Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144700	No, I have to admit that I cannot see it, and I would actually say that I often think that when we are down here in the Assembly, it can be difficult with resolutions. Because sometimes you can see that there really was a corner of this that might sound very reasonable, and something like that, where you thought that there might be something in it, and fortunately there are also sometimes proposals like this, where you can take it a little more calmly when you go to the platform, because you know that you are a hundred percent disagree. And I disagree 100%, and I would say that if you had to do something, you'd have to go the other way. If we are to look at the conditions for permanent residence, we should not make it easier to have permanent residence, but then we should consider whether we have it too easy in relation to permanent residence. I'm not saying we have. I am just saying that if you move it in one direction or another, I know in which direction I think it should be moved, and that is certainly not in the direction that Mrs Rosa Lund is setting out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144744	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144745	I don't think it's a secret, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, that you and I have a reasonable disagreement about Danish foreign policy. However, when I ask, it is because both in 2016 and 2018, the Social Democratic Party said that in fact, in relation to taking a vocational training course, it was felt that the apprenticeship there should be included in the employment requirement for permanent residence. So I'm thinking, is that because the Social Democracy doesn't mean what was meant in 2016 and 2018? And does the Social Democrats think that the learning time of a vocational training is worth more than the learning time of a teacher training course?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144820-2	It is clear that there is a difference between education, where one only sits passively and receives education, and then, for example, vocational training, where a very large part of the time is out working and actually contributes something to society. But that doesn't change the fact that at that time 4-5 years ago it's history now that you were discussing these things, you landed an agreement where it didn't come into being, and I live well with that, and I think that's good. I mean, I would have been able to accept the other, I think, or I don't know, because now it's kind of counterproductive. But we landed the second model here, and I think that is a good thing. I think it is more than reasonable that we should deliver and contribute to the labour market and pay taxes before we can expect to have a permanent residence permit at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144859	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210144915	Thank you for the floor, President. The Left believes that the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits should be strict. That's why we've continuously tightened these rules together with a number of other parties. Because granting permanent residence permits is not something we just have to do. We must think carefully before doing so, and the fact that we have not done so in the past has meant that we are in a more difficult situation as a nation today than we should have done. The fact is that the rules for obtaining a permanent residence permit have a major impact on how many asylum seekers are trying to come to Denmark and if the rules for obtaining a permanent residence permit are relaxed, there is, of course, a risk that migrants and refugees will try to come here. We must always bear this in mind, just as is the case when we look at the size of social benefits, that is, the higher the social benefits, the greater the influx. The Left cannot support this motion for a resolution, and perhaps there are basically three reasons for this. Firstly, we have finally reached the goal of bringing down asylum figures. It is a great success and something we should be happy about. That is why it is not time to start relaxing the requirements, because we are at risk of compromising the low number of asylum seekers. Secondly, most of the argument put forward by the Radicals that the so-called employment requirement should be relaxed is based on the requirement to maintain foreigners in unskilled work as if having an unskilled job is worth less than training. We see it just the other way round: there is nothing wrong with working, there is nothing wrong with unskilled work, and it is quite natural that, when you come here, you first show that you are prepared to be self-supporting before you even start the process of looking at whether you should be here permanently or for a long time. Moreover, when you work, you can support yourself and yours, while at the same time contributing to society, and that is certainly a good thing, including for integration. Of course, when you are in the Danish labour market, you also acquire a wide range of skills, just as you do when you are in education. It is not one thing or another that leads to better integration. For example: I am convinced, in terms of language skills and insight into Danish culture, that you can learn both equally well. Thirdly, it is fundamentally fair that you support yourself when you want a permanent residence permit in Denmark. After all, we have made the rules for a reason, that is to say to ensure that those we grant permanent residence permits in Denmark are not the fault of society, but rather that they take care of themselves and theirs, and we in the Left think that this is self-evident. That is why we cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145212	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments, first of all to Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145216	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur began by saying that the rules on permanent residence permits must be strict. I think it's verbatim what I wrote on Twitter yesterday. We in the Radical Left also believe that they should be. They should not be unreasonable, and it is not the case that we think that unskilled work is bad. But I am sitting side by side in the Ministry of Employment with the rapporteur's colleague in order to find a solution to how we can get our young people, who are neither in education nor in work, to get their skills out of unskilled work in one way or another, and here there is a group of people who really want to train, but we are giving them an incentive to take unskilled work. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a problem at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145308	I believe that when you come to a country where you get shelter and, at the same time, you are a country that has the largest redistribution via the public welfare welfare state, free education, schools, health, etc. Especially when you come with the ballast that you cannot, of course, do, namely that you have not been part of contributing to that society in advance, I simply cannot see the reason why, on top of that, an incentive structure should be created to opt for Denmark, because you know that there are not just very high social benefits here, but there are also some options that will enable you to save up for a permanent stay in that country if you take up an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145411	Thank you. Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145412	I understand that the Left and the rapporteur are concerned here with the equalisation of the contribution to the labour market. Can the Left see a model for itself, where e.g. Those who contribute by being students, perhaps instead of having 30 hours of work could count a student job with? After all, there are a great many of these young people who both balance being in education and then have part-time work or study work that does not count, as the rules are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145446	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145447	I actually think that we in the Left would rather be in the opposite direction: to make greater demands on one's being anchored in the labour market before going into what is at all about one's being able to stay here in Denmark and that one has some duties that one promises before one can become a part of something as sensitive to a large immigration as the Scandinavian welfare model is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145516	Thank you. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145520	Thank you. I have a very important meeting at 8:00. That is why I may not be able to reach my rapporteur's speech. At any rate, I can say here that the SF supports the resolution, and I also have a question for the rapporteur. As it is now, it is easier for foreigners to get permanent residence if you have worked as a cleaning assistant for the last 3 years than if you have, for example, completed a bachelor's degree at a Danish university. This means that foreigners with qualified backgrounds opt out of Danish education because it does not help their chances of staying in the country. What does the rapporteur think it can mean both in terms of integration and also in terms of our society as a whole, namely that we are missing out on the untapped potential?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145605	I do not have the impression that you will be less integrated if you do unskilled work than if you take a bachelor's degree in university. These are two different ways of integrating into Denmark, and I am absolutely clear about that. However, I think that the fact that you are looking after both areas is actually favourable to your integration, regardless of which of the two tracks you choose. Then there is the whole question of whether there is any untapped potential. I think there may well be. I think we can easily see that we are pushing a potential ahead of us, because they first have to show that they will be self-supporting before we let them into the path that can lead us to embark on an education that we can, of course, otherwise, but where it just does not lead to permanent residence. I think it's important that we keep these things separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145705	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145707	At any rate, I welcome the recognition that an untapped potential can arise here. But I think it is really a pity that you choose to override it because you want to pursue a strict immigration policy. I think it is crucial that we give people opportunities in this country, and I think it is really sad that, when there are some people who actually want to train and become part of our society in this way, they do not get the opportunity because it gives them worse conditions for being able to stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145737	I think that is probably where we are ideologically different; to have opportunities in this country is not something that everyone is able to do. If it were, our social model would collapse. It is very important for us that we have control of the influx of asylum, and it is very important that we do not create a lot of loopholes for permanent residence in Denmark. Otherwise, we will collapse under the financial burden that it is already for Danish society to finance this area. We spend more than 30 billion. kr. in this field every year. That money could have been spent much more sensibly than we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145813	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145817	Thank you. In other words, I also understand the rapporteur on the Left's speech that we are very concerned about whether or not we are contributing. Should we really understand the fact that the Left does not believe in general terms that taking an education is to contribute to society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145839-2	Taking an education is something you do with the intention that at a later stage you can contribute to society. Of course, one contributes in one's own way by taking a course of study just deferred but in relation to contributing in the sense that one is not an economic burden on the society one has come to, there is, of course, the difference that for a period of time one has an expense on students that one does not have on people who are active in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145913	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145914	Well for young people who live in Denmark and who have lived in Denmark for many years but on their parents' residence permit it means that they lose the basis of residence on the day of their 18th birthday. This is typically where you start an education with precisely the aim, as Mr. Mads Birdede has mentioned that it is going into employment. After all, no one is training because they do not want a job or do not want to contribute to society. That is why it would only be logical to say that education counts when you apply for permanent residence because you will later take up employment. Or is it, sir? Mads Birded in fact stands and says that young people who are born and raised in Denmark should just be thrown out on the day they turn 18?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145956	Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210145957	No, I am not saying that, but I do say that if you have come here from an area where there has been peace, it may well be that you have to either be repatriated or otherwise return. This is part of the policy we had with the paradigm shift. There are also those who want to be so attached to Denmark that they will be able to stay here in the longer term, and of course that group will have to work both in the labour market first and later, if that is what they want to do. I have sat and looked at the figures for Syrian refugees, and I can see that this idea that there is a very great potential that is lost is probably something that is more intellectual and theoretical talk than it is reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150040	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. I'm afraid time's up. And thank you for the rapporteur's speeches and everything, there are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150102	The proposal, which has been discussed here, is to change the rules for permanent residence permits, so full-time study is included in the calculation of the employment requirement. The proposal thus equates study and employment. The comments refer to an example in which a person claims to have to work for 30 hours a week next to a full-time study of 40 hours in order to meet the employment requirement. The fact is that, in order to obtain permanent residence permits, one of them is to obtain permanent residence permits. must have lived in Denmark legally for at least 8 years. In addition, you must have worked for at least 3 years and 6 months. The point is that you take an education and then do not necessarily work both things at once. There is now a difference between study time and work, and I do not think that the two things should be treated in the same way. And if it takes more than eight years, I think it's gonna be okay. The crucial thing in this matter, when I read the proposal, has of course been how the government dealt with it, the Socialist Government. What I can understand from the rapporteurs and the Minister is that they are opposed. And I think it is a good thing that this resolution has been taken against the Radical Left. The Danish People's Party rejects the proposal from the Radicals because the requirements for obtaining permanent residence permits must be strict. Therefore, study time and work should not be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150231	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. When Mr. Carl Valentin has had to go to another meeting, we should welcome Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150253	I'm sorry. I had just forgotten that the order is slightly different when it is a resolution. Unlike others in this room, we in the Enhedslisten are not afraid of equality in society. We would like those who are part of Danish society and actively want to become society to be able to do so without constantly hanging over their heads that they are only here on borrowed time. When you have been in Denmark for a long time and the prospect suggests that you will spend the rest of your life in this country, you must also have the opportunity to participate in Danish society on equal terms with all of us. As you know, civil rights are not only reserved for well-educated and highly educated men, as was the case in 1849 when the constitution was introduced. We have gradually sought to increase equality in society, so that both poor and women today have the same rights as all of us. However, there is a place where we are lagging behind, and it is with the so-called strangers where it is, as if we stop every time it is about giving rights, even if they are people who have lived in Denmark for many years, talking about people who are perhaps actually born in Denmark. If you choose to train in Denmark, you delay your own opportunity to have a permanent stay with many years. One therefore has an unreasonable choice and one must refrain from training if one wants to secure one's future in Denmark. How, then, does this really relate to the rest of the policy pursued by the government? You could ask yourself. You know, you don't get much out of asking that. I don't think we have done that today because it doesn't add up. We live in a country where education is one of the entrance tickets to the Danish labour market; we also live in a country where young people get their ears full of how important it is to take an education and I also think it is important. But I think it is unreasonable that we should then tell this group of young people that it is not worth their while to take an education, because then it will delay their own ability to have full rights in this country. At the same time, we also have a government that wants more young people to take vocational training. That is what we want in the Enhedslisten. However, those who are in Denmark on a temporary basis and would like to have permanent residence will actually be delayed if they take a vocational training course. In fact, I would go so far as to say that they are being punished. The fact that the government's policy in this area is not linked is not new, as I have said, at least not for us in the Enhedslisten, but I think in particular that there is a very serious question mark over vocational training. The current Minister for Foreign Affairs has himself stated that it is the view of the Social Democratic Party that the learning time during vocational training should be included in the employment requirement, both in connection with the abolition of the possibility to include education back in 2016 and again during an inquiry debate in 2018. That is why I am very surprised that we have not taken the time to do just that. However, I have learned more about this today, because the Socialist rapporteur certainly does not think it should be so. Nor can I understand that when you take a pedagogic education or a nurse's education or a master's degree, which is higher education, where you are also internship and contribute to society, it should not count. I think all education should count. But we should at least be able to agree to ensure that education and training in which employment is actually in some way part of it also counts. I think it is really a pity if we cannot agree on this and I think that the Social Democrats are shooting themselves in this footsteps. But I don't think it's a secret. Nor do I think it is a secret that the Enhedslisten supports this motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left. We look forward to the committee reading, where we will probably raise some more questions to the government about the things that are about internship periods.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150700	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, so the rapporteur should just stay. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150711	Thank you. There were many things I did not understand about this speech, but I understood that there were some things that were said in previous speeches that Mrs Lund did not understand. I shall not dwell on what Mrs Rosa Lund did not understand. But nevertheless: How the hell do you get wealthy men from the 1800s into a discussion about whether people need a permanent residence permit to get a taxpayer-funded higher education in Denmark? I mean, I can't make these things stick together at all. At the same time, I would also like to say: why is it so crucial to Mrs Rosa Lund that these people have permanent residence? So, for a very large number of those we are talking about, they are people who have been given protection after war; they have been granted asylum in Denmark, and then they have very generously been provided protection by the Danish taxpayers; then they have been given the opportunity to train, or it may be they have been given the opportunity to work; then it may be that it has been reasonably peaceful in parts of their country to return. I guess that should be the goal. Why is it so crucial for Enhedslisten to have everyone made into people who are to stay in Denmark forever and ever, even if there may be peace in parts of their homeland? Do we want to make integration problems bigger and bigger each year? What's that all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150819	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150821	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Stoklund asks, because then we can start a little more from the beginning, although I really think that's what I was trying to do by going all the way back to the Constitution in 1849. The reason why it is important that people can be here on permanent stays and not on temporary stays is that temporaryness creates a huge insecurity. I'm gonna take the opposite view, sir. Rasmus Stoklund believes that a temporary residence permit is one of the main obstacles to integration. The fact that you are here permanently and that you know you have to be here permanently because there will be no peace in Syria tomorrow I believe that because we all know very well that you should then have the same rights as your neighbour who was born here in Denmark. I don't understand why, sir. Rasmus Stoklund insists on making this division into our society. These are people who apply for permanent residence permits because they want to be in Denmark and because they do not have the opportunity to return to the country from which they have fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150922	Thank you. Here you go for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150925	Of course there are many different groups, but when it comes to people who have been refugees, we often talk about some of the world's most resourceful refugees, who have been given an opportunity to travel to Northern Europe, to Welfare Scandinavia, and who have been treated extremely nicely and generously by the Danish taxpayers. And then Enhedslisten believes that because they even accept the possibility of taking a tax-financed long higher education, they also deserve to be given a permanent residence permit without really contributing anything along the way, and it is on the basis that it may be that one day they will contribute something. Well, I don't understand the logic at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210150959	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151000	Unlike Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, I believe, contributes quite a lot to society when you take an education. That's why I'm not buying that story at all, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is running for his post here. In fact, I think it is a great contribution that Danish young people make when they take an education. And there I would like to say that exactly the same applies to young people who are taking an education and who are not born with a red-bellied passport in their hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151026	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151031	Thank you. I would like to sign for Enhedslisten's support for the motion for a resolution; I was not in any doubt about it. I also believe, like Mrs Rosa Lund, that all education ought to count on, but we also have to do a little pragmatic work, which is why I like Enhedslisten brings this in with the fact that education, where work is part of learning time, could be something one could look at. So I regret that the government and other parties are rejecting it right away. But to follow up on Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's question about whether you are just given a permanent residence permit, I would like to ask: Doesn't Mrs Rosa Lund really think that Denmark will also be given good labour • well trained labour • when a permanent residence permit is given to young people who have taken on an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151123	Well, it is at least the idea that it should be so that what Denmark gets again is well-trained labour, well-trained labour. We have good education in Denmark, and I cannot understand why we are setting up these tripwires all the time for young people to be able to take an education. That is what we are doing here, because the situation is that there are some young people who have been in Denmark for many years and who lose their residence basis on the day of their 18th birthday. In fact, I believe that it is harmful for Denmark that we have people living here who have no basis for residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151157	Thank you. Is there no other brief comment? No, there isn't. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151204	Mrs. Rosa Lund told Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that it was necessary to have these changed rules to avoid people getting ill and that they get some kind of uncertainty. Because it creates uncertainty, and I understand that as a mental state when you are here temporarily, and therefore you have to give permanent residence more quickly and according to these changed rules. So that means that having a stay in Denmark is to be used as psychological aid. So, that means that anyone can come and say that uh, I feel so a little bad that I have not been permanently resident and subsequently also citizenship, so that is why I am entitled to it. Does Mrs Rosa Lund really think that in this way you can have the opportunity to stay permanently in Denmark, that you as a politician are allowed to do so, that is to say just to distribute it to people because you believe or believe that there is a mental need for permanent residence permits?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151308	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151308-2	After all, we are not just standing here shelling and waltzing with permanent residence permits. It is a question here of making demands either that people have been in the labour market or that people have been in education. That is not the same as saying that permanent residence permits are just hanging on trees. That is certainly not the policy of Enhedslisten. Our policy is that education should count on when applying for permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151335	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151336	The rapporteur also said that it creates a division of our society, that we are not just granting these permanent permits. It creates division in our society, allowing people from foreign cultural circles to settle in Denmark and obtain permanent residence permits and subsequent citizenship. And sometimes I think that's actually what Enhedslisten wants. Then you do not have to make a revolution yourself; then you can hope that the chaos and upheavals where you can seize power will come because of the cultural immigration which is causing a complete break-up in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151415	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151416	Well, I have never thought of our foreign policy as such as a kind of recruitment base or recruitment policy, or what Mrs Krarup suggests. The problem with the temporary nature of the situation is that it is becoming more difficult for people to integrate because they do not know whether they will lose their livelihoods and residences tomorrow. I believe that this is detrimental to integration, and I believe that it helps to divide us up in a very harmful way. Unlike Mrs Krarup, I do not want us to be divided up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151445	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we welcome the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151500	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. We do not support this proposal. We will see it as a relaxation that makes it more attractive to look towards Denmark. We support, of course, that you should take an education, if you like, in Denmark. And everything else equal will take care of an education, so that you get a job that should be at an even higher level. So we're not backing this relaxation. Especially when we hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that if you have come here from Syria, you just have to have a permanent stay because you will be here forever. So, the whole idea that the moment you get some kind of asylum in Denmark, then you just have to be here forever, is exactly what makes if we introduce rules like these, Denmark becomes what Enhedslisten wants, namely an even more attractive place to go. Then I would like to thank the Social Democrats for supporting a line that is very similar to ours and, I believe, to all the blue parties. And that means that we have a Parliament that is massively opposed to this proposal, and that gives me some peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151606	Thank you. Although the rapporteur's speech was short, it gives just a few brief comments. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151613	Thank you. Well, I understand that the rapporteur sees this as a foreign policy, and we are dealing with it here too with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but from a radical point of view there is also industrial policy and employment policy in this area. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a little paradoxical that we have an economy, a labour market that is crying out for labour, skilled labour, and that at the same time we encourage some young people who are hungry to train, hungry to contribute to Danish society, to take unskilled jobs rather than to train themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151649	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151650	We have the feeling that people who come to Denmark to take an education, not least those who get a job, want to stay in Denmark, but it has to be because they want to do so and want to enter the labour market. It is not the case that one should take an education just because one thinks that then one has a fixed track for permanent residence and thus for citizenship. I mean, you'd want to take an education because you want to train. And if it is the case that you are here for a temporary stay and then come to an education, then common sense then says that you take that education and then get a job at a higher level. After all, it should not be the case that one takes the training alone to get fast track to Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151729	Here you go for a second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151733	However, it is not the case that it is only an employment requirement that needs to be met in order to be able to obtain permanent residence permits. There are a number of other and also strict requirements, what we in the Radical Left really think is reasonable when we now apply for permanent residence permits. So I would like to repeat the case I mentioned earlier, which is about a man who has been here for 12 years. He does not have any debts, he has no spot on his criminal record, but has also participated in volunteering in the National Guard and been to various Danish high schools. Doesn't that show a desire to be in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151808	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151809	If it is the case that you are in Denmark and are offered a training place and therefore also a temporary stay, then it is not the case that you have to leave the country. Then you can continue to be here on temporary stays and then get a permanent job which can then lead to permanent stays. So if you really want Denmark, you naturally take that route.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151828	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151844	I can actually be very brief. I'm here to say what? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151904	Thank you for that brief speech from the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151923	Thank you for the floor. Yes, it will be a little like season three of a television series that has started to go a little in circles, because, like the two latest rapporteurs, we also believe that the proposal is a relaxation of the law on foreigners, and we do not want a relaxation and therefore we are voting no. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210151947	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments either. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152003	Thank you very much. And thank you for the debate. We in the Radical Left do not believe that education should be a punishment, but that is how it is for a group of young people today. We in the Radical Left believe that it is a waste of talent to encourage young people to take unskilled jobs rather than to train themselves. So it is a youth life of unrest and uncertainty, which we offer to young people who, in spite of having them postpone the possibility of applying for permanent residence permits. I myself have been in contact with a multitude of young people who have a hunger to train and contribute to Danish society and who meet all of the other requirements to apply for permanent residence permits in Denmark. And these are quite strict requirements, and that's fine, because that's how it's supposed to be when you want a permanent residence permit in Denmark. One of those I would like to highlight is a woman who came to Denmark from Afghanistan in 2010. She skipped the language school and took an hf course of 2 years with an average of over 12. She's been volunteering and had a dream of studying space technology. And that's where I had to break up what space technology really is. But after 3 years in Denmark she entered DTU on the line for geophysics and space technology. This really is a young person who wants to contribute to Danish society. She has now entered a job after completing her education and thus contributes to Danish society. But it must also be the case that we recognise that she has postponed her right to apply for a permanent residence permit. She's not alone, there's a number of these cases. And I really do not think we can afford to say to these young people that education is a punishment. There are also people who simply break their necks on taking an education and are stressed over constantly every two years having to renew their temporary residence permit. In the end, they drop out of education and take an unskilled job. I do not think we can be familiar with this. I also think that we should stop looking at it as a relaxation of foreign policy on that dimension; we should look at it as an enterprise policy, as a youth policy and as an employment policy, because we also live in a country where we have to live on equal education. So I would like to thank you for the debate, but of course I am also sorry for what the parties have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152303	A brief remark was made here on the table. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152309	How can you talk about education being a punishment in this context? In the Radical Left, for example, it is thought that this is the case. Is a punishment to live in the Middle East? Some of those who are here have come as refugees, and at some point they no longer have the basis for having asylum in Denmark, because peace has been created where they come from, and then it is obvious that they are going back to where they came from, as well as I would have liked to go home to Denmark if I had been somewhere else while there had been a conflict here, and I would have been so privileged to be able to have asylum somewhere else in the meantime. I wouldn't consider it a punishment to go back to Denmark. Does the Radical Left believe that it is a punishment to take an education and then get back to your home country? Is living in the Middle East a punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152347	In the Radical Left, we do not think it should be a punishment to take an education, but that is what the system is today. You will be punished if you choose to take an education as a young person with refugee status, because what you are encouraged to do is simply to take unskilled jobs and thus obtain permanent residence permits more quickly. And so it is also a punishment for Danish society that we are not offering these young people to take an education and could count it with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152416	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152417	I believe that on the left in terms of value policy we have succeeded very quickly in getting some of the people we are in contact with into a logic that education can be a punishment. It is a huge privilege, for example, to be able to take a long higher degree in space technology education in Denmark, or that it is available to one, without it costing anything, because the Danish taxpayers have generously paid for it, and then all it lacked was that they subsequently came out and delivered on the labour market and paid taxes, paid back to the taxpayers, and showed that you can also contribute something to society yourself. The fact that you can use the word punishment in this context is completely foreign is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152452	Yeah, but that's the way it is. And now it is not the case that it is only an employment requirement that needs to be met in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. Some of these people are Danish married, they can be born in Denmark and meet all the other requirements that apply, but still could not count an education, should still be in the unreasonable and also unpleasant situation, as it is to feel Danish and be regarded as Danish, one is always here for a temporary stay and keep having to apply for an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152528	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152546	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 December 2020. We must first have a explanatory statement, and that is from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152621	Thank you very much, President. Then we are here again to discuss rules on Danish citizenship. I must be honest and admit that I had hoped that we could withdraw this question if the Minister had come to our attention and said: now we are calling for new negotiations on Danish citizenship. In fact, I would almost say that if we had spent all the time we have spent discussing when we should have the new negotiations on Danish citizenship, on negotiations instead, we would actually have saved a lot of time. It is no secret that it is a matter for us Conservatives to tighten up the rules of Danish citizenship. Back in February, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, our chairman, on the front page of Jyllands-Posten with our suggestion that among other things. Convicted criminals should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship. I'm sure the government noticed that media coverage. In March-April, the Minister himself said in this Chamber that if there was a wish from the Danish Parliament for new negotiations, he would like to meet it. Nothing really happened. So, in May or early June, all the blue parties went together for a joint letter to the Minister, where we wrote: We want to have negotiations on Danish citizenship so badly. Still nothing happened. Frankly, we do not think that is fair. We have a new Parliament with new parties with a great many new members. Only in my own group are almost half of the group's new members of parliament, and I think that it is true for a great many parties that there are many new members of parliament so that there is a real desire for new negotiations, I think I should have been accommodated a long, long time ago. Different parties have different interests. Some have more focus on the business sector, others have on the punishment side and others again on integration. The bottom line is that there are a lot of people in this Parliament who want new negotiations. And still nothing has happened. Then the Minister has said that he would like to look at convening us at the beginning of the new year, but we have still not been convened or held the first meeting. That is why we have asked for this question debate so that we can get the Minister to speak again, hopefully with the result and I will come back to that in my proposal for adoption that negotiations will be convened at least before the end of the year. These are the negotiations that we Conservatives believe should have been held a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152845	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth for the explanatory statement. Here you go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210152856	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for the floor and thank the authors of this question. As I have said several times, including here from the platform in the Danish Parliament, I expect that before Christmas all parties in the Danish Parliament will receive an invitation for negotiations on the adjustment of the citizenship agreement, and then I hope that we can start the actual negotiations at the beginning of the new year. We are asked what the government's priorities are in relation to the debate. Out of respect for the upcoming discussions, I am not going to be here today listing the government's presentation, but it is no secret that I think that the current rules, which are the result of the 2018 citizenship agreement, are overall good. We do not therefore come from the government to launch a complete revolution in the area of the granting of citizenship, but we believe that there are a few places where we need to get a little screwed up, and the crime requirement is a place where I see that we can, with advantage, tighten the screw a little in a balanced way. However, we must also remember that the current rules are from 2018, i.e. from two years ago. It is true that there have been new MPs since 2018, but these rules have just entered into force. We have had very few legislative proposals in which those who are granted citizenship are dealt with in accordance with the new rules. I have also said all the time and all the time that I have been a minister that I want peace and stability in the main pillars of foreign policy; it is about the rules of permanent residence that we have just had a discussion about, but it is also about the rules of citizenship. Therefore, if we are going to look into it, and I think we should do that we should do it really well thought out and in a way that we can be sure that stability continues. I am always very open to discussing the specific nature of the various conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship and what may be needed of adjustments, and that is also why I intend to call for these negotiations. After all, the Constitution lays down this very special arrangement, which all of us in the Chamber now know, namely that the concrete decision to grant individuals citizenship is made by law and not by an administrative act in the Ministry; it is done here in the Chamber. The same is not true in relation to the disqualification and withdrawal of Danish citizenship; here the constitution is different. It is therefore not intended that it will be included in the forthcoming negotiations on the conditions to be met in order to be granted Danish citizenship. The negotiations on the citizenship agreement are then the guidelines for drawing up a draft law on citizenship notification and thus the acquisition of Danish citizenship; that is what the negotiations concern, as they have always done. It is therefore not said that we are doing nothing or cannot discuss anything in relation to exclusion and disqualification. The government also put forward a proposal last year to make it possible to take administratively the citizenship of persons of dual nationality who have behaved in a way which seriously harms Denmark's vital interests if it does not lead to statelessness. The purpose of the amendment was in particular to allow administratively to deprive foreign fighters located outside the country of their Danish nationality. Currently, in ten cases, we have deprived foreign fighters of their Danish nationality on the basis of these rules, and none of them have been deprived of the nationality that has entered Denmark so far. I am very pleased that the rules are being applied and, as you know, the government has proposed that the sunset clauses for the rules on administrative withdrawal be lifted. We have dealt with this at first reading and, of course, I also hope that the majority that emerged at first reading will last through the second and third readings. As indicated by the government's legislative programme, on the other hand, the Government will also propose that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark may, in the context of the decision of the criminal proceedings by judgment, be deprived of their Danish right of birth unless they thereby become stateless. So we are constantly working to exploit the opportunities for disqualification within the framework of the international conventions that we are bound by, including the stateless Convention and the Convention on Civil Liberties. Those were the words on my part. I look forward to the forthcoming discussions after New Year, where we will also have the opportunity to hear a little more about what other parties have of wanting to adjust the agreement on citizenship, and then I hope that we can agree on some changes that can make a good agreement even better and in a way that maintains stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153358	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then it is the case that one brief comment is now available to the rapporteurs before we start the negotiations themselves, and so far there are two who have asked for a brief comment. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153413	Thank you. I do not think the Minister is in any doubt as to where New Citizens are in relation to the granting of Danish citizenship, but I would really like to ask the Minister something else. When the Minister says this about us being called for negotiations soon, I would just like to know if the Ministry has found a solution to this problem in relation to the criminal record, that is to say, the fact that you have to be able to look further back than 10 years, I think, in relation to sentences for paedophilia, for example. It would certainly be quite good to have it when we sit and negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153449	With regard to the dialogue we have with the Ministry of Justice and with the National Police, it is quite true that it is a headache that has been there for some time now. There is no final solution yet, but I can say that it is on the stairs. And I look forward as a small child to being able to inform the Danish Parliament about this, because it is of course untenable that in the last negotiations we adopted something that is applicable, but which we have little difficulty following up on in the Criminal Register because some information has been deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153521	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153523	First of all, thank you to the Minister for saying that now the call will finally come. I look forward very much to seeing it in my box, but frankly, Minister: why has it taken so long? As far back as the spring, the Minister himself said that the Minister would call for negotiations if there was a wish, and there is a massive desire for it. I even think that the Social Democrat rapporteur at the time of the third reading of the law on citizenship just before the summer said: relax, these negotiations will come before winter. I think we're in the middle of the winter. In any case, we are in the process of winter before we get to the negotiations. So I would like to ask quite briefly: why has this taken so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153600	I think I have always said that we should bear in mind that the current rules were negotiated in 2018. It takes some time to process the case, and that also means that the people we are looking at the legislative proposals, among others. The legislative proposal we are dealing with now is, therefore, some of the very first people we have seen, whose cases have been dealt with in the light of the last negotiations. I also think it would be a little baroque to start negotiations before the effects of the last debate have even been achieved. That's why I've always thought that there's no reason to stress this over the summer of 2020. I think this fits in well at the beginning of 2021, which is why I have always planned after the call will be sent this year, but negotiations will start next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153654	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153657	I would like to ask the Minister how he feels about the possibility of dividing up the bill on citizenship that we are voting on in the Chamber by group of countries, so that in future we do not have just one bill in which all names are on it, but so that we have a bill for each country or for certain groups of countries, just as when people apply for visas. There are also different rules here for different groups of countries. But here it is the case that the rules are not necessarily set out in advance because we in the Chamber can vote yes or no. One can, of course, come into the baroque situation that I myself have been in, that I have had to vote against a bill and thus to a very, very close person who was clearly a Dane and could easily obtain Danish citizenship because there were so many with whom I do not think should have citizenship. But if you had divided them into groups it could be country groups, it could be civilization groups; you could discuss how it should be so that you would not have been in that situation. What is the Minister's view of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153801	With the current agreement on citizenship and with the current circular, we are laying down rules, and if people live up to them, I think that the point of departure is that it is quite logical that the parties that have been involved in negotiating the agreement on citizenship should vote in favour of it. Because these people have lived up to the rules you've been involved in negotiating yourself. If the Danish People's Party, in any future negotiations in such a citizenship agreement, has written in either a group of countries or a group of civilizations, and the parties to the agreement agree on that, then it is also necessary that it can be done within the framework of the constitution and, at least, for the Social Democratic Party, the conventions · then I think it is quite natural that the legislative proposals will also be divided in this way. But then it happens on the basis of a citizenship agreement. So when I have been dismissive now, it is because I think it would be contrary to the logic of having a citizenship agreement if some of the people who actually lived up to the demands were nevertheless to be rejected in the Assembly. Then it doesn't make any sense to have any demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153906	Thank you, Minister. There's no more short remarks in this round. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, Mr President, we need the rapporteur for the questioners. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210153931	Thank you. Looks like we both did it in reverse order. As I said, we are pleased that the Minister is finally calling for negotiations. These are negotiations that we believe should have been held a long time ago. I do not agree with what the Minister says about the fact that it is only a few years ago that we made the last rules and that this is just happening because there is a different composition of the Folketing with new parties. There was a new government in 2015, and there we were at least not pale to make some very marked tightenings, because that was what was necessary. That's what I think should be the important thing here. So that is what is necessary. There we believe Conservatives believe that criminals should at least not have citizenship. You also have to look at the rules in relation to speaking properly Danish. You have to have a conversation. And then we have a string of other proposals that we look forward to discussing with the other parties here in the Folketing. I would just like to say that so far I have been a little sad that the Left and the Social Democrats have voted against our motion for a resolution on, for example. criminals who are not to have Danish citizenship. That probably indicates that the tightening up that is coming may not be as extensive as we had hoped. Here comes the negotiations. Thank you to all the blue parties for helping to put pressure on the Minister and for the joint letter we wrote almost six months ago. That is why I have a joint proposal for adoption on behalf of all the blue parties, namely the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, and that is as follows: Proposals for adoption • Danish citizenship is the finest gift the Danish people can give to a foreigner. Therefore, there must be strict requirements to obtain Danish citizenship. If you want to become a Dane, you have to be a Dane. Stay away from crime, you have to support yourself, you have to speak Danish, and not least, you have to have embraced the Danish values. In the past, citizenship has been granted to far too many people who do not meet these requirements. It is therefore positive that the government has indicated on several occasions that it would like to convene new negotiations, but unfortunately nothing has happened. However, the current rules on the granting of citizenship still need to be reviewed, and therefore the government is invited to convene this year the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on tightening up the rules on citizenship. V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154206	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And thank you for reading the proposal for adoption by the blue parties. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154220	With this request, the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance would like to have an answer to the government's priorities in relation to the negotiations on a new citizenship agreement. The parties also want to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is planning to convene the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on a new citizenship agreement before the end of this calendar year. The Minister answered these questions very well in his speech. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we should wait to discuss tightening the current conditions in order to obtain Danish citizenship until we meet for negotiations on the other side of New Year. We believe that the current conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship, which we made a tightening up of in 2018, are sensible. However, we would like, for example, to look at a possible tightening of the requirements of good repute, i.e. whether the applicant's ability to comply with Danish legislation and not commit crime. We therefore believe that it is quite reasonable for us politically to impose strict requirements on people who wish to become part of the Danish community. And with those words I will put forward the Social Democratic Party: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration intends to call for negotiations on the adjustment of the citizenship agreement before the turn of the year with a view to negotiations at the beginning of 2021, where among other things: The requirement of good repute will be discussed. V 33).
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154351	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And thank you for the proposal for adoption. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154356	Thank you. I had an interesting conversation yesterday, I think, with Danes Worldwide, who said in the run-up to a completely different bill that there are some Danes who have gone to America and acquired American citizenship, and then they have given up their Danish citizenship. And there we have made such a five-year scheme that if you have given up your Danish citizenship, but you want it back, you can have it. We think this is a fine arrangement, and I think we will also work towards extending it. But part of the rules actually say that if you have received a prison sentence, you cannot get Danish citizenship back, and we think that is common sense. So why not just use exactly the same scheme for people who need new citizenship, so that if you have received a prison sentence, you cannot obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154445	I think that the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth must bring up to the negotiations on the other side of New Year's.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154459	There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the Social Democrat rapporteur and welcome to the Left rapporteur Mr. Mads Birded. It is only to take care of ourselves and each other that the Bureau has said that it is preferable to go up the counter and down the stairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154519	It's so fine, I can easily understand that. Thank you for the floor. I am sure I will not surprise anyone in this Chamber when I say that, of course, we in the Left believe that Danish citizenship is one of the top things we can achieve. Danish society gives something very special when giving citizenship to a foreigner. It's a gift, nothing less. It is a gift that one receives because one has proved worthy of becoming a full part of the Danish community. It's like all other privileges, not something that just comes on its own. It's not something that just suddenly stands in a letter that dumps into the mailbox. It's something you've earned. It is against this background that we have repeatedly tightened the rules in the area of citizenship. That is why we are today making a large number of strict demands before you can become a Danish citizen. We demand, among other things, that you speak Danish, that you accept the Danish values, that you know about Danish culture and the Danish social conditions, that you can support yourself and, finally, that you stay on the narrow path of virtue and are free of crime. And, of course, that's how it's supposed to stay. There is a need for the parties of the Folketing to come together and examine whether the rules we now have in this area of citizenship are up-to-date. On the left side, I can say that we have already found two areas where we believe there is room for austerity. The first is in relation to the granting of citizenship. It is a special requirement here that we stay away from crime and we are ready to negotiate to make it much more difficult in this area, because basically we must behave properly and comply with the law in order to obtain Danish citizenship. But just looking at the award criteria for citizenship is not enough. There are also people who have already acquired citizenship who are very much abusing the Danish passport. This applies, for example, to criminal immigrants, who are part of the gang environment, and to Syrian warriors who have murdered, committed violence and rejected democracy. The kind of people who, unfortunately, have obtained Danish citizenship, we have to remove citizenship again, and this requires us to tighten up the rules and to do so quickly, which is why we have tabled a number of motions for resolutions which make it possible to take citizenship from gang criminals if they have dual citizenship. It is all in an attempt to awaken the ministry so that we can be summoned to the negotiations that we have been promised. That is also why we are standing here today in this debate on the question, in order to call on the Minister to initiate these negotiations on new rules for the granting of citizenship. We can, of course, endorse the proposal for adoption which Conservatives have read out on behalf of others. Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay... okay, okay... okay... okay, okay, okay... okay, okay.... okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154816	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154819	I just want to say thank you to the Left for the good cooperation. Perhaps it is something I just imagined, but I say to myself at least that if we had not pressed on with the joint letter year and with the question now here and over and over again it could have been a very long time before the Social Democrats had the wish to convene the negotiations. So that would not have happened without good cooperation across the blue parties. The need must surely be based on the challenges that we see in society and not on when the last adjustments were made.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154857	Thank you for the receipt for the good cooperation, and that is one which Mr. Morten Dahlin, who could not be here today, has taken care of and the rose must of course be directed that way. We believe that there is a need for quite considerable restrictions, particularly in relation to the granting of citizenship. Because there are some types of crime that we must have looked at a lot in the seams, and also something in which we may have participated, which may not be directly criminal, but which may be very, very difficult. If, for example, you're gonna have to... have helped to open and close a great many companies etc., we think that you need to get around the Danish Parliament so that you can have a Danish citizenship as a minimum. So we look forward to continued cooperation on this with the Conservative temporarily lent Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210154957	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, here you go to Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155007	Thank you for the floor. If the Danish People's Party had 90 seats, we would organise the process of acquiring citizenship differently. We wanted to maintain the requirements to come to terms with the law, and we would very much like to help tighten them up. We would say that one must be married to a Dane in order to be considered and that one must withdraw or renounce one's former citizenship. We do not want more citizenship to be carried around. It's a bad thing. If you want to be a Dane, you have to stop calling yourself by another nationality at the same time. You can't have two nationalities at the same time. Nationality should only be granted to 1,000 per year, and it should not be international conventions that determine who should be included in the 1.000. And you should ideally vote on each one separately, and you should have the opportunity to have the person for a conversation, so you know who they are. If you cannot vote on each person individually, you must at least be able to divide people by cultural circles or by country, just as we also, when granting people visas, look not only at objective criteria but also at where they come from. Moreover, it is also an objective criterion. You could create those groups of countries by cultural groups or just by international organisations. We are talking about a whole series of sharpenings which we would like to see done. In the negotiations on which this debate is about, we do not know how far we can go. But we will go into it and try and get it as far as we can, of course. Because it is something so important for Denmark's future that just a little bit is also right. We are not pursuing such a progress party policy where you want everything or nothing and where 99%. never is good enough; only 100 per cent. That's good enough. No, we go in and try pragmatically to get what we can get. This is a crazyly important area, because when you give people citizenship, you give them inheritance to our old kingdom, to our old nation. One gets to be able to call oneself and his descendants Danes forever, and gives them the right to decide how Denmark should be organized. It is incredibly important that you first give it to people to whom you can trust to build on Denmark, as Denmark is, and do not want to smash it all and turn it all into a caliphate, for example. But it is also important to give it in small doses, because even if it is friendly people, perhaps from neighbouring countries, they will still have a different attitude towards being Danish when they are new. So just for that reason one has to give it to quite a few at a time, and that is why we believe that 1,000 per year must be the absolute maximum. We do not want there to be a population change, and that is what happens if we continue at the pace that has been happening since 1983 with the unhappy legislation we got at the time of the liberalisation of the refugee law, when virtually everyone can come to Denmark and demand to live here and have residence and have citizenship afterwards. Since then, a quarter of a million people have acquired citizenship in Denmark. Too many people need to slow it down. If we do not, we will be accused by our Danish descendants and rightly so that we sold out of Denmark. So I can only welcome the fact that we are having negotiations, even if it comes a little later, on the possibility of tightening up the rules on citizenship. And we would very much like to participate in them, because fewer citizenships must be given and they must be given much more selectively. The Danish People's Party agrees with the proposal for adoption that Conservatives read aloud from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155456	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155459	Thanks also to the Danish People's Party for the good cooperation. As I said, I do not think we would be holding negotiations right after New Year's, if it were not for the good cooperation we have here in the blue block. After all, the Danish People's Party has teased us Conservatives a little too, at least in the beginning, to vote in favour of the overall draft legislation on citizenship, and we did so because we were in the agreement. When we realized that the negotiations on new rules are not coming, we have chosen this time to vote yellow. Because there are some on the list that we would like to give Danish citizenship to, and some that we do not want. So we think it is fair to vote yellow with that argument. What is the point of view of the Danish People's Party for the negotiations? Is it part of an agreement and then voice red again, or is it perhaps with a slightly more nuanced view?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155548	Well, I do not see that it is necessarily related to the fact that you have to vote in favour of the legislative proposals because you are part of the agreement. Why should we be forced to give citizenship to those to whom we do not want to give citizenship, because we have been involved in an agreement in which we have made sure that, after all, it is a smaller proportion of those to whom we do not want citizenship to be granted citizenship? So I'm not signing that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155621	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155622	But does the Danish People's Party then buy our logic? I am quite sure that every time there are some on the list that the Danish People's Party would like to give Danish citizenship to, not least the Southern Schleswigers. So why not vote yellow and say: there are some that we want to do and some that we do not want to vote red, because then you will vote de facto no to the whole list, since there is the middle road called yellow and the view that some people want to give to, and some people do not want to give to?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155649	That is why we want it to be split up by country groups. We would prefer to vote individually on each one. We believe this to be the most reasonable thing at all, and we also believe that this was the intention of the Constitution, and that was actually what was done at the beginning. If you go back and read the old debates, you can see that you are sitting and talking about each individual person on whom you will vote. So that would be the right thing to do. And then you wouldn't have that problem at all, because then there were some people you could vote yes to and some people you could vote no to. That is why I hope that it will come out of the negotiations that we will actually divide these legislative proposals into groups of countries or groups of civilisations, or whatever they call it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155726	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210155740	Thank you for the floor. In recent years, the legislative proposals in this area have become more creative. Most recently, there has been a proposal for separate citizenship allocation law so that candidates from Muslim countries appear on a different draft law than the other applicants. This means that the screw is being tightened, but in the context of the forthcoming negotiations I hope that the Minister for Integration will look with positive signs at the radical Left's desire to give citizenship to young people born and raised in Denmark. It is young people who have had their whole lives in Denmark, young people who are in education, young people who are in work and paying taxes. The Radical Left would therefore like to call for further legislative work to recognise and applaud young people who are already part of our community. As it is now, many young people experience that they are Danish until the moment when the citizenship procedure begins. At that very moment, many young people, whom I have spoken to, have the ugly experience of feeling alienated. In the Radical Left, we therefore believe that if you have passed the primary school's final examination, and if you have stayed out of crime, you must have citizenship at the age of 18. Another important issue that the Radical Left would like to take to the negotiating table is the Disability Convention. We would like to see a change in the law of birth or circulation so that a decision can be taken in the Birth Court under the Convention so that those cases are not decided in committee. In general, we would like to have ordinary proceedings in the Court of First Instance in accordance with general principles of administrative law. This means that we would like to avoid a casuistic treatment, which is the risk in the committee, and that instead we will have a treatment at the birthright office and thus have a treatment where similar cases are treated equally. In those words, I look forward to the negotiations and I hope that the Minister will be sensitive to the position of radicals at the negotiating table. In conclusion, on this basis, Radicals and Enhedslisten will put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the current rules for the acquisition of citizenship are extremely strict and rigid. The Danish Parliament notes that new negotiations on a new agreement on rules for the acquisition of citizenship should ensure transparency, legal certainty, equal access and compliance with international conventions, including the stateless Convention and the Disability Convention. A new agreement will therefore be aimed at legislation which will make it easier for similar cases to be dealt with in the same way. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160108	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And was the adoption text from the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten? Susan Kronborg Yes). Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur recognise that there are young people born and raised in Denmark who, in some cases because of the parallel societies we have, where people can live completely outside Danish society, are completely unintegrated, who may even have a criminal background and who have not taken the Danish values into account and in some cases even drawn to Syria to fight for the Islamic State? Do they also need Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160145	No, that is not what is in our paper about what we call the red carpet for young people who would like to have a gift • a gift made up of citizenship and that is so, provided that there are no criminal conditions. So that is what we on the Radical Left call the red carpet.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160216	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160217	If we then remove the criminal part, does the rapporteur recognise that there are young people born and raised in Denmark who are not integrated into Danish society at all? And is the rapporteur also of the opinion that they should have Danish citizenship only because they were born and raised here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160233	At least that's not what's in our package, our 18-year gift to the young people. In this context, I would also like to point out that there are a great many people who, after all, the majority of these young people are actually acting like all other young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160254	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur, SF's rapporteur, had unfortunately just to leave. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160318	Thank you. When Enhedslisten's author of citizenship, Mr. Peder Hvelplund, could not be in the Chamber today, I have promised to read this speech: In a society like the Danish we value democracy. We expect each other to take an active part in our democracy, which is why we are also one of the countries in the world with the highest turnout. A prerequisite for a healthy and active democracy is that all citizens of the country have the opportunity to influence development. Civil rights are a fundamental prerequisite for a healthy and democratic society such as the Danish one. In countries with which we normally compare ourselves, the acquisition of citizenship is an administrative act in which the applicant can apply on the basis of clearly formulated and transparent criteria, where refusal is justified and where there is a right of appeal, i.e. procedures worthy of the rule of law. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Denmark, and we know from the media coverage that the majority of the Committee on the Rights of Citizens reject the vast majority of derogations submitted to the committee. People who are here legally and who have the prospect of spending their entire lives in this country must have the same rights as all of us. And the children who are born and grow up in Denmark must have the same rights as the other children with whom they are classed, play along and grow up. However, we are heading towards a society in which a growing group of people must live here with us without having the full civil rights that the rest of us have. This is a worrying development, we think in the Enhedslisten, and we would like to help reverse it and make it both easier to have permanent residence and easier to obtain citizenship. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration wishes to make a new agreement on the acquisition of Danish citizenship, the Enhedslisten is very much in favour of participating in such an agreement, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it aims to increase access to democratic participation in society for those citizens who today do not have that opportunity. In short, we want to make it easier for more people to acquire Danish citizenship. It would be nice, however, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration invited us to this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160536	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160556	I would like to start by saying: thank goodness there is no majority for the kind of negotiations that the Enhedslisten is proposing fortunately. Well, in New Citizens we will not go along in the way that most politicians in here throw around with Danish citizenships on to people who should never have had it. And I say it again, and I have said it several times before, but it's because there are actually a lot of people in this Parliament who seem to have forgotten it, but now I have to remind them again: in 1983 a large majority of Parliament passed the incredibly damaging alien law. It simply opened the doors of Denmark and allowed the alien masses to flow in. It was, and still is, completely insane. In 2008, Denmark's Statistics produced a projection showing that we in Denmark could expect 340.518 non-western immigrants in the year 2050. But we have already surpassed that figure now, and it is shocking when we see that mosques are shooting up in several cities, we can see that the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions and schools and public jobs, that halal meat and gender-separated swimming are readily accepted, that immigrant gangs are shooting off on open street and that terrorist protection has become today's architecture, and when we see that police, rescuers and home helpers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign-heavy residential areas. And crime by people with Middle Eastern or foreign or Arabic looks is daily literature in the local media. Male non-western descendants are more than twice as criminal as Danish men. 39% by non-Western descendants want to impose restrictions on newspapers to protect people's religion. So freedom of speech is under massive pressure. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where we have statistical evidence that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. Criminal foreigners must, of course, be deported consistently and after the first sentence, and foreigners who have been granted Danish citizenship must be deprived of it if they are given an unconditional sentence of liberty. Danish citizenship is a very great gift, and we must cherish it; we must not throw it around with it on the right and left. And these are some of the things we're going into these negotiations with. Because we owe it to the Danes to ensure that Danish citizenship is not handed out laxly, as is unfortunately the case today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160832	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160836	I would like to thank New Citizens for the very good cooperation and a small, I would not say revelation. But I have been working on the area of foreigners for several years now, but it is in fact only the last year that I have had to deal with the area of citizenship. I think there are a lot of people, especially in Denmark, but not least inside this Parliament, who are not at all aware of how many citizenships we actually give and how many people shouldn't have it at all. After all, it is we in this small circle who are sitting here who can go in to adjust the rules. I know that the rapporteur is passionate about this issue, so I hope that New Citizens will agree to the negotiations and be in the negotiations for as long as possible and then contribute as many constructive proposals as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160925	Thank you very much for the praise, and also thank you for the good cooperation in putting this question. We always go constructively to the negotiations. We're not gonna sit in a corner with crossed arms. We really want to go in and help solve these problems, to tighten this up, and we will fight for that. Of course, some of the points that I mentioned here are also some of the things we bring to the negotiating table, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210160950	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161005	Thank you for the floor. Historically, too many citizenships have been given to people who did not like Denmark and have done nothing good for the country, and this is a breach of the principle that has always been in force in the constitution: that the granting of citizenship is a political issue which should not be dealt with administratively and bureaucratically. Why, then, could that principle be broken? Well it could, because in the 1980s and 1990s there was a different dominant ideology than there is today, and it is an ideology that can be quite difficult to understand when you look at it from 2020. But it was, of course, that countries were a form of constitutional construction and abstraction without cultural or historical value, and that is why in principle it did not matter who lived in the countries, as long as the people who lived in them were provided with sufficient rights. It sounds really strange when you stand and explain it, but that is how countries, nations and citizenship were thought about at the time. But in the meantime reality has revealed that ideology is nothing more than an ideology, that is, a set of ideas which are not derived from practical experience or common sense, but which are derived from high ideals and more or less reasonable ideals, usually the latter. What experience has shown is that citizenship should only be granted in a very selective way, because if we do not do so, a process of illegitimate social changes and changes in society will begin which are undesirable to the large majority. This kind of undesirable social change must be done much by the Folketing to avoid, and that is why we need to renegotiate the agreement on the principles for granting citizenship. It must be difficult, but it must of course not be impossible to become a Danish citizen, and we must try to avoid giving citizenship to people who are opposed to Danish culture and the Danish social model. So to put it briefly: people who are opposed to the Danes. We don't need people like that. As individuals, they destroy everyday life for their surroundings. Here we were able to import a principle from Switzerland which rejected applications for citizenship on the grounds that the applicant was generally annoying. This is something that one might also consider doing here in Denmark. As a group, people are not only generally irritating; they also destroy society itself in the long term. I can see that, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is enjoying himself, but the case is actually about a person who was a vegan and who was rejected in his application to become a Swiss citizen because of the general annoyance of veganism. I think we, as Danish politicians, should think about this. But we welcome the statements that have been made by the Minister and we are pleased to endorse the proposal for adoption which Mr. Marcus Knuth has already read, and with that I thank him for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161400	I am therefore delighted that I should not seek citizenship in Switzerland. I don't think I had a lot of chances either. Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There is, in fact, a comment to Mr. Henrik Dahl of Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161424	Now, of course, I have thanked all my good blue colleagues and, of course, I should also like to thank Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl. Now I can say with even greater certainty that it will be both exciting and entertaining negotiations that we go to when Mr. Henrik Dahl is in. But in more seriousness: The strength for us in the blue block is, for example, that we come with different angles. I know that LA also has an occupational angle in relation to social benefits, which count as employment. And when we take all the different angles we each have and go together as a blue block for negotiation with the Social Democrats, I think we can actually get a really fine agreement with the high demands that we all make. Now the Left also mentions that even they want tight so I look very much forward to the negotiations, including with LA.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161516	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161517	I think that is mostly a comment for which I would like to thank you. However, I know that we must not get to grips with the President, and that is very, very far away from me, but I must say that the President must not have as little thoughts about himself as the President has just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161537	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Thank you, Mr President. Henrik Dahl. And I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210161630	I would also like to thank you for today's debate and start by saying that I look forward to the further discussions we will have in the Ministry before too long. And as I have already said, all parties in the Folketing will receive an invitation within a short time. I am not going to make any further pick-up on the question debate here, but just say that I actually think that on both sides of the House there have been a great many good contributions, not only in the form of concrete adjustments to the agreement on citizenship, but also a little more general considerations as to what citizenship is about. I mean, I'm like... Very much agree with Mr. Henrik Dahl, when he says that for some years we probably had the idea, which was my childhood and youth, that a society is based on material conditions and that a country is the framework of a state that gives citizens some rights, but perhaps completely forgot that culture and history are also important for people. There was a Swiss minister who, after the wave of immigration, Switzerland, like many other Western European countries, was influenced by and even invited to up through the 1960s and 1970s a number of years later stood looking at the integration challenges in Switzerland, and then he said: We invited labor, but we got people. I think that is what it was all about, that people forgot that when people stand at the border, they do not leave their values at the border, and from one day to the next enter into a new set of values. Of course you have your values with you. If I moved to Poland myself and had to raise my three children there, I would raise them to ensure that abortion is okay and that homosexuality is not a sin, even though the society in which I raised them had some other values. There is little to say about people who come here also holding onto their values. This is not something we can just vote out of in this Parliament, nor is it something we can just expect from, because people maintain their values, especially if they grow up and live in areas where the values that are the exception in the rest of society have gone and become the rule. Therefore, both foreign policy and integration policy are crucial for Denmark's present and for Denmark's future. But I would also like to say that I actually agree with some of Rosa Lund's words, namely that it is not healthy for a democracy, that there is a growing group of citizens who do not have full rights to enter democracy and cast a vote in the parliamentary elections. In my own constituency I'm stationed in the West Region... it was at the last parliamentary election in a municipality like Ishøj every four adults over 18 years who didn't have the right to vote. After all, it is not sustainable if we are to live in a country where one in four adults does not have the right to vote. Two things can be done: either you can lower the bar so that more people have citizenship; or we can reduce the influx and then work with the quarter who does not have citizenship in that municipality in the hope that they meet the requirements of citizenship so that we can reduce the proportion of people in this society who do not have citizenship. We are in the government in favour of the latter. It is a long and cool move which is both about getting limited, how many new people come here, and so few integrated those who have already come here. This must be done in a proper manner and with respect for all parties. I believe that an adjustment to the agreement on citizenship can be a small, modest contribution to that, and I look forward to being able to call for those negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162024	Thank you, we say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162118	The debate is open. I welcome the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162129	Thank you very much. I regret the delay. It went a little fast with the previous item on the agenda, so I had to run across the street. But now I'm here. With this motion for a resolution that we are going to deal with today, the SF will introduce a ban on offering and performing conversion therapy for people with disabilities. I agree with the proposers that Denmark should have the right to be who you are and be able to live freely, regardless of sexuality or gender identity. That should not be controversial. The government came earlier this year with an ambitious initiative with ten initiatives to strengthen rights and opportunities for homosexuals and bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexes. The initiatives will include: change legislation so that it becomes quite clear that discrimination and harassment of homosexuals, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexes are prohibited. This applies regardless of whether it is in the workplace or in society. We will also make it quite clear in the penal code that trans- and intersex people are protected from hate crimes and hate utterances. The initiatives to strengthen protection against discrimination, hate crimes and hate utterances are expected by the government in a draft law in the spring of 2021. The initiatives are based on a comprehensive review of legislation across a number of ministries. In this context, relevant organisations had the opportunity to provide input to where they felt the legislation could be strengthened. Conversion therapy wasn't played in. In the explanatory statement, the authors of the proposal refer inter alia to: for the teaching material at AdamogEve.dk. In my view, it is no place for me to portray homosexuals and transgenders as negative or as something to be suppressed. In this particular case, the Minister for Children and Education has stressed in the media that freedom of expression and press is guaranteed, but that free schools must, of course, comply with the freedom and the folk rule requirement, also in relation to the production oflgbt+ persons. At the same time, the Minister for Children and Education has announced that there is a need to look at whether there is a need to tighten up in relation to catching an imbalance in education within the current framework or whether there is a need to tighten the rules. It is therefore being looked at whether further action can be taken. I would like to stress that I agree that materials such as these are cross-border, but it is hardly conversion therapy. Actually, it is not quite simple to say what conversion therapy really is. International experience also shows that it is not simple to impose a ban on conversion therapy. In Germany, for example, there is one. prohibit any treatment intended to alter or suppress a person's sexual orientation or gender identity. Examples of treatments include electroshock and homeopathic substances designed to detoxify the body of homosexuality. In addition, psychotherapy or the like is mentioned, which may be prohibited, depending on the circumstances. But if it happens voluntarily and with consent on an informed basis, it is legal. In Norway, after what I have been informed, no ban on conversion therapy has yet been imposed. The Norwegians are examining the relationship between a ban and, for example, a ban. freedom of expression and religion. In Britain too, a ban has not been imposed, although a draft law on it has been tabled in the past. In Denmark today we have very little knowledge of conversion therapy, so what it means or how many people may be exposed to it. The former minister has discussed the issue with the organisations in the field of lgbt+ and it is not their view that conversion therapy is a problem in Denmark, fortunately. On the other hand, a study from 2015 from Als Research shows that 15%. by New Danish lgbt+-persons have experienced pressure to get married against their will and that 13 per cent. have been subjected to violence from their families. I think that is a very violent and totally unacceptable behaviour, which I suppose, among other things. Bounds in religion and outdated concepts of honor. But is it conversion therapy? The point is that we need more knowledge about conversion therapy in Denmark. That is why the former Minister for Gender Equality has decided to launch a study. It shall seek to identify what is meant by conversion therapy, how people who have been subjected to conversion therapy experience it and, if possible, give an indication of the extent. When the study is completed by mid- 2021, I will be happy to discuss the results with the parties. The study will hopefully give us a better basis for discussing whether there may be a need to look at the possibilities of a ban. The government is in favour of a Denmark where there is room for diversity and where love between two people should not be restricted by their gender. But we are also in favour of making decisions on an enlightened basis. The Government cannot therefore support the proposal put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162641	We thank the Minister. Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162645	Thank you. I note that the Minister says that there are a number of organisations that believe that this is not necessary legislation in Denmark. But when we look at the material which is the example I have given as a basis for this bill and which refers to an offer of advice that compares homosexuality with paedophilia, and when the organisations then go out and say that there is a need for a ban, should we not listen to them, even if they did not just say that when they asked, but are saying it now, where there is a concrete example of problematic things going on out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162728	Well, I think that what Mrs Carøe also heard me say was that I think these things are unacceptable, but also that we must find the right balance between freedom of expression and freedom of the press on the one hand and wanting to do something about those who are deliberately trying to influence the actions of other people and restricting people's love to other people regardless of their sex on the other. That is why we are concerned about two things. We would like to make a study where we get more knowledge about what conversion therapy can actually be characterized as and to what extent it is widespread in Denmark. At the same time, the Minister of Education is also looking at this teaching material, etc., in relation to whether more can be done to limit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162820	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162821	Thank you. I really appreciate that the government has done so, that is to say, that this study has been started, and I am also looking forward to hearing the outcome of it. Does the Minister not think, whether it is a major problem or a small problem in Denmark, that it would also be a strong signal to send out: conversion therapy is prohibited in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162844-2	I think it is quite clear that it is an important and crucial signal to say: we reject the examples that we can see, no matter where they take place, and no matter how you try to influence other people not to love those they now love. I think that is quite clear, but if we are to make legislation or impose a real ban on something particular, we should also be aware of what we are banning. So it is not a refusal to ban anything, it is more an appeal that we become aware in advance of what we are banning and how we prohibit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162921	We are grateful to the Minister, and we shall now proceed with the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210162944	Today, we have to take a position on a proposal to ban conversion therapy for homosexuals. For the Social Democratic Party, any form of discrimination against people with disabilities is totally unacceptable, and we are proud to have always been the party that has taken the lead in the fight for the rights of people with disabilities, both in Denmark and internationally. Every hateful speech to lgbt+ people must be combated, and that is why we are pleased that we, together with the blue block, among other things. had an agreement made to prohibit the admission of hate preachers to Denmark. Before this it was the rule rather than the exception that, for example, Islamic religions in Denmark invited imams to Denmark, which would execute homosexuals. And we have said quite clearly to the free schools which have discouraged homosexuality or otherwise behaved inappropriately. Now we are examining the extent of conversion therapy and whether it exists and how it should be defined. The Social Democratic Party believes that it is most serious to wait for this investigation and then come back and see what can be done in concrete terms. That is why we cannot support the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163044	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163046	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Simpson too. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, if it doesn't, almost regardless of what this study shows, whether it is a major problem in Denmark or a small problem where it exists, whether it exists in very Muslim environments or in very religious Christian environments, is a really strong signal to send out a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163105	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163108	It obviously exists in some imams, because we have had problems with that. In other words, there are imams who have said that homosexuals must be killed. It is under the criminal code, and that is why we have been able to exclude some of them. I think that is a difficult balance. Are we talking about people who put electrodes on people's heads, or how exactly is it to be determined? As a national church priest, is it possible to say that homosexuality is wrong? In principle, I think you are allowed to do so. Is it possible to say, 'Come again next Wednesday, and then we'll talk about it?' Yeah, that's what you're allowed to do. So seriously before you come up with a ban I think it's important to define what it is and then find out what we're doing about it. No one in the Social Democratic Party believes that people should be converted. And in relation to the teaching material, it is also a task to stop it if there is any material that is wrong. You have to comply with the law as a free school.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163151	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163152	Thank you. The rapporteur talks a lot about the things that are going on among imams and so on, and I think that whatever religion oppresses homosexuals, we should do something about it. However, the rapporteur acknowledges that this is also happening in the Christian environments, for example. on the website AdamogEve.dk, where we have recently seen examples of homosexuality being compared to paedophilia, violence and incest? Does the rapporteur recognise that it is slightly wider than in just the Muslim environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163226-2	Yes, that is also why I mentioned Christian free schools. But I still think that there is a significant difference between saying something ugly about homosexuals and calling for killings. And there we have had, at least as I was just looking through it before I was going in here, four imams who have visited Denmark in the largest religion, namely Islamic Religion. They were invited to Denmark. They've been directing that homosexuals should be killed. I think there's a difference between that. But it does not make it any more pleasant to compare homosexuality with paedophilia or other things. I strongly reject that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163252	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the Left, and that is Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163301	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome the Liberal Alliance, which is unable to participate itself, and to give my rapporteur's speech on behalf of both the Left and the Liberal Alliance today. The motion for a resolution on conversion therapy which we are about to discuss here has been tabled by the SF. SF proposes to introduce a ban on offering and performing conversion therapy and similar therapies aimed at the sexuality and gender identity of persons. There must be no doubt that for the Left it is a fundamental value that everyone should be allowed to live out what they are and their sexuality in the way they now want. We will not accept oppression or discrimination based on sexuality or gender identity. And, of course, being gay, bisexual, or transgender is not a disease. That is what Denmark thought 39 years ago when we got it from the list of mental illnesses, and that is what we believe today. It is not a disease that should or should be cured, just because you are different simply because you are not like the others. I know it's not always easy to be different. But I also know that no one has to be kept out just because you're not like the others. In Denmark we are free. We are free to be who we are and our diversity is a huge force. But we're hearing about pressure and coercion against lgbt people, and that's not okay. So we fully agree with the intention and ideas behind this motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, the motion for a resolution is very unconcrete. There are several things that puzzle us, for example.: What does SF mean by conversion therapy? The text mentions teaching material to justify the ban on conversion therapy. But the teaching material has nothing to do with conversion therapy? Why is there only focus on Christian environments? Why are the other religions not involved? How is the ban on conversion therapy to be formulated in concrete terms? Should the ban apply to children under the age of 18 as in Germany, or should it also apply to all others? That is why the Left supports the Danish Minister for Gender Equality's initiated study on conversion therapy, so that we can get a broader picture and a better picture of what conversion therapy is and, if possible, how large the scope is. It is also important to clarify what a possible ban might look like, even in relation to a legal assessment of what can and must be done. So the Left would like to be involved in the investigation. We'd like to move on from here. I look forward to an invitation to a meeting on this, just as I hope we can continue with this proposal in committee. For as the proposal stands at the moment, the Left cannot support it, and so cannot the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163711	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163713	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that the Left supports the intention, even if it should be more concrete. I would like to give an example and then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also thinks that it is conversion therapy. On the website of the Christian Network on Challenged Sexuality, one urges not to live out homosexuality, and one compares homosexuality with paedophilia when advising young people on how to deal with their sexuality. I think that's conversion therapy. Of course, it's not as bad as electrodes and hormones and what else you can do. But having such a negative approach to a sexuality that we have said a lot of years ago is not a disease, I think it seems like conversion therapy. Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163804	Because the proposer has now mentioned the website www.adamogeva.dk, which is being used as teaching material, I have been inside and look a little. I have also read the press release, which has subsequently come in connection with the criticism that has been made of the website, in which they regret the statements that have been made. Whether it is conversion therapy, I am not sure I agree with the rapporteur. I've been inside looking, and I couldn't see it. Those concepts have been removed, and I think that is very, very appropriate. Everything else is very unfortunate and completely wrong. But if it is conversion therapy that you say you have the view that homosexuality is not right, I do not know. And I think that should be investigated, because it is not so much about what the rapporteur and I feel. It is just as much about what those who meet it and those who experience it feel. As I have said, this is a wrong attitude, but I do not think it is conversion therapy that they are making known what they stand for. I do not agree with them at all, but that is their right, because there is also freedom of religion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163924	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163925	Okay, thanks for that. I take note of the fact that the rapporteur is also looking forward to this study, where we can look into what we can call conversion therapy. Is it in Denmark? In which environments it takes place etc.? Does the rapporteur think that subsequently, when the study is completed, the Left can back a ban on conversion therapy just as much in order to send out a signal that this is not something we will accept in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210163951	Signal policy can also be very strong, and I know that just the fact that we have this debate and focus on things is also very strong. I mean, I don't think we should have a ban on having a ban. We need a ban if there is anything we can fix with it. I look forward very much to seeing the study. I think we should try to do it as broadly as possible. That is also why I hope that the Minister will involve us in what is to be investigated, and I hope that we can work further on the part of the committee and can make some demands on the Minister together with the rapporteur, along with the SF. Of course we will look at it, but I also think we have to do things in the order that all other countries have done. We would like to know what has happened in Germany since they have imposed the ban. Norway is considering it after a thorough investigation. So let us now see what is possible at all and whether there is the need and what our legislation is covering today. Then we will decide whether or not to take part in a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164052	Thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Fatma Øktem, and then we move on to the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164102	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party, we fully agree with the introduction in the motion for a resolution, which states: "In Denmark, you must have the right to be who you are and be able to live freely, no matter what sexuality or gender identity you have. We must not accept oppression or discrimination based on sexuality and gender identity. ▪ We think that is absolutely right. Of course, you have to be allowed to be who you are. And immediately, we ourselves think that conversion therapy sounds pretty crazy. However, like the other rapporteurs who have been up, I would like to question what it really is. Is a conversation with a psychologist or with a teacher, or whatever it may be, a person of authority with respect for conversion therapy, if you go with a desire to change your sexual inclinations? So is it conversion therapy, or isn't it? I think we can quickly agree that the public should not support what can be called conversion therapy. But whether it should be available on the market in general • some form of conversation with people, if you wish, i.e. voluntarily and in the private market • I think you can question. This is not something that I myself absolutely would call for. I'd rather encourage you to stay away from it. But people do a lot of weird things. Yesterday I heard in the TV newspaper how a young woman claimed it was absolutely necessary to change her nose. Even though she was a beauty, her nose had to be operated somehow, so it was different. There are so many strange needs and wishes among people, and if you can have such treatment or therapy on the private market, then I would not say immediately that you should ban it. I would also like to ask the authors of the motion for a resolution that I cannot, from this position, examine whether this proposal affects our freedoms. So, offering or wanting some conversion therapy should surely be free, just as you have freedom of expression. Well, I guess you have to say something about it. So I think the resolution raises a whole lot of questions that have not been answered. Although I agree with the objective of having the freedom to live as you are, I think it is too unclear what you really want and what you want to ban exactly. So, immediately, in the Danish People's Party, we cannot accept the motion for a resolution. But we would like to look at further work on these things, for example. We certainly do not want to see compulsory treatment of people who are supported by the public authorities. But that people in the free market should not be able to go and talk to anyone about their sadness about being who they are and want to be something else, we do not think that we should be deciding anything about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164451	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164452	Thank you. Now the rapporteur asked me a question about what we cannot do, but now I am trying to answer it a little bit anyway. Of course, it should not affect our freedoms. It is of course very important that we have our freedom of expression in Denmark and our freedom of religion. What we are talking about here is if people are forced, and I actually think that it doesn't matter whether you are forced into any therapy, whether it is the public who offers it or whether it is private. I can see this because there are a lot of people in all sorts of different forms of therapy. But for example... You can't get your nose fixed if you're under 18 years old. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: could the Danish People's Party imagine that a ban could at least apply to people under 18 years of age?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164536	So, first of all, I think it is too loosely described what it is, so that would be the first. In general, however, I think there is something very sensible in that, if you are under 18, you should have your parents' permission or support for it. So I'd think that was really sensible. Anyway, I'm not going to say yes to anything as loosely defined as this. So there needs to be more definition. But I also think that there is a very big difference between whether it is a public-supported treatment or not. For there must of course be a wider framework in the private market than there is in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164622	Of course, but compulsory treatment is in any case coercive, what we in the SF do not like, whether it is in the private market or in the public sector. The rapporteur says that there must be a parental permit. It could be a bid, but the problem is typically that it's the parents who force the children into these therapies because the parents are against the young being gay. So isn't a ban the best way to go? I am in favour of the rapporteur not being able to support the motion for a resolution. I'm just trying to find out if we can meet somewhere where a ban might apply to them under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164658	I also think that this is too loosely defined. So, can we also say that parents should not make sure that children have their flight ears corrected or their teeth corrected? As a child, I was opposed to turning my teeth, and that was what my parents were doing. So there will be a whole lot of other areas that will also be discussed. And it's not that I want to equate being gay with getting my teeth fixed. I could see that there was a politician in the hall who was about to get a bang. But I'm going to equate the powers of the parents. Well, what are parents allowed to do, and what are they not allowed to do? And that is where I think the family should have a very broad framework for raising their children and controlling them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164750	Then we thank Mrs Krarup. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164758	Thank you. I and the Radical Left fully agree with the SF that in Denmark you must have the right to be who you are, regardless of sexuality and gender identity. Being gay, bisexual or transgender, for example. is not a disease and should not be treated as such. That is why we in the Radical Left are not opposed to a ban on conversion therapy. There are already examples of countries working on similar measures. In May of this year, Germany, for example, was adopted. a law prohibiting the practice of conversion therapy on persons under the age of 18, and in Norway the Norwegian Government is examining the need for a ban on conversion therapy in Norway and how a ban can be implemented. In a Danish context, I am really pleased that the former Minister for Gender Equality launched a study on the scope and nature of conversion therapy, and that the current Minister for Gender Equality also says that he will discuss the results of the study with the Danish Parliament. So the Radical Left does not support the resolution at this stage, but we do not refuse to support a ban on the other side of the presentation of the results of this study.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164935	Thank you to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210164947	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for presenting the proposal and for addressing a very important issue. That is something that is being talked about too little, I think. I had prepared that I should make a speech where, like a lot of others, I would say that I think conversion therapy is a huge problem. I would also like to start by saying that I think you have the right to live and be as you are, and all that, as others have said by spells. Then I would actually come to the conclusion that we would like to see the study being carried out by the Ministry and that we would then not deny that a ban could be discussed. But apart from that, I also have to say that I think that the double standards on this platform are thick. When we started talking about a ban on re-educational journeys, where we heard stories about Muslim families sending their children on re-educational journeys, so that they could be real and proper Muslims and could get some Danishness taken out of them, none of us said: How do we define re-educational journeys, I think it is a little difficult to find out; should we not talk a little more about this before we decide whether to prohibit it? Nor was anyone standing up here saying: I think there should be a very broad framework for what parents must decide about their children. Nor was anyone standing up here saying, "What if you're sent to a psychologist to cure your Danishness?" Is a psychological conversation also reeducation, or what? I think the double standard is too thick. For me, it doesn't matter which religion you use as an excuse to get people to stop living like what they really want, especially your children. For me, it doesn't matter whether it's the Christian or the Muslim faith that you use as an excuse to tell your children that they have to live in a different way than they are, and try to get the homosexuality out of them, or whatever it is, that's the idea, and it's just quite clear from this platform that it doesn't matter to everyone in this room, and I think that's too much and too bad. Negative social control by parents targeting children who restrict their freedom, their ability to live as they like, fall in love with those they want, etc., is deeply reprehensible. Is there some kind of dividing line between negative social control from parents and family, where it's just upbringing? Yes, it is there, and it's hard to find, but it's not harder in this case than it is in all the other cases, we've discussed so many times, and of course it's not okay when parents try to get their children to stop being gay by sending them into therapies or into all kinds of camps, as there have also been cases in other countries. It's not okay. I would like to thank the SF once again for taking up this proposal. I do not know how big the problem is in Denmark. Fortunately, I have not heard of these terrible national re-education camps, which have also been examples in Germany and which have led to the ban. I really hope that we do not find it when we start digging, but when we get the area further covered, I will not deny that a ban may be necessary, and then, of course, as with all the other bans that are being introduced here, we will have to define more precisely what it then covers in the legislative notes. Because we can find out that this is actually our task as a legislative assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165355	Thank you, we say to Mrs Pernille Skipper. No one has wished to speak briefly to Mrs Pernille Skipper. We must move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165411	Thank you. Today we are discussing the motion for a resolution by the SF on the prohibition of conversion therapy, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising an important issue. I would like to start by reading out a few familiar words. Most people may already know them and know where they come from: "Love is patient, love is mild, it does not envy, love does not boast, it does not imagine anything. It does nothing unseemly, does not seek its own, does not get angry, does not hold a grudge. It does not find its joy in unrighteousness but rejoices in the truth. It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. ▪ Yes, love tolerates everything, believes everything and hopes everything. Everyone has the right to be who he is and to be with who he loves. It is a freedom that we must safeguard; it is not under discussion. When we deal with the question of conversion therapy today, such methods can only remind us that coercion, control and oppression are not a viable path either in life, in the life of one's loved one or in society. Freedom and community must be first. No one should convert their sexuality against their will, and no one should be sickened on the basis of their sexual orientation. As with so much else in life, you can get into doubt, feel different, or experience yourself in a new way in the company of another person. The doubt is a condition that will arise from time to time. Doubt can help mature us; it pushes faith so that we grow. Children, young people, and adults may be in doubt about their sexuality or their gender identity. We have very much developed a language for today that is not either-or, but rather both-and. That is the way it should continue to be. We have a language that can open a conversation when the doubt seizes us. We can seek advice and guidance on how to learn to understand what these feelings are that are inside you. Here, a doctor, a psychologist or a priest or a fourth may be the professional counselor who can help put into words the newer or stored experiences you have had. It may be a child, a boy who feels different from the other boys in the class, or a young girl in youth education who suddenly finds her female classmate interesting in a way that she has not previously experienced. And what's that supposed to mean? The doubt arises, but the doubt must also help to seek answers where good answers can be found. Dialogue is so essential for us to understand ourselves. If there is not a room where the doubt can be addressed, then I am concerned that the individual is left in despair, and it is a completely different place from the doubt. Despair is a feeling of constantly falling outside, falling out, falling outside the foundation, of an endless downfall in the dark. Nobody wants to be here. The conversation must go ahead, the conversation must be legitimate, and the conversation is justified. As the motion for a resolution has been formulated, conversion therapy will be banned. Yes, it must be banned, but the proposers also want a ban on similar forms of therapy aimed at people's sexuality and gender identity. Here we are concerned that such a formulation can disassemble the conversation about sexuality and the frustrations that may arise in the wake of understanding itself. Therapy means support and help to balance and thereby to show the way. And that is exactly what therapy can do: to create a balance in the recognition that you must fall in love with and love the very person you want and that you must be who you feel fit to be. Therapies to understand your sexual orientation and gender identity are precisely the outside help that you cannot find on your own. Here, for example. The doctor, the psychologist or the priest good conversational partners. That is why we support a ban on repentance therapy, but we cannot support a ban on therapy as a hand for any doubters to reach out to try to understand themselves. The motion for a resolution, as it stands now, contains too many uncertainties. We know too little, and this gives us a good opportunity to examine the extent of conversion therapy in Denmark. We support this and we would like to continue working on it in committee. However, as it stands right now, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165853	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165856	Thank you. I am very pleased that Conservatives support the intention and would like to discuss it further in committee. I'll take that as an invitation; let's do it. I just want to ask the rapporteur something, because I kind of agree that you should be able to go to therapy and talk about the things that are difficult for you, and it can be really hard to find out if you are gay, especially if you live in an environment where there is no one or where it is seen very wrong. But does the rapporteur not find it problematic if this therapy involves comparing homosexuality with paedophilia, with violence and with incest, which is what we have seen in the things I refer to in the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165934	Yes, indeed, and that is also why we think there are a great many good intentions in this. And we also experience and experience that things are happening that are not going to happen. But we just need to look into that even further. That is quite unacceptable; I fully agree with the questioner on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165954	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210165956	Thank you. I did not want to speak again, but thank you for supporting it, and I also hope that we will support a debate on a ban after the study has been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170007	Thank you, we say to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, and then it's Mr. Birgitte Bergman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170013	Thank you. It is bad if there are children or adults for that matter who are forced to do something that they do not want, and if there is abuse or neglect of children by their parents, it is a task for the authorities to step in. However, a ban on different forms of therapy which adults, of age, can choose and wish as they like is not something we will be supporting in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170043	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. No one has asked for the floor. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170104	Thank you. It's a long way up here from the end of the hall. Thank you for the great support for the intention behind this proposal. I'm really glad about that. I would like to start by stating that no one is wrong because of its sexuality or gender identity, and that we in the SF do not believe that anyone should be pushed into conversion therapy because there are some others who think they are wrong. No children or young people should experience that during their schooling they are referred to counselling where homosexuality is put in booths with e.g. paedophilia, as we have seen examples of this autumn. As a society and as decision-makers, I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that no young person is found to be wrong because they do not fit in with certain gender roles. We are living in Denmark in 2020, and this is not to risk being sent to conversion therapy because some people believe that their sexuality or gender identity is wrong. I am seriously concerned that there are young people in Denmark who are being recommended conversion therapy. We have tabled this resolution because it is necessary to have it discussed and because I do not understand that we have not banned conversion therapy long ago. We know that lgbt+ children and young people are struggling with less well-being than other peers. We know that sexual minorities are struggling with more suicidal thoughts than the rest of the population. If you even think that homosexuality or transsexuality is a disease that can be cured and that the feelings and experiences you have are wrong, then it becomes a lot harder to build a self-esteem. Under the auspices of the United Nations, conversion therapy is referred to as torture, and we must therefore ensure that it does not take place in Denmark. Internationally, we pride ourselves on being a liberal country that upholds human rights, a country that protects the freedom to be who you are and loves the one you love. In 1981 Denmark was one of the first countries in the world to stop the sickening of homosexuals. We were it Yes, we are known as a pioneer country for lgbt+ rights at international level, but when it comes to conversion therapy, we are not a pioneer country, because in Denmark it is still legal. Several countries, as has also been said in this debate, are in the process of banning conversion therapy, including Germany. In some countries it is even considered to be so harmful to young people that it should trigger a prison sentence. I think it is time for us to follow the examples of Germany and the many other countries and work to ensure that we can have a ban. For me, it is about human rights and about us fulfilling our responsibility to protect children and young people who fall outside the norm. After I highlighted this issue and we tabled the motion for a resolution, I note that more attention has been paid to the subject. The website AdamogEve.dk has removed the pages that have been criticised, and that is good. However, this does not alter the fact that there was free promotion of material that compares homosexuality with gambling addiction, violence, paedophilia and incest, or that the website, to which young homosexuals are still referred, is still referred, among other things. of the Inner Mission for advice and conversations, recently compared homosexuality with paedophilia. So we need to prevent that happening again. As several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, after we tabled this motion for a resolution, the former Minister for Gender Equality announced that he would launch a study on the scope of conversion therapy which the new Minister can now follow. I am delighted that a study on the scale would be very good, and I will also await the outcome of the study in great excitement and hope that the Minister will involve us in the work. But I think that, whether it turns out that this is a very big or small problem in Denmark, we need a ban and a signal that we do not accept conversion therapy in Denmark. I am pleased to hear that there is broad support for ensuring that conversion therapy should not take place in Denmark, even if it seems that many people cannot see themselves in this particular proposal. That is why I would like to look forward to the work of the committee on the resolution, and perhaps we can agree on a common starting point for further work on conversion therapy in Denmark. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170540	Thank you. First, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen asked for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170547	Thank you. It is just because the rapporteur both asks whether it exists and then says that we are going to follow the other countries, so we are also in the lead, but that is exactly what we are doing, in other words, following the other countries who are also examining the scope of this and how to define it and where it is happening. I think every time that happens, it's one case too much, but doesn't SF think that's what we're actually doing, so wait for this investigation and then find out how we can do it? I hear a little different things, but I hear at least the whole centre-left say • and also some of the civil servants that it is completely unacceptable and that it must be stopped. But it is fair enough to wait for us to have the results on how widespread it is and how it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170619	Absolutely. And, as I also say, I am very pleased that we have to have it examined, as the other countries have also done or are in the process of doing. I would just like to stress once again that I believe that I was able to give some impetus to this process by presenting this resolution, because it was something that was set in motion after I tabled the motion for a resolution, and that is a good thing. So let us finally discuss it further afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170640	I understand that, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen does not want to speak again. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170646	Thank you. I was wondering whether this should also apply to the other way round, i.e. the ban on conversion therapy. Does it also apply to the other way around, that is, that one should not try to convert heterosexuals into homosexuals?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170705	Of course, if it's something that happens. If there is a large majority of homosexuals who force heterosexuals to live in homosexual relationships, then that is something we must have looked into. This is not something I have heard about, but the rapporteur will have to say if the rapporteur knows very well that it is something that is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170722	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170723	No, I haven't, but the question is, is that the principle? Should it be a ban on repentance therapy, or should it only apply if one wants to move one way? Should this also apply to the other way? Should there also be a ban on people who, by voluntary means, in other words adults, who say that they really want to have some conversion therapy to get away from the conviction they have now, because they do not like to have the conviction that they have right now, about their sex, because they do not feel satisfied with it? Is that also a ban on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170755	Of course, it is a ban on being converted the other way, i.e. if it happens that you are heterosexual and some try to convert you into homosexual. In relation to this, whether it is voluntary, I would first like to stress that homosexuality is not something you choose, it is something you are born with, and then you can choose to live in heterosexual relationships, if that is what you want. And that's something you can talk to your shrink about. I just find it problematic to compare homosexuality with paedophilia, especially with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170823	Thank you, we say to Mrs Astrid Carøe. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201210170836	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 11 December, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
