ParlaMint-DK_20200114130010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on flagging in the Folketing). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the application of disciplinary measures). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the refusal of asylum seekers at the border). Jane Heitmann (V) and Martin Geertsen (V): Enquiry no. F 30 (What initiatives will the government take to strengthen the well-being of the elderly, contain suicide among the elderly and ensure that fewer elderly people live a life of loneliness?) and Query No. F 31 (What concrete initiatives will the government take to strengthen the mental well-being of children and young people?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing of Zenia Stampe (RV) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: motion for a resolution on the prohibition of the use of glyphate on private land and public land. B 42). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Paragraph 4 of today's agenda is deleted as a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130100	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 16 January 2020. We need to start on a explanatory statement. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup as rapporteur for the authors of the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130141	Thank you. I would like to say at the beginning of the debate that we have taken the initiative of this debate by four parties today, because we have found here, after the parliamentary elections, that until now at least no signals have been received from the government that negotiations will be opened to relax the highly controversial public law, and that is so, despite the fact that the vast majority of the parties in the Folketing believe that there is a need to look at an adjustment of the law. This applies not least to all the so-called support parties of the present government, because they also want to see the current public law relaxed. In fact, a well-functioning democracy and a public administration, in which citizens can have confidence, require a high degree of openness, and we need to ensure that the rulers can be looked at in the cards, and we have been able to do so better in the past, just until 1 January 2014, when the new public law came into force. The new law, which entered into force in 2014, introduced provisions that have proved to be practical, contrary to the intention, perhaps, to significantly restrict access to public access to documents. That is something, both experts, but indeed also the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has pointed out, and that was hardly the intention of that law; at least that was not what was said when the law was introduced, because it should, on the contrary, provide more openness about central issues in the public administration. That is why the time has come for us now to look at the provisions of the law with fresh eyes and, above all, with the experience that we have gained over the last five years, when we have seen the effects of the public law, which was an innovation, and which was also a major change in the practice of public law in the past. So we hope that it will be possible for the government to look favourably on the proposal to address the challenges identified in the Public Act by many parties, not least the citizens who are experiencing, it is more difficult to access key information that you would like to have access to if you so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130443	Thank you. Then we go to the answer. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130451	After all, the concept of openness in public administration is a central principle of our democratic society, and that is why it is also the principle that underpins the law on public access to documents. But I also believe that we must all recognise that this is not the only consideration that the rules must take. The 2013 agreement on the new Public Procurement Act sought to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the need for transparency as the important principle and, on the other hand, the need to safeguard the confidential space necessary for a minister to be able to exercise political control over his area of ministers. It is in fact the circumstances; it is the two considerations that exist and the balance that must be struck. A case often has several sides, and good advice contains both arguments for and against any given solution. It is important for the quality of the decisions taken by a minister that the Minister has the opportunity to hear the arguments in favour of the solution being considered, but also to hear those who speak the opposite way. The protection of the confidentiality of the political decision-making processes of the government and ministers is not invented by the public law in force. Among other things: In the light of developments towards increased ministerial service in the agencies, a so-called ministerial service rule was introduced under the Public Service Act 2012 which, in brief, states that the right of access does not include internal documents exchanged between a Ministry's department and its underlying authorities or between different ministries at the time when it is to be expected that a minister has or will need advice and assistance from its officials m/k. However, the right of access still applies to all information on the factual basis of the case in the documents and information on external and certain internal final professional assessments. So these are the concerns that have been expressed, those are the concerns that have gone back, and that is the balance that needs to be struck. In the context of the supplementary political agreement on the Public Procurement Act in 2012, the then government, S-SF-R, agreed with the Left and Conservatives that the ministerial service rule should be evaluated after 3 years, by explaining whether the authorities' application of the rules was in line with the law. The Ministry of Justice was then required to draw up a comprehensive report on the application of the provisions. The statement was published in May 2017. That is clear, among other things. of the statement that the Ombudsman considered that the ministries generally use the ministerial service rule legally correctly, but that the rule in practice leads to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents, and that the ministries in ministerial service cases could usefully consider giving the principle of public access more weight in daily practice. Against this background, as you know, the conciliation circle started political discussions in 2017 and subsequently held a series of negotiations with a view to reaching a new agreement on the Public Procurement Act. The conciliation circle did not succeed in reaching agreement and the discussions ended last autumn, but that does not mean that it is not important to have a debate like the one we have today. Understandably, it absorbs the minds of many, and there can be many attitudes. Some will probably think that there is no need for a confidential space at all, and it is, of course, fair to have that attitude. But that is not my position, and I do believe that the public law as it stands today strikes a fair balance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130917	Thank you, Minister. Now there is the possibility of a brief comment to the Minister of those who would like it, and that is what some would like. First, it's sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114130929	Thank you for your opening answer. This is not the first time that there has been such a question here. At the time, the legal rapporteur, Mr Trine Bramsen, said that the evaluation carried out by the Public Service Act showed that some things had happened that were contrary to the political intention of the law and that it made sense to look at it. I just want to know if the Minister for Justice agrees with what the then Socialist Legal Rapporteur said?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131007	Not only do I agree with that, it was also what was executed on. You looked at the law, you just couldn't agree. The concerns that faced each other could not be met. It has been a very short time ago, and that is why it is my opinion that this has been mentioned, and it has been tried on a large scale, so there is no reason for us to go back on that straight away. It is not the same as that it cannot be relevant at some point, but the discussions there have been conducted and the ends could not be met.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131036	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131038	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I think that over the last year we have seen some cases of fraud in the Social Protection Agency, the teledata case in the Minister's own ministry, to mention some examples ^ which confirm to me that we need more openness in the administration so that the people can restore confidence in both the administration and also in us politicians. I just want to know whether the Minister is not thinking that there is a link between trust in the system and openness in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131117	Yes, that is also why there are basically as good opportunities for access to documents and for access to information as there is in fact. That was not in the questioner's remarks, but I think that we should be careful to establish equality between trust in the system and trust in us and then the public law. So, I really believe that the crisis of confidence that we are experiencing stands for a large number of other things. Let me give you an example: I think that some of the crisis of confidence that we are experiencing is that we sometimes get the message oversold politically, do not be honest and do not vote in anticipation. I also believe that we are spending a great deal of our time here bothering each other rather than trying constructively to find solutions. We pile each other up in consultation and everything else, which is not about getting smarter or finding a way forward, but which is basically just about making political jokes. I think that is much, much more important in terms of trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131218	Then it's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131220	I think it is very thoughtful that the only two parties that are left in the agreement from then on are the Social Democrats and the Left, in other words the two parties which have the longest tradition of being in power in Denmark. I just want to know if the Minister does not think there is any need for us to adjust the Public Service Act. Isn't there just one place, one crack where the minister thinks you've gone too far and you really ought to make some changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131254	I think it would be too much to stand in a place where it was said that the work was completed, that it could never get better, that now it was just as it should be. Moreover, politics must also develop in accordance with the context of what is going on in the world. And I have also noted that there has been a tendency for parties to fall out of the agreement here, the longer they have moved away from power. I shall not conclude on what creates the agility of some of the other parties in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131330	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131332	Of course, I find it interesting to hear what the Minister says. The Minister has mentioned that during the last parliamentary term there has been an attempt to relax the Public Service Act, which has failed, and therefore the Minister does not think that the Minister and the government should do anything. Now the Minister can see that down here there are some parties, yes, many parties, who are actually saying that those efforts should be resumed to ensure that we create greater access to what is going on in the public administration, also for the benefit of the confidence that has to be gained in what is going on in the public administration. So I cannot quite understand it if the Minister and the government stand on their back legs and say: we certainly do not want to talk about this with the parties. Have I understood correctly that the government is simply refusing to sit down at the end of some negotiations which could lead to us creating more openness in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131436	No, but here you have to listen to the old wise Chinese sage, Timing, because that is what this is all about. We are on the verge of negotiations which were quite difficult and which did not lead to anything. That we should now sit down and say that now we are going to get back to work immediately, with all the other things that are on the political palette, we simply do not think it appropriate. However, this is not the same as not recognising the evaluation that has been carried out and the desire for openness that exists and that we share. We are just on the view that it must be balanced with ensuring that there is a basis for making the best possible decisions. So I am not rejecting negotiations. I am just saying that, in our opinion, there is no reason to take them in the run-up to the big negotiations that have been going on and that have failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131537	We thank the Minister in the first place, and that is the debate we are embarking on. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114131555	Thank you. It is the case that we are, after all, parties that have been discussing this matter for some time, both before one and before the other and now after the third parliamentary elections, and we may not entirely agree on what things should look like, but at least we agree that there is a need for more openness, taught by the experience gained from the Public Access Act, which was launched in 2014, as we see it today. The reason for this is that we see it this way and it is true of SF, Enhedslisten, Conservative and Danish People's Party, and I think it is also true of other parties here in the Danish Parliament that the public administration must be open, it must be modern, it must be transparent, so that the Danes can have confidence in what is going on. And there is, of course, the Public Service Act aimed precisely at ensuring that citizens are able to keep track of what is happening in the public administration, both locally and at national level. It is extremely important that we have a tool for democratic control of the public authorities, for example. As a citizen, you can get into trouble in one case or another and thus have the opportunity to seek access to what the public system is doing. And the same goes for the public in relation to journalists who also need, as a tool, to try to decode what lies behind different decisions that are taken, for example. at Christiansborg. What we have been discussing is that there are, in particular, some provisions in the law that stand in the way of showing the openness and insight that is needed in a legal society such as the Danish one. And that is one of the issues. on the ministerial service rule, i.e. the one called § 24, and on the rule of parliamentary politics, § 27. To take the ministerial service rule first: that is to say, it was inserted because it wanted to protect the political space or the decision-making process between ministers internally and in government, etc. A free space would be created to exchange some political ideas before they move forward. This would then have to happen without the documents being covered by access to documents, so that citizens could gain insight into what was going on. However, the rule has therefore been applied if you look at what has been going on since 2014 and have been subject to a great deal of criticism, because in practice, contrary to perhaps the intention, it has led to quite substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. And that criticism is justified, among other things. read in the Ombudsman's statement of 2017, which deals precisely with where there are some challenges. Then there is the one called the rule of parliamentary politics. After all, it provides for the possibility of exempting documents between ministers and parliamentary politicians from correspondence. And it has to be said that it is very much criticised for weakening the public's insight and also for creating an imbalance, in fact, between the members of parliament who then get some answers, so that they get some correspondence, and those members of parliament, and those parties, of course, who do not get the correspondence in question and therefore, of course, cannot understand what is going on in a given case. So you really have two different levels of information in our people's government here. Well, you could call it the A-team and the B-team, where the A-team has considerably more information than others. And it is a legal state that is a little difficult to deal with for a democracy such as the Danish one, also in relation to the citizens' confidence in the administration, because people who want to keep up with what is going on in a given case are therefore prevented from being able to gain insight into what is going on in some cases. Then we also have, and perhaps we can discuss this a little later, the whole debate on publicly owned companies, where there are also some challenges and where we have more difficulty gaining insight into the current public law. Then there is the debate on mailing lists, where there is no doubt that it would be good to ensure better insight into public administration. This is true at national level, and it is also true at local level. So I think there are some good examples of why we on the part of the Danish Parliament will have to, if not now, but then it may be later because it is not certain that the minister thinks there is time in the calendar to look at it now, as I understand it on the answers that were given before • having a look at, sooner or later, how we can ensure a more open administration which corresponds to the requirement that we have in the present time for such a thing to happen. In conclusion, and here I will give a copy to the President, I will read out a proposal for adoption, with the permission of the President, on behalf of the parties who have asked for the debate on the question. I know that there are others who would like to support it, and you can account for this yourself for SF, Enhedslisten, Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. And it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that there is a need to make changes to the Public Act in order to re-establish an open, understandable and transparent administration in Denmark. The new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, introduced a number of exceptions for access to documents on the grounds that the political decision-making process would be protected. However, experience with the exceptions introduced has clearly shown that they have gone too far. Thus, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has concluded that public access to public access to documents has been significantly restricted by the new law, and experts have criticised the law for completely concealing the insight into political decision-making processes. Against this background, the Folketing instructs the government to carry out a review of the law with a view to achieving maximum transparency for citizens and the possibility of democratic control of public authorities. • V 44).
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132240	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132257	Thank you for that, President. As has also been mentioned by previous speakers on the floor, it is not the first time, and probably not the last time, that we will have this debate. However, this is, of course, a fine opportunity to highlight points of view and also to discuss some of what is, of course, a central foundation of our democracy, namely that control can be exercised over those who are in power, whether it is politicians or civil servants. It is, of course, one of the cornerstones of our Danish democracy that one must be able to trust that the laws are properly administered • whether it is by a minister or by officials. Trust in public administration is often called into question in these years, and perhaps I also think from my own experience, because now I come from having been a civil servant for two and a half years rather too much. In fact, if you measure it, there is still widespread confidence in our public authorities and institutions, and that is actually some of the strength of Danish democracy, that is, that we Danes have confidence in our institutions across the board. Trust in politicians is a little more difficult, and it is then a task for all of us to help to rectify it. That is why, of course, it will also be a key question as to what access is to control what is going on in the public administration. And, of course, there is a concern that, as a public, as a citizen and not least as a press, we should have the opportunity to look after the rulers in the cards, and at the same time we should also have the opportunity to manage within a reasonable limit, which means that we can actually have documents that are moved around without being final, and have some spaces and processes that allow us to process information, make proposals that are not final, and also dare to be creative. Sometimes it also presupposes that it can take place in a room that is difficult to follow from a screen. We know it here from the Folketing that in the name of transparency there are television cameras on at a number of the meetings we have in our committee, and it makes everything else equal that the tendency to give each other right or bend towards each other is less. Unfortunately, the same is also true in some of the debates in which we take part, when we represent our views and our parties in the media. But when we talk here in the corridors or in the corridors or in the committee rooms, when there is no camera on, yes, there is actually a great deal of collegiate understanding. And one of the strengths of Danish democracy, and not least the Danish Parliament, is that we bow to each other, that we are actually willing to work together. And it's hard to make that work work if there's always a camera or a big floodlight on it. That is why there is, of course, an entirely justified concern to ensure, on the one hand, openness and transparency in what is going on and, on the other hand, also to ensure the space that allows things to develop and unfold. I am not going to explain what has been going on. The Minister has mentioned this, and it has also been mentioned by others, that a great deal of time was actually spent under the then Conservative Minister for Justice, Søren Pape, to try to negotiate a compromise. Now I have been reading it and I think that much of what was in it was quite sensible. Then it ended up with a situation where both the Radical Left and the SF backed out of it and it was not possible to find a compromise. I'm not gonna botanize that, and I'm not gonna point my finger at it. It's just the way it is. But that is what we have just been following, and there I think it was spent a long time on it and did a very serious job of finding out whether a compromise could be reached. We could not do that, and that is why it is also very reasonable that we should then say: OK, then the law exists. That is why, as a Social Democrat, we cannot support what is in this question either. We have then, on the other hand, made a proposal for adoption with the Left, and I would like to read this out here: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there have been political discussions within the Conciliation Committee with a view to amending the Public Service Act. The Danish Parliament also notes that it has not been possible to reach agreement in conciliation on a change to the Public Service Act. Finally, the Danish Parliament notes that the Minister of Justice does not consider it necessary to reopen discussions on amending the Public Service Act. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132740	Thank you. That too will be part of the further debate. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132745	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that in recent weeks and months the Socialists have toured around with the desire to have more surveillance cameras around them. And it has to be understood that those surveillance cameras would rather not point to the government's own documents. That is not where we need to create more monitoring or more insight. So I just want to hear how this is connected, that is to say that it is thought that the Danes should be widely monitored even more than today, but that this does not apply to the government itself and its own documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132818	With all due respect to the authors of this quite fair and fair debate, there is no link between the two: combating gang crime, preventing terrorist attacks, ensuring that the police have effective investigative tools, and what we are discussing here, which is basically the relationship between openness and the work of the public administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132845	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132848	There is a great deal of coherence in relation to the signal you send, i.e. whether it is innocent Danes who have to be monitored or whether you think for yourself. It will create a little more transparency if we open the door to seeing more documents. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not see that it can be seen in the ordinary Dane that we have a government that would like to put up more cameras but does not want more insight into its own documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132917	I have to say that I think the context is thought. But if you now bought the premise, it is the case that far more than 95%. of the cameras hanging are reactive. It takes a warrant. This requires that it is significant crime that has been committed in order to gain access to those cameras. So these are really extreme relationships. And then I can reassure the questioner that the press's access to access to documents in my experience is somewhat easier than accessing these cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132942	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114132944	Thank you for the floor. The rapporteur refers to an earlier session where it was not possible to agree to amend the public law, and I have full respect for the fact that we now have a majority of the two parties, which are typically government-led, the Left and the Social Democrats, and that is why we can, in principle, do what we want. I don't hear that that's what they say. I hear they say that it has been long and that it has been hard, but that we are not taking it right now. Having said that, I really think it is a duty to acknowledge that we are in a new collection, a new composition there are also parties now, which are more free, compared to what they were before and to tell, because there are perhaps some people out there following: what was so crucial in the last session that one can now understand and also at that time understand that Radical Left and SF, which is one of the proposers here, could not be included and that thus one could not change the law at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133050	With all due respect to both the SF and the Radical Left, I think it is most fair that they themselves answer that question. Everything else will be easier, I think, than that I should be wondering what it was that made them step out of those negotiations. To the first part of recognising that we are a new collection, I would say that I do so in full. And we will, I hope, be able to discuss on a regular basis what it is like to ensure confidence in our public administration. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133116	Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133119	I fully agree that the SF and the Radical Left can explain for themselves what was the reason for going out, but on the other side of the table a number of parties must have been sitting on the other side of the table and it must then be all the other parties who have had some views that others could not accept. Then the Social Democrat rapporteur could not explain what is so crucial to the social democracy that agreement could not be reached at the last session?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133147	Well, now I've done my homework here too. In other words, one of the things that was discussed and that was on the table was to replace the ministerial service rule, which was a proposal to remove the rule and to replace it, which actually tried to make it more precise, in relation to what documents are exempt from access to documents. We were, as I understand it, ready to make an agreement on that. It could not be done, among other things. Because the conciliation circle crumbled and it was not possible to reach agreement on it. So that was some of the stuff on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133217	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133223	Thank you. I think it is interesting that we now have these two parties of secrecy, so we can call them the Social Democrats and the Left, who stand together with the majority of a mandate against everyone else, against the rogue, by maintaining that we are not going to talk to the Folketing about this. In fact, I think it is a bit pauvert or bad style that the Social Democrats and the Left are a brake on the fact that the law of secrecy, as many have called it, cannot be changed. Why not just listen to what it is, a great many parties, including the government's support parties, say in the Folketing, and then say: OK, now we wash the board clean, there has been parliamentary elections, let us start afresh, let us get started with something that gives more openness? Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133312	It is perhaps not so surprising that I think it is a rather harsh sentence to call us parties of secrecy, all the time that a very long, serious and thorough work has been done before we stand here today. An evaluation has been carried out, the Ombudsman has been mentioned, a very long time has been spent debating wordings, and what it ended up with was that there were parties that said that they would not be involved in this. So a long, great and serious job has been done. And even if we have had a parliamentary election and the board is washed clean, one can sense in some way that the positions have not completely changed, and that is why it is perhaps equally fresh enough to spend time jumping into a new long course of negotiations when a compromise could not be reached a few months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133405	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133407	Actually, I don't think it's very fresh. Actually, I think that's the facts. Right now we are in a situation where there is a new Parliament, and the Folketing can do whatever we want, that is to say, what a majority is for, and so we have two parties who, like us, have decided that the others should not be allowed to do so. Then there is something in the past where it could not be done, and there were some problems and such things as yes, yes, but there are many areas. Well, if we always said that because something happened sometime, we can't do anything now, we couldn't do much, could we?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133440	Well, it's not an entirely unknown phenomenon that what's crucial inside this floor is that there's a majority. After all, this is a premise for all the legislation we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133454	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133456	When the name of my party is mentioned, I also feel a little called to stand up because what divided the waters when we last discussed it was precisely the rule of ministerial service where we wanted more openness. And what was on the table would not really lead to more openness at all if one asked some of the journalists who had been awarded the Cavling Prize and who have, of course, uncovered some of the very spectacular cases, whether it would have meant that they could have broken the cases which, of course, are of public interest, because they answered no. So can the rapporteur not confirm that it all collapsed because it really did not want much more openness? Otherwise, the rapporteur must at least clarify to me where it was precisely that this clarification should lead to more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133545	At least now we have an open debate here, both to those who are sitting in this Chamber and to those who are listening. I wasn't part of those negotiations. I didn't even sit in the Folketing at the time, so I think it would be equally speculative for me to go in and judge what was just the one and the other in the negotiating room where it was going. I think I have tried to explain the broad lines of this and also to spend quite a long time trying to see if we could reach each other. However, I would like to say that I have also discussed this with some journalists, and I have asked them where the border is. In the perfect world, we have confidence that journalists can manage what is essential and what is not significant and when it is sourced, and then they could have access to all documents. After all, I do not think it is most of the people I have met who will represent that view. So there is some limit to what it is that has to be accessed in order to secure that room. I guess that's what we've been discussing when we tried to find a compromise.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133644	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133645	After all, we did not succeed in finding a compromise, and that was because there was a real difference between how far we would go. But perhaps the rapporteur can make me a little more aware of whether it is usual to make voting agreements that cannot be changed unless all parties are one hundred percent in agreement, in exactly this type of agreement? What is also at the heart of the matter here is that an agreement has been reached which can only be amended if all parties agree one hundred percent. And that really means that some people will always be able to sit and block a solution. I think that is really problematic. And I have noted that right now there is only one head start of one mandate for us to change the law on public access to documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133731	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133736	The first, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says, that there is a significant difference, simply confirms what I am trying to say here, namely that quite a long time has been spent on it. And then it is very normal in such a conciliation circle that all parties must agree. That is why both the SF and the Radicals announced before the elections that they would step out of the conciliation circle in order to be freer. This is, of course, a fairly common way of acting, which is both responsible and which also ensures that there is some continuity in the agreements that are being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133806	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133809	Thank you. Now, as you know, we are not in the Enhedslisten because we think it is really bad. But I'd like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus on what is so dangerous about openness in the administration. Well, why would it be a problem to open up more? I can, of course, hear from the rapporteur that the Social Democrats have a limit, and then we can hear that in the negotiations there were some who had some limits that were somewhere else. But what is really the basic problem, the dangerous one, by opening up more? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133845	Well, in the perfect world, there would be no problems. In other words, everything would be open: you would be able to walk in from the street and a journalist would be able to have access to all documents. What is the challenge is that it will be difficult to manage the process that is both about creating some legislative work, but also about moving papers around and having different comments on it. I myself have been trying it on my own for two and a half years when I was in the Tax Administration, where it is that sometimes you can work without having a large floodlight on you, just like the example I gave before with the work we do in our committee here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133935	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114133937	I therefore agree that there must, of course, be a room to work, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus calls it. We can also call it a room for negotiation or a space for confidentiality. However, why is it considered that that space was not there before the public law was amended back in the negotiations in 2013 and entered into force in 2014? Didn't that room exist there? Because I think that was actually there before the public law was made this popularly known as a law of secrecy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134008	Well, now I don't have to know 100% of the debate back almost six years ago, but it can be said that things are evolving. There was also a time when you had full access to the Minister's calendar and were able to keep up with the arrangements and how and how you spent so much time entertaining each other. Of course, someone may think that it is quite reasonable to have full access to and fully illuminated. On the other hand, it has to be said that there is perhaps also a reasonable requirement that it is not necessarily appropriate, and that is how things develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134041	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134052	Thank you. The Public Service Act, or as the right one, is: The Public Service Act is not one of the laws we so change in time and early. The public law we had came into force on 1 January 1987 and then took 27 years before we got a new one, which saw here for approx. 14 days ago could celebrate its six-year anniversary. When we amended the Public Service Act, it was not the case that we just got together in some conciliation circle and found out: Well, what do we think should be in a new public law? A committee was set up with the then, now former Ombudsman Hans Gammeltoft-Hansen in the lead, and they produced a huge report which very, very thoroughly illustrated where the applicable public law might need modernisation. And some of the things that had changed since 1987 were, among other things, the same. The emergence of various electronic means of communication text messages and e-mails as probably the primary one. Where the situation in 1987 and before that was that much was going on in meetings and telephone conversations, much of the conversation today takes place in written form, which is in fact oral somewhere, but in writing and in the form of text messages and e-mails. Another thing that had changed was that earlier legislative preparatory work took place to a very large extent within the individual ministry, and what was then observed was that the legislative preparatory work had changed in nature, so that much of it is done today by talking across ministries. In other words, when the Ministry of Justice makes a law, you ask in the Ministry of Finance or in the Ministry of Transport or elsewhere if they can provide any relevant input. And in the same way, governments have become much more prominent in the legislative work today. One of the examples cited was such a thing as the Danish Business Administration. Today it is an independent government. When the Public Service Act was drawn up in 1987, the Board was thus part of the then Ministry. So it was part of the ministry, but when you were out asking a board, there was suddenly access to documents. This was not considered appropriate. It was considered that there should be more talk of the government being a collective where ministers had the opportunity to draw on information from the other ministries, just as it does in a municipality. It is not the case today that there is a right of access to the correspondence between the Children and Young People's Department in a municipality and then the administration of the economy, because it is considered as a single municipality. In the same way: if a councilman sends an e-mail to the mayor about where, for example. In the future budget negotiations, this is not something we have access to. So these are rules that, as such, already operate in the public administration, including in a number of other countries. It was then proposed that it should now apply broadly. Then we had a very, very long debate at that time six years ago in connection with the amendment of the Public Service Act, and it has been going on ever since, but not to exactly the same extent. And when you think back to the debate at the time, you can enjoy in your quiet mind the fact that newspapers can still be published and Cavling prizes distributed and news broadcasts sent every night, because you got the impression that this would be almost impossible in the future. Does this mean that when we amended the law on public access to documents, we were hit in such a clean way? No, probably not. I have also said before that we in the Left have been sorry that the principle of public access to documents does not apply to the extent that we had assumed, and also that the principle of public access to documents is applied differently from ministry to ministry. That is why the Secretary of State for the Left, Mr Søren Pind, took the lead in looking at whether we could make some changes. When the work went to the Conservative Minister for Justice, Mr Søren Pape Poulsen, we can only say that it was certainly not achieved. That is why I have to say that I am a little surprised to see that the Conservative People's Party is co-sponsored in today's question debate when you did not sort of solve the task when you had the opportunity. I have also asked several times in the past for what is practically what the parties would like. What changes in the law could be envisaged in concrete terms rather than mere plundering that we want something more public and that there should be less cover-up? Make some concrete suggestions. This was not done at the time in the negotiations, and that was probably a factor in the truth. Now we're where we are. S and V have a majority in the Folketing, and there were probably some who had thought that this was a situation that would not happen and that it would then be possible to come up with something. That was not the case, but let us take the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134613	We do. First of all, it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134617	After all, the rapporteur was calling for something concrete. How about rolling back the changes made to the ministerial service rule? I think that is really concrete. What does the rapporteur think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134631	I think that would be a terrible idea, because that was what Hans Gammeltoft-Hansen said at the head that time had run out. Before we got the ministerial service rule, we had Article 10 of the Public Act, which applied only to the individual ministry. So, the Minister of Justice could ask his officials to come up with good ideas and input, etc., but if he went to a board, or if he went to another ministry, there was full access. That is what the report said was most inappropriate. The reality today is that the ministries work across the board, I think we should be happy about that, because it benefits the legislative process, but then there was a need for similar rules. So we would think it was a bad idea to roll back the time back to 1987, not just here, but in many other areas just aside from the music, perhaps.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134718	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134723	Well, that just confirms that the Left isn't interested in making changes. We are standing here calling for concrete action, but the rapporteur knows what the parties around here want to see the large minority wishing to change. Now it was true that a report was submitted, but there were also some who withdrew from it afterwards and could not recommend and measure up to what was actually in the report when they realized what they had agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134752	Yes, it is true that some people got cold feet when they saw that there were a number of journalists who thought it was bad. Then, among other things, there were... Those appointed by the Danish Journalist Federation, who suddenly thought that what they had signed in the report was a bad idea. It's a little late. So, the idea of a report is to assume that they have settled their differences before they are finished. But it is true that there were some who did not have so much ice in their stomach when it came to the play. And as I said, we could change some things, but I find it difficult to see the great progress in rolling back time back to 1987. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134823	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134824	Thank you for the floor. After all, such a debate here is easily very black and white, and I have full respect for the fact that we must also be able to work and do some things and, like the exploration of the terrain, without being put to public view and felled on something that is, in fact, a constructive piece of work. I think we all know this, at least those of us who have our everyday lives outside political life. There is a lot going on that is a prelude, and you go one way, and you go the other way, and finally you land in the right place. So my purpose is not to be black-and-white or polemical. I have deep, deep respect for the rule of the people. I have deep respect that the people we represent in here are the citizens out there who get their knowledge of what is going on, through the media or through what they can see when we are here, through open consultation and other things. I also understand what Mr. Jeppe Bruus said earlier: when we are in open consultation and major debates, it becomes very confrontational. When we go around the back, we can find the nuances more easily and find each other. But there is, of course, a difference between whether it is a government or whether it is representatives of the people's regime of various political observers who are discussing, and here we are talking about the government. Does the rapporteur, as a Liberal, not see that when we are at a time when politicians are deciding more and more and when we are increasingly regulated and, at the same time, when we have less openness about what is going on, we are moving in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134952	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114134954	No, I think it is too square to say that there has been less publicity with the Public Service Act. There are some areas where this is true. That goes without saying when you can no longer have access to a document that is exchanged between a ministry and a board, which you could then have access to. On the other hand, there are other areas where more access to documents can be obtained. For example: this was with companies in which the public sector owns a certain share of the shares, one of the places where we extended the Public Procurement Act, so that, in future, access to those companies could be obtained unless they were on a list that made it impossible to do so anyway. When we saw the list from the then Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov's side, we could see that it was the rule rather than the exception that the companies had come on this list, and we were disappointed at that. So it's not like I'm saying there's nothing we can look at and things we can change. It is there, but it did not succeed in reaching an agreement. And the thing about just saying, as I understand it is SF's bid, that we just have to scrap the Public Act and then roll back time to 1987, because it was a good law we had then, is not a viable path.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135101	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135103	Thank you. I also agree that the intention was to have more openness. When you read the Ombudsman's conclusions, I just think that the challenges posed by the rule of ministerial service, which is, after all, the one you would have removed completely, have drawn so much in the wrong direction that the intentions that were in relation to more openness have not really created the greater openness in the overall weight bowl that was going to this. I am glad that the rapporteur says that there is something that can be worked on and that it is not that categorical rejection, as it sounded a little in the opening speech, and that is just my final comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135144	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135147	I'm rarely categorical. You have to be careful about that at all. One cannot do without some form of ministerial service exemption from a rule of access to documents. You cannot, but you can discuss when something is ministerial service and when it is not ministerial service. That was exactly what was in the negotiations we had, which unfortunately failed: rather than the rule we now have, where it is so that if one considers that a document could at some point be very nice for a minister to have, one can exempt it from access to documents, then I think it would have been a good change just to get it more clear when it is that documents can be exempted from access to documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135225	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135228	Thank you. First of all, I would like to challenge the fact that the parties that wish to amend the Public Service Act have no indication of what needs to be changed. There was, of course, a question debate last year, F 9, where it was clear that there were a number of parties that wanted the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary rule to be abolished, that publicly owned companies can only be exempted from access by a parliamentary decision, so that access to them cannot be undermined by exemption notices and that the deadlines set for replying to requests for access to documents are respected. So I just want to start by saying that. I even think it was the rapporteur who is standing on the platform now, who was also the rapporteur at the question debate at the time, and who said that the rapporteur would have liked us to have been able to reach an agreement on a review of the Public Service Act. I just want to know whether that is still the rapporteur's wish and ambition on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135326	It would have been good if a settlement had been reached at the time. I think so, and we should not deny that we can do it again at another time. But that requires a settlement. So the public law is not the kind of thing you have to go around changing in time and early. And that thing about removing the rule of parliamentary politics and the rule of ministerial service is no good. Then you have to put something else in place. Of course, the rule of parliamentary politics can be discussed, but personally I would think it was very inhibiting for my work as a parliament politician that I could not communicate with a minister on the media on which we communicate with each other in 2020, i.e... texts and emails, without having to think very carefully about the fact that it could be on the front page of B.T. And the extra magazine the next day. There is, of course, a reason why we do not have live transmissions from our group meetings etc., although I am quite sure that many journalists, not least on a day like today, could find it exciting. But it is because it is really nice to have a place where you can discuss things in writing or orally without it being on the front page of the newspaper the next day. Journalists themselves have the possibility of protecting their sources. Why is this so important? Why can't we have a lot of openness? Let's hear who these reporters have been talking to, shall we? That could be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135436	Yeah, that could be interesting. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135437	At any rate, we were able to make it clear that those who wanted to amend the Public Service Act made a proposal for adoption at the time, in which these very specific proposals on what to change were included. The rapporteur said that, at least at the time, the Left wanted a review and hoped that it could be achieved. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any idea that it would be a good idea to do this today or this year. Could we put a little turbo on the good ideas, so it wasn't just something you had back then? Is that still a wish from the Left today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135510	Let us just address some of the specific changes that came at that time. The radical rapporteur himself mentioned the question of when to have access to documents. I also find it frustrating that some people should wait as long for access to documents as they should, and that there is that very, very big difference from ministry to ministry. But when a ministry did not comply with a 10-day rule and does not comply with a 7-day rule, why should they comply with a 5-day rule? Perhaps the law we have today could be addressed there and, first of all, ask whether it is realistic time limits that we have set and then find realistic time limits and, secondly, be after the ministries that do not comply with the time limits, rather than saying that we need to narrow it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135549	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135551	I have to admit that I have a little difficulty in understanding why the Left, together with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I also mentioned this before blocking the fact that we can get to work on the work that I actually think the rapporteur himself says may be needed. The rapporteur tells Mr Seligman here in reply. Kristian Hegaard, that we could go in and make a change as to how long it has to be before you can get answers from the ministries and claim that there is a problem here. Yeah, there's a huge problem. Because the public law states that you will respond more quickly. But you don't. I'm afraid you don't. That is why I wonder why it should take so long to recognise it and make the necessary changes, as the rapporteur himself has just said. Why does it have to? Is it because the government doesn't have time? Is it because the Left doesn't want to? What's the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135651	That's where I think sir. Peter Skaarup misunderstood my point. In other words, my point was that the ministries, which are very, very slow in providing access to documents, are not least the Ministry of Justice. Because we can see that the current public law is not being observed. So let us pull the ministers in consultation and scold them and so on. That they don't have control of the store. After all, we do not need a new public law to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135719	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135721	The rapporteur actually said in his first speech that we could change the law so that the ministries were given more time to respond. That is what I was reflecting on, because it is probably an important part of it if we are to ensure that the ministries do what they have to do, that is to say, that they are in agreement with expectations. And if the rapporteur thinks that the ministries should change their behaviour, it might be a good solution to take the opportunity to change the law precisely. That's why I don't really understand when there's so much dissatisfaction with this, when you don't live up to expectations, even if more public opinion... why you don't want to change it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135800	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135802	But again, I would like to say to the public that I think it will be difficult to write that provision differently. I think this is about the culture that exists in some ministries to a greater extent than in other ministries. Because we can see that there is a difference in practice between ministry and ministry, as to the extent to which more publicity is given. That is why I do not believe that the answer to that is a change in the law either. So, that is not to say that there could not be a good change in the law. We were willing to do so in the last period. That is not what is just on the agenda now. However, many of the things we are unhappy with can be done without going in and changing the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135842	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135844	Thank you. I just got there in the course of sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's speech to think about the fact that, in principle, it is possible to keep those things in the current public law which have created more openness, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen argues for, and then remove the things that have given the secrecy that many of us are dissatisfied with. I guess you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114135912	Yes, it could be done, but it then requires one to be on the premise that there is the enormous secrecy in what one can get access to and what one cannot get access to, and so I do not buy a hundred percent of that paragraph. I agree that some ministries could give much more publicity than they do today, but that there should be such a duvet laid down over the public administration, which makes no light come out, and that everything is going on belly etc., I do not think that is a proper representation of reality. It is also forgotten that there are a large number of cases where there are no exceptions to public access to documents, for example. in concrete decisions on cases in ministries, in representation accounts, and what I know. There are plenty of things where it is completely open. It is the political decision-making process itself, where there is therefore a need to have the possibility of some probes in some confidential spaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140018	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140019	Exactly the possibility of political probes also existed before changing the Public Service Act, which came into force in 2014, so I cannot understand why the Left saw not only support for the good things that lie in the new Public Service Act, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has argued, and then removes the things that have actually given more secrecy. One final point must be that, although we may all think it is interesting what is going on at each other's group meetings, perhaps particularly at the moment on the Left, there is, after all, a very large difference between public administration and a private political party. Therefore, I do not think it is quite possible to compare whether journalists should have access to our group meetings and whether they should have access to public administration. So these are two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140106	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140107	Yes, it is because we have decided it should be. Political parties are an essential part of the rule of the people, the fourth state power, that is to say the press, is essential. It's just that we made it up, that's why it's supposed to be like that. One might as well argue that there should be access to the salary of the editor-in-chief of the Ekstrabladet Poul Madsen, whom he talks to, etc. There are plenty of things you can argue for, but it is just because we have decided that there is that distinction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140142	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140250	Thank you for that, and thank you for the opportunity to speak a little about the law of public opinion, which is very much at the heart of the Radical Left. One may wonder at the government when it is so busy and very busy setting up cameras everywhere, but that the cameras should not point to government documents. It is innocent Danes who need to be monitored more, one must understand, but not the government itself, who is immediately more restrained when it is they themselves who have to look into the documents. Monitoring at the strawberry shop is obviously more important than the press's monitoring of the government estate. Recently, we had a debate on this subject with logical associations, and it could be said that with increased access to public access, transparency in political decisions and confidence in the political system and openness in the public sector increases transparency, trust and openness. It must follow logically that it provides greater security for decisions taken, security for the actions of those in power. And if we say that it is true that as security increases, freedom must also increase, changes in the law of public opinion thereby increase freedom and freedom. There are many good reasons to look at changes in the Public Service Act. Last year there was a disheartening report from the EU anti-corruption unit GRECO on inter alia. Public disclosure law, and this is the first time that we have been criticized at international level for our public access to information • criticism for the exceptions that prevent public access to information. In particular, on page 20 of the report, there is a strong criticism of the use of the many exceptions to public access to documents, which it is strongly called upon to make up for. Of course, the Radical Left hopes that it will be able to call for discussion on how we respond to that criticism, and we would urge it to do so. Denmark has an interest in appearing as a country that is open, also among the open ones that the anti-corruption unit GRECO is not after, because it strengthens confidence in us as a country, and it will strengthen confidence in us as politicians, because openness begets trust, and secrecy begets the opposite. Trust in politicians is already too small, and we will take a stand with the increasingly closed way in which power is managed in Denmark. So let's pull the blackout curtain off. We regret the fact that the Socialists and the Left are currently holding the deadlock in an iron grip with the narrowest possible majority preventing increased openness. As an open country, it can never be our interest with a darkening secrecy The main problem with the current public law is that more is being opened up to when exceptions can be made to release documents. The interpretation of the secrecy has been extended. The central concept is among other things: minister service, and that concept is now interpreted much wider than what was intended, thus exempting more documents from publication. Let us gather together to open where it has been shut down, because power does not weaken by being controlled. Spring is coming soon, so let us withdraw the blackout curtain, let the sun and openness point to government documents, because our democracy and society are getting stronger by the fact that it is the government that is being controlled rather than the strawberry farmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140701	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140705	All I have to do is ask if sir... Kristian Hegaard can tell whether his own party was in government when the Public Act was put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140713	We did so, and it is no secret that what has become the interpretation and what has become the exercise of the public law in relation to that time is, of course, a much wider interpretation. In addition, I actually think it is healthy sometimes to become wiser in politics, and we have become so. I was not myself in the Folketing then, but we have become wiser, especially when it comes to the Public Service Act here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140741	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140742	I think this is the first time that I have heard a radical saying that one has become wiser; I simply thought that the stage had been reached for the highest possible human development, but it is nice to establish it. But I think that when you hear the speech, it's a little hard to believe that it's the same party that was involved in conducting the law and that today is giving a speech that might be more suitable for an annual celebration at the Danish Journalist Federation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140809	Maybe I should try to make that speech there then. Nevertheless, I believe that it is a healthy principle in a democratic society that all people can become wiser. I have also noted that, to some extent, the Left has unfortunately changed its position; at least it is not as clear where the public law of the Left is going, in relation to the government basis created with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, where there were more positive notes. I hope they will come back soon so that we can have a more open public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140842	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114140904	This is kind of a déjà vu thing. When the SF was in government, I helped make the current public law. We cannot get away from that, I cannot run away from it, and we must of course stand by that today. It was the price of being part of a government, but it wasn't pretty, and now I'm standing here again. SF has taken a lot of beatings for this law, and it's probably also been justified, and I think the important thing is that you can get smarter again. Now we are standing here, and the settlement of the Public Prosecution Act has been terminated. It is because we in the SF want more openness and transparency in public administration. I think that is a very good thing, and the good thing is that we are now a fairly large minority. The pity is that it is the two parties that are usually in power and have a majority that will not change it. I think it is thought-provoking in itself, and I think it is thought-provoking that the law is so insidious that all parties must agree if it is to be amended. It has become a very effective safeguard against changing the agreement and thus maintaining the parties to it. After all, the Ombudsman has made it very clear that there have been significant restrictions in the transparency of the 2014 Public Procurement Act, and that is no good. Powers must be able to tolerate being looked at in the cards, and this therefore requires citizens and journalists to have the opportunity to gain knowledge and insight into the political decision-making processes. I very much understand that you may need a confidential space and you need to have it discussed political action in it. But when you have finished discussing and have settled on a solution, it should also be possible to test the pressure, and it should be possible to check why and how to make choices and opt-outs in that process. It must be able to hold an open debate. We have clearly different views here in the Parliamentary Assembly about the degree of openness or what it is that needs to be changed, and I know that we have discussed this today ■ that while I have not been sitting in the Folketing for the last four years, there have been negotiations that have just failed without landing a solution. I would like to call for a real process to be relaunched and for a new proposal to be put forward to ensure more openness in the administration. The SF can therefore support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Peter Skaarup has made today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141145	I would like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt: when you have experienced the whole of this farce, as it has certainly been in fact, that you adopt a public law and say that it has to be evaluated, because it may be that there are some places that need to be changed, and all sorts of people sit down and find out where it is that you can change it, including the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, and then in 2020 you will show up and see a government that refuses to listen to it, which at least very many parties here in the Danish Parliament want, namely to look at things again, isn't it a rather strange feeling? And does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt not also agree that the rules of the game relating to public administration should actually be something on which the parties of the Folketing should be relatively broadly agreed? Is this not one of the cases in which a government should listen to a very, very large minority and, like, make sure that something can now be done that everyone can think is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141249	I very much agree with that. I think we should have the courage to be looked at in the cards, also because it is a democracy in which citizens have the right to know what choices we are making in political life. Once we've discussed it and had the confidential space, I think it's good Latin that you can let that pressure test and test it afterwards. Then you have to measure up to the choices you have made, whether they are popular or unpopular, and the evaluation was actually one of the things that the SF emphasised when making the legislation, and therefore I am annoyed today that it is gradually not going to listen to the very large minority in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141340	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141352	Thank you. Publicity in the administration is quite fundamental to our democracy, and when we are co-inviters to this question debate, it is, in fact, partly because we believe that, with regard to several of the issues that have been looked at lately, with the old public law, it would have been possible to get to the bottom of it and that we would have been able to discover the mistakes that have been made, for example. The teledata case and the Social Services Agency, something earlier. We think it is important that we ensure public access to the administration and we also think that the last time has shown that there is a need for more openness and not less openness, and that is why I am glad that we have this debate today on how we can ensure it. For openness in the administration and around the rulers at the heart of the administration, in other words in the ministries at Slotsholmen, in the departments, is the prerequisite for us to have a democracy and for citizens and the public to be able to control the way in which the rulers do their work. That's one of them. That is why we call the press and the public part of the state power, and I believe, in fact, that the distrust that we are experiencing for politicians and decision-makers and the distance that we are experiencing between politicians and citizens can be reduced if we increase democratic control. I therefore agree with the Minister for Justice that there may be many reasons for the crisis of confidence that we have at the moment, and I also believe that some of the privileges that politicians have today contribute to the crisis of confidence, but I therefore believe that if there was more openness in the administration, and I also believe that what can be said would have a positive effect on what we usually call the democratic conversation in society. When it comes to the concrete stages of development that the Public Service Act has been going through, as several have also mentioned, because it is precisely a law that we have been dealing with for many years and although I can agree with Mr Tugendhat. Jan E. Jørgensen in that it is not just such a law that you have to go and change from one day to the next, I do not think that is what is at issue here either, because it is something we are discussing very thoroughly and are very concerned about in here that there is a trend that has been in changing attitudes, depending on how close you are to the ministerial cars and the ministerial taboos. The further away from the taboos you are, the more you are in some way in favour of openness. It is as if there is such a curve where you can see how close the party is to government when it comes to their attitude towards public opinion in the administration. But I believe and hope that at some point the sun and moon and stars will stand in such a way that we manage to change the public law so that it becomes more open. That is why it is also very important for us, and that is why I would also like to recognise those parties that have changed their positions and which have become wiser. I think that is very nice, and I note that the mandates in this session should not move very much until suddenly there is a majority in favour of a new public law. I think that would only be nice. After all, there are several elements that have been changed by the law, and there are three rules in particular that have been discussed a great deal and that we have also mentioned today, so I shall not go into them further. I would just like to highlight the important point that if we had always had the public law that we have today, there would be so many cases that actually have the public, but above all, I think the interest of democracy that would not have emerged. Well, that's what it's all about. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Minister of Health and opposed the recommendation of the civil servants, which led to an overpayment of the private hospitals. It would never have come out if we had had the public law we have today. Nor would the basis of the Iraq war have been established if we had had the public law we have today. There were prisoners who were extradited to the Americans for torture, and parts of that scandal would not have appeared if we had had the public law we have today. That is why I do not really think it is just small things that we are discussing about what text messages and e-mails are sent between parliamentary politicians and ministers. After all, these are things that are much, much greater, namely the control that the public, in other words the citizens, can have with the rulers, and which is absolutely crucial in a democracy. That is why, in the Enhedsliste, we also want the Public Service Act to be more open, and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, from the Left, has called for concrete proposals, and here there is one more concrete one in addition to those which Mr. Kristian Hegaard has read out earlier: We could just create the Public Access Act so that it follows the rules of the Environmental Information Act, which actually comes from the European Union, and which is much more open and offers much better opportunities for access to documents than the Public Access Act we have in Denmark. At least that could be an option. Then I just have one last thing, which I think it might be important to say, because some of what I think is getting too little attention is the rule of parliamentary politics, which is, after all, about what happens when we negotiate, and this is just a thought example: if the Danish People's Party should get the government on something that is contrary to human rights and that the government had been warned about, it was not relevant for us to know that the government had been warned about it? Or I can take my own side as an example. If Enhedslisten and the government were to be so fortunate once again to conclude a Finance Act and we in the Enhedslisten had been warned that the Finance Act would increase inequality, did not the public have a right to know? I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114141958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142010	Thank you. How can we ensure that citizens gain insight into how their tax dollars are used? This is precisely what this question debate is about, and we are doing this first and foremost by showing openness in the work of public administration. Whether the work is in a board or a minister, the aim must always be to create as much openness as possible. In other words, we must avoid being closed down in ministries and agencies, because it is a democratic basic principle that citizens have an insight into the work being done by the authorities. The Conservative People's Party's position on the Public Service Act has been known since 2015, when our party chairman at our National Council announced that we would have a new public law with greater transparency and transparency. We were also mentioned in the government base when we entered the government in 2016 that we wanted to relax the Public Access Act. We got that written into the government base. It stated that the government would undermine the protection of the internal and political decision-making process of the ministerial service rule in relation to the current rules. At least that is what was in the government base. The then Minister for Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, also tried to draw up a draft law for a new public law, but he did not really succeed, and then he had to give up. We are in the question debate here today and the proposal for adoption, and one of the most important things about the proposal for adoption is an invitation to the government to revise the Public Access Act so that there will be more openness and not less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142202	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I am in the position that the next rapporteur should have been Mr. Sikandar Siddique, but he is not present at the moment, and that is why it will now be Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142226	The Publicity Act should be amended in order to create significantly more openness among the authorities. Transparency was the starting point of the previous public law, and that should be the case again. A wide range of practical documents, e.g.: draft documents of speech, press releases, answers to parliamentary questions, statements, catalogs of ideas and action plans can, as a rule, be exempted from access to documents even if they have been exchanged between different authorities. Following the previous law on public disclosure in the administration, the starting point was the opposite. Access to these types of documents could only be restricted to the extent, for example, that: were documents drawn up for meetings between ministers or when it could be shown that secrecy was required to protect the political decision-making process. The worst is the ministerial service rule, which has also been mentioned several times today. It was originally intended to lead to better advice from officials and thus better regulation. However, there is no point in believing that the ministerial service rule in its current wording leads to anything other than cover-up. The Ombudsman has concluded that Article 24 of the Public Procurement Act has led to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. This is true despite the fact that the Ombudsman also concluded that the provision is being applied legally correctly. It is therefore not the application of the ministerial service rule by the official body that is the problem. That is the rule of ministerial service in itself and the wording it has. The restoration of citizens' access to access to key documents is of particular importance, because no minister must be able to conceal the full basis for the decisions taken by the Minister on behalf of the people's regime. That is why New Citizens support the proposal for adoption drawn up by the four parties and distributed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142450	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142508	Thank you for the floor. We recognise that there must be a balance between openness and confidentiality, but when we have always opposed the changes in the Public Service Act introduced in 2014, it is because the balance tipped there; it became significantly more difficult to gain insight into public administration. And that insight must be provided, because it is absolutely essential for trust in the authorities, for us politicians and for management decisions that there is openness in the administration. Before we had democracy, we had gehejmekonseil and gehejmekonseil, and geheim means just secretly in German. In democracy we have openness there it is not geheim. We have open hearings and every citizen has the right to attend meetings here in the Assembly Hall or in a municipal council. This is a good principle and we would like to work to ensure that the balance is restored to where it was earlier. In addition to the fact that it is about democracy, it is also about legal certainty. If we in power cannot be looked at in the cards, then citizens can risk their rights being trampled underfoot. The Public Act we received in 2014 was a step in the wrong direction, away from openness in the administration and everything, far too far towards cover-up and secrecy, so we therefore support the proposers' proposals for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142700	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we have the last rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114142710	Thank you to the President-in-Office for allowing me to speak outside the right order. No democracy is nurtured in power, by the fact that power is ringing itself, so that, as members of parliament, it is one of our prime tasks to protect democracy. It is not by holding on to power, but by sharing it and making it transparent. It is not without reason that the Public Service Act has been given the elected nickname blackout law. With the current Public Act, we have achieved exactly the opposite of the original intention, for the Public Act was originally set in the world to ensure freedom of information and expression, to ensure citizens' participation in democracy, to ensure public control over public administration, to provide the media with information to the public and, finally, to maintain public confidence in public administration. Today it has become significantly harder for the public and the citizens to see the government and us politicians over their shoulders. The most striking criticisms are, of course, well known: Article 22 on the right of access to documents, which does not include cases relating to the organisation of calendars, Article 24 on the service of ministers, which removes the right of access to documents and information exchanged between ministries and which may be assumed to be necessary by the ministers, and, finally, Article 27 (1). 2 which removes the right of access to documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament and which deal with legislation and other political processes. I hope that, with what we know today, there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that will help to ensure that the blackout law is again the law of openness that Danish democracy and we Danish citizens deserve. We need a new public law, but the alternative also proposes that the Folketing set up a transparency committee, a committee of experts which regularly, for example every two years, makes recommendations on how to create more openness in public administration and in the political decision-making processes in the government and here in the Folketing. The Transparency Committee must make recommendations to which the government is subsequently obliged to respond. If the committee's recommendations are not followed, the government, if it were up to us, must explain why it does not believe it is necessary. In other words, the alternative does not just want a new public law. We also want a transparency committee, because if the people and the media experience time and again that power shuts itself down, the result is not only increasing political leadership, but also decreasing confidence and support for our democratic institutions. No one can do that. The alternative supports Mr. Peter Skaarup's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143010	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143015	Thank you for the floor. The alternative has, of course, taken the form of a party which, among other things, is: I would like to talk about openness, democracy and democratic processes, but yet it seems that there is no end to how many committees, expert councils and special things need to be set up to be intermediaries between citizens and politicians. I cannot help thinking: do you have no confidence that the citizens themselves will be able to function out there and the people's rule? Now we are dealing with something very concrete, and once again we are hearing about a committee of experts who must give advice. We have an official job so large that we think it is a lie; we have people sitting and serving us in the head and in the butt, both in our own secretariats, in the committees and also in the ministries. Is there no limit to how many people are going to work at raising-sunk tables if it is up to the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143122	The alternative is not a party that has just looked up for democracy and transparency. Every day we work for democracy, openness and transparency, it is actually our fundamental values in the Alternative. When we want to have a transparency committee, it is simply because we should just take the debate here today. There is a majority in the Folketing who will not revise this legislation, although there is so much criticism of it. At the same time, we are experiencing a lot of politicians, we are seeing that confidence is falling, I think it was used car dealers and politicians who were at the same level, in terms of whom the citizens had the least confidence. That is why we believe that we need to set up this committee so that we can find out how to make democracy more transparent, more transparent and more involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143231	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143231-2	All due respect for that. After all, we agree on the proposal for adoption that is being presented today, but respect for democracy is also about respect for the majority, and if there is a majority that wants something else, then everything else must also respect it and say: if we think we have such a good case, then we must either try to convince the other parties or try to convince more voters in the next elections. I have to say that I am almost getting red rashes on my body and that everything is sticking to me when I hear about all these committees that need to be set up and about experts and people who need to give advice. I think we have everything However, let us simplify the people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143315	Thank you to the questioner. Before the President gets red buds, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143319	Well, that's exactly what the alternative does. That's exactly what I'm doing right now. I stand here arguing that we need more openness. Of course, we respect the fact that there is a majority, and that is the case, but we will always be advocating openness and transparency. Then it is also important for me to stress that in the alternative, we are very, very concerned that the policy we are making, that what we legislate about is not emotional but evidence-based, and therefore it is true that the policy of the alternative is very often influenced by what experts in the various disciplines say.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143401	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person on the platform will thus be the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143416	Thank you for the debate. In fact, we are probably at the point where we can ask whether there is anyone at all who disagrees with the principle of a common desire for openness, but also a recognition that there must be some kind of confidential space, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I guess everyone really agrees about that, doesn't it? Throughout the period in which we have had a public law, it has also been the case that the internal and political decision-making process has been regarded as a protectionable consideration. In other words, when people say that there must be as much openness as possible, I would just point out in all peace that I think we are all agreed on this, but all the way through, we have also agreed that there is also a disproportionate consideration and that balance must be found. What is now the question is whether that balance has been struck in the right way. Did you hit right in the closet the way it is now? We have had that discussion and we will continue to have that discussion. It was close to shifting the balance, but could not agree on it because there were quite extensive negotiations. In fact, I think that it was Mrs Pernille Vermund who said it most precisely when she said at one point: it has been a long time and it has been hard; we are not taking that now. And that is really the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143622	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143626	Thank you. So, the logic of the Minister here, the logic of the government, is that because before the parliamentary elections we have tried to reach agreement on some of the things that we have also discussed in this Chamber today, we should not look at the matter again. But you can say: if you used that logic in many of the things we are dealing with in here at Christiansborg, then there was a lot we couldn't get to grips with. Because there are a lot of cases where there can be fresh eyes on some things, and where you are taught by an election result, too, do things in a different way. Let me just think about the Finance Act and also bring the Minister's thoughts to it, that is to say the Finance Act: well, there are many things in it that have been discussed in the past, but where new solutions can be found, and then you can discuss whether these are sensible solutions or not. So is it really not the core of the people's regime that lectured on what the citizens are pointing to, should we in here try to find solutions? And here it is the government that will not find solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143739	But if you put it to the test, you just have to say: there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that supports the public law as it stands, and therefore there is no need to discuss it. I think that would be tightening it up. Because it is true that there may well be other circumstances which require that it may be sensible to look at things again. If, in reality, new circumstances have arisen. This is, of course, one of the things that most often leads us to change political positions or regulation, that is, when the context becomes different. However, when one has just been through a negotiation process or has such a temporal proximity to a negotiation process, the fact that is best when it comes to finding out what we are going to do is, in fact, to ensure some degree of temporal distance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143820	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143822	I must admit that I cannot quite buy the logic that the Minister and the government are putting forward here. Because we are at a time when the citizens are becoming insecure about some supporting social elements such as taxes, like the police, as the defence, when there are scandals in the teledata case, which the Minister himself has dealt with here recently and where there is a need for various journalists, citizens and others to dig into things. And then you say in relation to something that is quite crucial for a lot of parties at Christiansborg: we don't want to talk about that. Doesn't the Minister see that it's limping away that it's crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143904-2	No, in my opinion there is simply a misconception. There is good access to documents; there are plenty of cases which have been uncovered on the basis of access to documents. There are, moreover, a number of other circumstances which, in my view, must be the main drivers in ensuring that we avoid scandals, for example. how we organise our administration, e.g. how we organise internal audit and control, etc., which was, of course, some of the things that had gone wrong in the recent case of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143933	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114143937	Thank you. And thank you from here for a good debate. It is not a secret that we have not yet reached complete agreement, but it can be hoped that the debate here has helped us to reach each other at some point. I would at least welcome what the Minister has said, although it is not at this stage that we are being called into question. But at least that the Minister does not rule it out, I will acknowledge positively. And I just want the Minister to know that at any time radicals would like to appear if negotiations were to be convened to revise the Public Service Act. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that it would increase confidence in the political system if it were to change the public law in the light of the criticisms that have been made about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144025	So, it is a rhetorical trick to start by sucking it all into a little sweetness and then try to lure me into starting the negotiations that I have just said we are not so I think that what we need to comment on when we have this debate is the principle: this balance that I think should be there and which I also understand from the Radical Left representative in Parliament today must of course be there, so that there is a need to have a confidential space to ensure that we can make the best possible decisions that stand alongside the need for maximum transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144108	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144110	Of course it is a fundamental debate. That is probably why many people are interested in it, and it is glorious that there is. I do not quite think I was given an answer to what I asked about, which is indeed a question of principle, and when it is a fundamental debate, it must be relevant to ask a question of principle: does the Minister believe that it will increase confidence in the political level if the public law is amended by the criticism that has been raised?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144138	I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144150	The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144153	Thank you for the floor. Now that I am mentioned in the Minister's final remark, I have to say that when I say that it has been long and hard and that, therefore, you choose to park it here, it was not a call for that to be done, but just a recognition that it is the Minister's decision, which I have full respect for. On the other hand, as I said in my remark earlier, it must also be said that the situation is different today, at a time when we have more parties that are completely free, because we have a new government, we have a settlement that two parties that the Radical Left and the SF have resigned from, and we have a whole new party in the Folketing. I understand that they are saying: we are going to put this on the shelf until they breed and understand that we are serious. It is the kind of parenting thing you sometimes do when you have children, and perhaps it is a little the same that is reflected in the answer to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that you don't fall for flattery. Having said that, it is a settlement that has collapsed, and that is why you now have another option than you had when you were dependent on everyone to join us. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144308	I could not dream of seeing other parties in the Folketing in such a way that they should just behave, certainly not. I have great respect for the different positions that there are, and I can also understand the one who, with Mrs Lorentzen, pointed this out before the fact that it is, of course, a very small majority for the public law, as it is, there are still, and that there are many parties against, and so on. Yes, it is all very well, but the question is whether you can count to 90 or not. And the majority are there. That is why I raise the question: if you take the opposite position, the one expressed by the author or the one expressed by Mrs Karina Lorentzen, what are the decisions that you would like to see qualified majority behind, that is to say, where you can no longer take the decision by 90 seats? And is qualified majority voting, if that is what you want, particularly democratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144359	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144400	I do not think that the minority should be allowed to decide. I really don't think so. But what I am hearing today is that there is a large majority, including the government and including the Left, who say that there are some things here that they would have liked to change even in the previous negotiations. Then they broke down. It is in recognition of that that I say that we have a new situation with a settlement that has broken down and perhaps an opportunity to adapt the part of the legislation for which there was a majority before, but which could not be done because we were bound to have everyone agree. Is it not true that if we had not been bound to have everyone agree, then there would most probably have been a majority for the changes that were on the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144446	Thank you to the questioner. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144448	Well, that's how it's gonna be. Even if we start up new negotiations again, it will be the case that all the parties involved in the negotiations will have to agree. That's the way it is. This is true regardless of whether there is a settlement as there is or whether we are going to start new negotiations at the moment. It is clear that if you are a majority, you can make the solution that you want. We could sit down now with the Left, if that was the case, and review the rules. There is just no desire to do so, so I do not think that we are in a democratically difficult situation in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144518	Thank you, Minister. There is no need for any further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I assume that the rapporteur for the authors of the question, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party, preferably on the platform. That is correct, so welcome to Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114144538	Thank you. I think we have had an excellent debate and I have noticed that the four parties responsible for the question, i.e. the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, have put forward a proposal for adoption which I hear no one but the government and the Left will vote against when it comes to the vote on Thursday. I can tell you that, in addition to those who have taken part in the debate, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the four parties. This means, therefore, that a vote on Thursday can save the government from being a minority on this matter. We'll see about that. After all, there are some who change parties all the time, and suddenly it may be that the government is actually in the minority, and then I can at least say that we are probably some who will be quite quick to resume a question debate here in the Folketing, because then suddenly there may be a majority who can instruct the government to put this into effect when it does not want to. What can then be said seriously is that this should not actually be necessary. Both the Left and the Government say that there are actually some things here that we could look at. These could be the deadlines. It could be the rule of ministerial service that could be changed. It could be the rule of publicity, which should have been fantastic; it was an advertising number from the Public Service Commission and the Public Service Act, but it is not being used to any significant extent. Yes, when that is the case, all these things should mean that, with the work clothes on, you sat down and agreed that these rules should be so, and that it was done in a way that this, which I would like to compare with many other rules of the game we know in public life, was based on a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament. It should also be the case that the rules under which we work in the Parliamentary Chamber and in the parliamentary work were based on a very broad acceptance by the parties of the Folketing not by a single majority, but preferably with the support of two thirds or three quarters or perhaps from all parliamentary mandates. That is why it is particularly important for the government to really consider whether it should be the case that, in such a negative sense of the word, one is reluctant to listen to what a great many parties, including the support parties that are for the government, agree in the Folketing: make changes that mean more openness in the administration. Let me just repeat that we are in a situation where there are problems with confidence in public administration and political life at all, and that is why it is important to ensure that people are kept safe, that there are no limits, at least not unreasonable limits, which means that we cannot have a fair understanding of what is happening in the public and in the administration that must be of public funds. I can also say that, in his review, the Ombudsman said very clearly that the Public Service Act has caused some huge problems, and I quote from the Ombudsman's conclusions: in practice, the mini-service rule leads to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. The Ombudsman also says: "In ministerial service cases, the principle of public access often leads only to the provision of documents and information which is not likely to have a particular public interest. It is therefore quite contrary to what was done at the time as the big promotional number. I can also say that Danish media, which have a natural interest in being able to communicate the things that are obtained through public access and transparency in the administration, are clear in their criticism of some of the things we have talked about here today. The same is true of the Danish Journalist Federation, which also very clearly says that we actually have the toughest public law in the Nordic countries. In other countries, for example: Sweden, you can have access to public access on the day when we in Denmark are dragging the clock. There may be different reasons for this, but you drag and drag time and far beyond what the law actually tells you to. So, in every possible way, there are good arguments why we in the Danish Parliament maintain our interest in having a public law that will provide a more understandable law for the citizen, who will, after all, become a buck when everything is closed off.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145101	The President stands up because the President does not intend to delay any longer, but thanks the rapporteur for the questions from the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145126	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145152	Under the former Social Democratic Government, it was possible for the authorities to withdraw passports or refuse to issue passports in order to prevent foreign fighters from going out and participating in activities that could pose a threat to Denmark's security. The Act, which entered into force on 1 March 2015, expires on 1 March of this year. The draft law we are discussing today is therefore primarily intended to ensure that in future we also have the opportunity to prevent foreign fighters from going out and endangering the security of the state. We can see from the evaluation made by the Ministry of Justice of the law that a number of people have been successfully prevented from leaving Denmark where this could endanger the security of the state. In addition, the draft law extends the existing system whereby decisions on the withdrawal of passports may be extended by a maximum of one year to a period of three years in the future. Finally, the authorisation clause in the passport law is modernised, which allows the Minister to lay down rules on, for example, the obligation of hotels to register Danish nationals. The purpose is to provide for more up-to-date rules, including on electronic registration, in the passport notice. It is the position of the Social Democrats that we must do everything in our power to ensure the safety of the Danes. We believe that the bill here should be seen as a strengthening of efforts to combat recruitment to armed conflicts abroad and as a necessity to protect Denmark's security. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145342	Thank you. The legislative proposal that we have to deal with now is a transfer of the rules already in force, which means that a passport can be withdrawn, that you can also refuse to issue a passport and that you can issue a genuine exit ban to people who want to travel abroad to participate in armed wars abroad, for example. something that we are unfortunately seeing quite a lot of people doing in Syria these years. If we do not adopt anything else here in the Folketing, then these rules will end on 1 March 2020, because we adopted a so-called sunset clause when we adopted the provisions, and therefore it is important that we get this law in place. There is a real and also a concrete terrorist threat against Denmark, and it is our task to protect and secure the Danish people and society in the best way possible. That is our responsibility, and we must be very aware of that. We must therefore use all the tools, of course, within the principles of the rule of law, to prevent Danish citizens from going out and, for example, participating in the so-called holy war. Because this not only puts them at risk in the places they go, but when they come home, they are not only fanatical opponents of Danish society, but they have also been trained to use weapons. I recently had an interesting conversation with an officer from the Danish defence, who told us that some of the really difficult things in weapons training is to get people to shoot at other people, because that is something that is so much against us instinctively. So the fact that someone is coming home who is willing to commit terror and who has even been trained to shoot at others has tried it before, changing the magazine when changing the magazine, is therefore something that makes these people even extremely dangerous. The Ministry of Justice has made a report on the experience gained in the field of passport involvement, etc., and the law has proved to be effective. From 2015 to 2019 there have been 19 cases where a decision has been taken, 5 of which are about refusal to issue a passport, 14 of which are about the withdrawal of a passport, and 14 have been banned in another 14 cases. And that means, of course, that the ban has actually prevented people from going out to participate in holy war. The Act is linked to the entry and residence ban to enter territories abroad where terrorist organisations are part of an armed conflict, without prior authorisation, as introduced by the former government headed by the Left with effect from 1 June 2016. The Left is therefore ready to pursue the rules, because it is important that we guard ourselves. Part of these cases concerning the withdrawal of passports etc. At the same time, there has been an extension of a ban or refusal to issue passports, which is why the police need to be able to issue longer bans, and we would like to support the fact that the maximum limit for the issue of a ban may be three years from the previous date, when it was only one year. It provides a better opportunity for individual assessment and measurement of the actual ban. In the Left, we fully agree with the government that the interests of state security and public order are even very important. One might have wanted those rules to be in place even earlier, but they did not, but there is not much to do about that. However, we cannot imagine that the rules would have to stop now, that would be really questionable, and that is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145728	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur at this stage. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145738	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we support L 92. We think it is important that people can be prevented from participating in Islamist terrorist movements and wars in certain areas, so it is important that we continue with this excellent arrangement, which, in fact, has also been able to make a difference. This has been demonstrated by the evaluations that have been carried out. So, of course, this needs to be continued; it should not stop on 1 March 2020. We can also say yes to extending the three-year deadline so that the ban can apply for three years, and we can also say yes to the registration provisions that are included in the legislative proposal. We would like this bill to solve the whole problem of having people in Denmark who want to be jihadists. Unfortunately, it does not, so it is of course a proposal that cannot stand alone and it is necessary to use additional resources to prevent us from getting jihadists in Denmark. But this is at least one of the things that it has proved possible to do with reasonably reasonable results. So in the Danish People's Party we support L 92. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145911	Thank you to the Danish People's Party. There are no questions for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114145923	Thank you. Decisions to withdraw a passport already issued or to refuse to issue a passport under Danish nationality and to grant an exit ban constitute a significant interference with the freedom of movement of the person concerned. Radical Left sat in government when the law was implemented initially, and with this new bill it is proposed that the length of time for which a decision to withdraw passports or refuse to issue passports and a possible simultaneous decision and notification of exit bans can be notified may be extended from a maximum of 1 year, as it is today, to a maximum of 3 years. Because of the nature of the interventions, a specific argument must be put forward for such a change, and the argument for the amendment refers in particular to the evaluation of the passport law. I would like to start by saying that it is very positive that we should evaluate the legislation we have and, in particular, in the area of legal policy, the Radical Left would like to see it done even more with the things that have been. However, I find it difficult to see what it is that the evaluation points to advocating this extension to three years. The evaluation shows, for example, that the National Police have indicated that relatively few cases of application of the rules have been dealt with at this stage and that the National Police have pointed out that it may be difficult to provide sufficient information. In particular, it has proved difficult to obtain information on the territory to which there are grounds for believing that a person intends to leave. Then the National Police have also pointed out that there is a demand among the circles for greater clarity on the conditions for extending a decision on the withdrawal of passports or the refusal to issue passports, as well as an exit ban. It points out to me that the experience gained from the National Police is more concerned with a request for greater clarity on the conditions for extension and that there is no such direct indication that there should be a real need for a longer period once the decision in question has been reached. That is why the Radical Left cannot immediately support the bill. We will be tabling amendments to maintain it for a maximum of one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150149	Thank you to the radical rapporteur, who is not asking for short remarks: that is the next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150153	There is no doubt that the possibility of refusing to leave, issuing passports or withdrawing passports has been a tool that could be used to put a plug in the number of exits to Syria. What works is, of course, a little more unclear, but there is no doubt that when you lack valid travel documents, it becomes a barrier. And why is it so important to have such an opportunity? It is because we know that when you have been a warrior for a terrorist organisation, there is therefore a risk that you will be further radicalised and that you will at least gain experience that can be used to plan terrorist attacks. That is what our intelligence service says, and therefore it is part of preventing terrorist attacks on Danish soil also to prevent you from going out and joining terrorist organisations. When we passed the law, we knew that obstructing people's freedom of movement across borders was a strong intervention only because of less definable suspicions. Therefore, SF, together with a number of other parties, helped to propose a sunset clause, so that the law got an end, and it had to be discussed again whether it was needed. That is why we are having a debate today on whether it should continue, and the Minister for Justice has the innovation that instead of being prevented from travelling for one year at a time, we can have a three-year ban at once. I have read the evaluation report twice, in fact, and there are indeed a number that have been extended a few times, but there are virtually no cases on which it is being used right now. It is a little difficult for me, I think, to see the reason for extending to three years. In fact, I think it makes sense that once a year, when it is such a powerful intervention, we should decide whether this is still necessary. This means that it is being looked after, and there are, as you can see from the evaluation report, a number of times, in fact, when you abandon after one year and do not issue a new exit ban. However, what worries me most in the debate, and which the SF has also been concerned about, is that the legislation is going a little wrong. Almost half of those who have been banned from travelling are actually those who want to go down and fight I can see that we still need the legislation, but I wish we could make a more precise paragraph that did not hit those who helped us in the fight against the Islamic State. In fact, I have also been to the Minister with exactly that wish, but have been rejected. And I also recognise that it is difficult to do so, i.e. to make such an exception. To sum up, we think that this law is needed, but I would like to give you some warning that we will certainly be investigating how we ensure the Kurds in this and maybe we will also have a fair look at whether it should be 3 years or whether it should be 1 year. So we go to committee in a positive spirit and recognise that this proposal is actually needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150535	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150540	Thank you for the floor. I am a little surprised that the SF, with what I can understand from the rapporteur now, is in fact saying that it is okay to go out and arm yourself and not go to war, but war others without being sent out by the Danish state, as long as you are on the right side. Is that correct and is that what the rapporteur said?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150609	At any rate, I find it problematic that some of the people who are actually on our side in the fight against the Islamic State are also at risk of having problems on that backdrop. That's more what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150621	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150623	We agree that this is not about Danish soldiers sent out, but that it is about civilian people who, so to speak, take the law into their own hands and go out and say that they are on the right side and according to the SF, are on the right side. But does the rapporteur not see that there may be other conflicts? If, like the rapporteur, you say that it is a reasonable principle that you can go out into the world and fight other people, as long as you are in what the rapporteur thinks is the right thing, is it not a slippery move?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150657	Yes, but then I think it might have been more real that we had discussed whether we should just have a ban on going out at all. After all, this is a conflict zone to which we have agreed was problematic to leave to. I also recognise that the picture has been very fragmented in Syria, so it may have been difficult to get an overview of who is joining what is down there and for what purpose. But perhaps it would have been more real if we were to adopt a complete ban on going to a conflict zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114150737	Thank you. There is good reason to be afraid of the Islamic State, for IS, and I think we all know that in here. I also recognise that it is against this background that this bill is coming. There is no doubt that this is a frightening group of people who are spreading fear and horror, who are trying to commit ethnic cleansing, who are raping, who are killing children, and we need not belittle the seriousness of what is happening in Syria and Northern Iraq. I am also afraid, and I think my colleagues in the Enhedslisten are. We are afraid of whether they intend to commit terrorism in Denmark or in the rest of the world, and that is something we have discussed so much, I would say, in this Parliament hall over the last year ■ compare the debate on citizenship. But I also think we need to talk about what it is that is not a problem. Nobody really talks about it, although there have been several cases lately, but I think we should agree that this is not a problem. It may be stupid, but I do not think it is worthy of punishment to go to these areas to help Denmark's allies in the fight against the Islamic State, the Kurds. Unfortunately, we have seen that this passport law has meant that people who have gone to the affected areas to do emergency work have had their passports removed. I think that is a little absurd. I really believe that we could all understand that there are people going to war zones to protect their family and their friends or to help humanitarian aid. One really doesn't have to imagine that we would do the same ourselves if we were sitting in Italy while such a scary thing happened in Denmark, because then we would all go on a trip to Denmark to help our friends and our family. That is actually what has happened, namely that some have done so after this amendment of the law came into force in 2015 • the law that is now to be extended. There are, among other things: talk about a young woman who was deprived of her passport because she traveled to Rojava to plant trees together with the solidarity organization 'Make Rojava Green Again'. She was deprived of her passport, and that is a little absurd, and I think it exhibits the problem of this law, namely that it is very unclear what the scope is and that it is proposed that it is the courts that should make the estimate, and not the Folketing. I think that is too broad an estimate, it is too unclear, in other words what we are giving to the courts by adopting this bill. In addition, I would also add that it is a very big interference in a person's life to deprive the passport of extreme intervention, which is why I do not see the intention of it being for 3 years instead of 1 year. So I do not support the purpose of the law because the scope is so unclear and I do not support the extension of the inclusion of the passport from one to three years. The Enhedslisten also voted against when the first law was passed, precisely because we were afraid that this would affect those people who are actually making an effort in the fight against the Islamic State. I think it is extremely absurd that these people are now being punished. That's what we've seen in several trials, but especially in this case with the young woman who got her passport taken away. I think this should be taken seriously and it is not taken seriously in this draft law, so you will actually hit those who are trying to fight Islamic State • those who are trying to create democracy in Syria and Northern Iraq. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151154	Thank you. If you want to war with the Islamic State, you can turn to the defense. If you want to provide emergency aid, there are emergency agencies under which this sort of thing is organized. This is an excellent example of Enhedslisten doing once again, just as they do in all these kinds of cases. I recognise that there is nothing entirely black-and-white or one-sidedly leaning on one side or the other. There is always a reverse of the medal, but it's just extreme how Enhedslisten always lays down on one side. In this case, it is the consideration for a relief worker who is going to plant trees that are more important than the consideration for some of the potential victims who may be in Syria as a result of Danish citizens taking down and engaging in the Islamic State's jihadist behaviour, and also the victims who might be at home when you get these people back again. Then the Enhedslisten cannot say whether there are ever cases where the Enhedslisten stands on the side that is about restricting terror, restricting crime, in other words where it is not planters that are shown consideration?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151307	Thank you to the questioner. Now it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151311	Well, I can reassure Mrs Pernille Vermund that we are always on the side that wants to fight crime and fight terrorism. So I am well aware that Mrs Pernille Vermund and I do not disagree slightly, but rather disagree very much on how to do it. So I would just like to make it clear that the woman who has been deprived of her passport had just left with a relief organization, since she had just left to help rebuild the democracy that the Kurds have built and which the Islamic State has helped to destroy. And if anyone has been the victims of the Islamic State, then it is the people who have tried to build democracy in the Middle East. So I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund is going a little past the objective of her question here. It's just a crime to leave with a relief organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151359	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151401	If Enhedslisten is always on the side that is about combating terrorism, I would really like to hear: what proposals has Enhedslisten voted for or himself put forward to put an end to this evil?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151418	Something like that we, among other things. We have tabled ourselves, and as we have supported, some of the things that have been in different wage-pooling agreements have been about preventive work in relation to the Aarhus model, which prevents extremism. We ourselves have put forward proposals that it should fill much more in the Danish education system, both democracy and equality; I think that is something that can help prevent extremism and terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151445	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151455	The bill is about maintaining the Passport Act of 1 March 2015. It is a very important and relevant law, which came into being after several, who were born and raised in Denmark, went down to fight on the side of the Islamic State against among others. Danish forces and Western forces. The 2015 law amendment gave the police the power to refuse to issue passports, withdraw an already issued passport and issue an exit ban to Danish nationals. In addition, this will have consequences for the right of residents to reside in Denmark. All these things we've seen implemented. After the Islamic State got beat up and was on its way back, those who participated in the Islamic State wanted to return to the West, and there we have been able to use the law very effectively. So I think it is an important law, a relevant law that we believe should be maintained, especially because we have not finished the fight against Islamic State and other jihadist groups. They still exist in Iraq and Syria, they are spreading to Africa, so we can also run the risk of young people moving that way in the future. And that's why it's a relevant law, we think, that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151636	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. There is no wish for a brief comment. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151651	Thank you. We are here today because the original law of 2015 expires in March. The government would like to maintain the police's right to withhold and revoke Danish citizens' passports without trial. As early as 2015, in the consultations, it was stated that the purpose was precisely to avoid the claims for evidence normally made in criminal proceedings. And in every way it seemed unclear what criteria the police should apply in their decisions. In this regard, both the Institute for Human Rights and the Association for Legal Affairs stated, inter alia, that the scope of the then draft law was not given with the necessary clarity and that this, in particular in comparison with the draft law's suspicions, was a matter of legal certainty. The Ministry believes that the practice of recent years has shown that the law has worked as it should, in other words, that those whom we want to prevent from participating in terrorist activities and joining armed conflicts around the world have actually been stopped. And that's a good thing. However, this does not alter the basic fact that the police can deny a person the right to move freely solely because they consider that the person may be a threat to the security of the state. The decision may be brought before a judge, but if the evidence exists, a person's freedom should be limited only after a judge has delivered a judgment. It is therefore on an entirely fundamental basis that we are voting against the proposal today. Because when an authority does something as intrusive in a person's life as it is to withdraw the passport and then even for up to 3 years, then the prosecution must present the evidence and let a judge take a stand. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151836	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur in the series is therefore from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114151849	Thank you for the floor. We have to deal with this bill because the provisions are now coming to an end, and also because there is a change of law in relation to how long you can refuse to leave or withhold passports from Danish citizens, whom you expect to go out and commit what some call holy war and which others call jihadism or terror. As a starting point one may want to say: for God's sake let them go out and do what they want, and let us take the passport away from them as soon as they have left the Danish border, and never let them come back again. When we do not do so, that is, when we do not just say it, it is because there are other considerations to be taken into account. One is that when we have a suspected suspicion that people are going out to engage in armed conflicts or terrorism, there are victims out there who will suffer, among other things. Danish forces. There is also the consideration that there is a very large majority in the Folketing who refuse to take citizenship from IS-jihadists, and that is why we know that these people, once they have left and have been even more radicalised if possible, are allowed to come back again. Many of them come back on public support. Are there any demands made on those who have received public support while they have been away that they have to pay it back? What happens when they may have served a sentence if they are even convicted? Yeah, then they come out, and then they live among the rest of us, and we get to fund terrorists. That is why this bill is, of course, a step in the right direction. It is a step towards ensuring that fewer people go out and become more radicalised and that fewer people go out and commit the atrocities that we have seen committed by the Islamic state. However, as the rapporteur from DF said earlier, this is far from enough. I wish there were a large majority in the Folketing who said: When you have decided to leave, when you have slipped through the needle's eye and gone to Syria or elsewhere and have engaged in the construction of a foreign state, when you have made the decision and fought against Danish values and possibly also Danish troops, then you have made a decision; and you must stand by that decision, and that means that you must not be able to return, that you must have withdrawn your citizenship. Unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of this. When we had it voted on recently, only DF and New Citizens voted to take the citizenship of all the IS-jihadists, and that is why, unfortunately, until there is a new majority, we must live with the fact that these violent people who have committed atrocities in the world are allowed to return and are still recognised as Danes. So in that light, we support the bill, knowing that it is far from solving the problems, but that it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152228	Thank you. It is just because I was surprised that the rapporteur used as an argument that it was about fighting jihadists and people who go to foreign countries to engage in armed struggle and all that sort of thing, because then it cannot be the same bill we are talking about. So why not propose a law or some amendments to ensure it? I think the Enhedslisten would actually vote in favour of it, so we would be very excited about it. But that is not the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152257	The bill here is a continuation of the amendments to the passport law which allow one to either withdraw a passport, refuse to leave, or refrain from issuing a passport to Danish citizens who are expected to travel and engage in Islamic State or other. I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard has come too far on the agenda or has an advertisement in another context, but I am aware of the proposal we are dealing with now, and that is also what is on the screen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152324	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152326	Well, I know it's been sold that way, that is to say, it's about preventing jihadists and people who support Islamic State, etc. But it's not just them, it hits a lot of others too. So why not say what it is, instead of holding such a fine rapporteur's speech as we can all agree with, namely that we must fight Islamic State? Well, that's one of the weird things about this proposal, that's that people sell it under a fake sales name. Well, that's why Mr. Naser Khader had to say to Politiken: The idea was not to hit anyone who had real intentions. When the law was made, it was to hit those who went down to be part of jihadist groups. ▪ Yes, we would like to share in such a law. But then make such a law. But that is not the law before us today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152412	I will always feel this way in a context such as this one, that, although there is, and there is enough in every piece of legislation... we are not case officers, we are legislators... what to say, inappropriate, even if there is a reverse of the medal, then consideration for the safety and freedom of the Danes in this context will be much higher than the consideration, which has also been raised in the debate earlier today, for example. This woman who travels to plant trees in Syria. So, frankly, what is most important: that a single person takes out and plants trees in northern Syria, or that we as a society are protected from jihadists going out and then coming back, and that those out there are protected from Danish citizens going out and engaging in conflicts where you decapitate, murder and rape?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152512	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a second brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152519	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is revisiting a debate we have had in the past on the withdrawal of citizenship, in which the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, made it possible to take citizenship from people of dual nationality, and thus we solve a large part of the problem that is at stake here. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur because here too the rapporteur was very critical of the government and the broad majority of the Parliamentary Assembly if the rapporteur does not recognise that it is a problematic world that we will have created if we gradually make all Islamists and people who have sympathy for the Islamic State stateless. Well, then we have stateless people running around millions all over the world. How are we going to deal with them if all countries almost start making people stateless? And that would be the consequence if a country like Denmark were to start making people stateless. How does the rapporteur intend to deal with all this statelessness?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152614	First of all, it is not true that the removal of citizenship from those who have dual citizenship solves most of the problem. The rapporteur knows just as well as I do, and we know this because the rapporteur's own Minister from the Social Democratic Party has stated here that it is a minority of those who have left and have Danish citizenship, who also have a different citizenship. And that means that these people are now returning or having the opportunity to return to Denmark. So it does not solve the problem of doing it solely to those who have dual citizenship; it should also be done to those who only have Danish citizenship. The next question is what we do when they're stateless. I don't really care. For me, it's about who has citizenship in Denmark and who doesn't. And do you have the right to have and maintain your citizenship in Denmark and be part of the Danish community when you have actively turned your back on Denmark when you have fought other people to create a state of your own? If these people had succeeded in their mission, then they would have had a small country that they could call theirs.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152722	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Stoklund for a second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152726	Yes, but there is no one who can disagree that we were all free from these people who have turned their backs on us and have turned their backs on the free world at all. However, I do not think that the rapporteur is entirely concerned about how we should deal with a world with an extreme degree of statelessness if all countries started to do what the rapporteur thinks we should do in Denmark. We can, of course, make it even more concrete: there are a lot of people that we are today, for example. can reject as asylum seekers and actually get many of them repatriated. How will the rapporteur deal with this if the countries from which those people come begin to make stateless asylum seekers who are rejected in Denmark? Where are we gonna send them?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152810	Well, it is not the case that there will be an extreme degree of statelessness because we say to the people who have gone out to fight for the Islamic State that they have no right to be in Denmark. On the other hand, it will pose an extreme danger to Danish society that they come back here. There are already people living without citizenship in the world. I think that in our part of the world we think that having citizenship is something very special and something very sacred, and so is, but it is not the case that our citizenship, because it is so glorious and so sacred, must be patched out on all kinds of people, and certainly not on people who have committed themselves to the Islamic State and have turned their backs on us. They should live with the consequences of their decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152856	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114152906	In the Liberal Alliance, we want to help prevent Danish citizens from going to Syria, for example, to fight for the Islamic State, and that is why we need to use relatively tough means. And it is a violent intervention to have to include a citizen's passport and refuse to leave, but it has proved necessary in this situation, and it is an effective and good tool that we have given to the Danish authorities. It would be a shame if we allowed that scheme to run into the sand. So that part of the bill supports the Liberal Alliance and we also support modernising the rules and requirements for hotels to register their guests and provide information to the police and authorities. So, overall, we can back the bill in its entirety. If you have to find hair in the soup, and it would suit our people's government that the opposition to the government was not only red parties, but also some blue parties, you would like this bill to have an expiry clause, as it had in the past. And one can also question the need to extend the period of inclusion of the passport from one to three years. But it is only small hairs in the soup; we drink, as it were, from the soup anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153034	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. It has thus become the Minister for Justice's turn to explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153045	Thank you for the debate and thank you for the most positive speeches. For me as Minister of Justice and for the government as a whole, security is one of the most central objectives, and according to PET's latest assessment of the terrorist threat against Denmark, foreign fighters may well pose a threat to security in Denmark, just as it is the assessment and it seems to have been mentioned by others up here today that people who have been in a conflict zone, for example. in militant Islamist groups such as the Islamic State, can be radicalised, brutalised and violently prepared. Even a few foreign fighters who have left Denmark and had to return to Denmark may pose a threat. That is why we must do what we can to prevent people leaving for conflict zones in the first place. As has also been mentioned, the purpose of the bill is firstly to maintain the existing rules on the withdrawal of passports or refusal of the issue of passports and the granting of exit bans to persons suspected of participating abroad in activities which may entail or increase the risk of State security, security of other States or public order. Those rules had been adopted with an expiry clause which lapses here on 1 March of this year, unless we decide to maintain the rules, and that is what this is all about. An evaluation has then been carried out, which has also been referred to by a few of the speakers up here today, and the National Police and PET consider that in a number of specific cases the rules have prevented Danish citizens from travelling to conflict areas. The evaluation also points out that a number of examples have been mentioned: 1 year is often not enough to change a person's desire or willingness to leave a conflict area. That is why it has been necessary to extend the decisions several times. Sometimes the decisions are extended in exactly the same context as the first decision was also based on. Secondly, the government is therefore proposing to extend the length of time allowed for decisions from one year to three years, and it is not as it has been suggested that a decision should be taken in three years' time. This is the maximum time that the decision may have, and this in fact allows the seriousness of the specific circumstances to be reflected in the time period. This does not solve the problems alone, but it is an important instrument in ensuring that we take care of Denmark and that a potential terrorist threat to Denmark is not redeemed. Then a question has been raised which I think is interesting and important, and this has been raised in particular by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but also by the SF rapporteur, namely whether it is not wrong for this to happen to people who have left to fight, if I may say so, on our side, in other words, to those who are on our side. I do not think so, and I do not think so in principle, because for me, for the government, for the Social Democratic Party is absolutely essential, the monopoly of violence is in the hands of the state. Those who can legitimately commit violence are the police and the defense. It should not be the case that, if you engage in violence, you may be allowed to go to conflict zones and commit acts for which you would immediately be punished if they had been committed here. It is incredibly important for the formation of a state to start by saying that those who can exercise violence are police and defence, otherwise you leave it to the individual to choose when to kill other people, and so it is not a decision that has to be put in the hands of the individual. It is a decision that we have to take in here, which conflicts we want to engage with our defences in the world, and not each one, which we now want to swing with the six-runner out there. Thank you for your broad support. I am sure that this proposal, as it will be implemented, will contribute to the possibilities of combating terrorism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153525	There are questions from Mr. Søren Søndergaard to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153534	In other words, the ambiguities that existed could be excused when it was adopted at the time, although Mrs Pernille Skipper warned against the ambiguity and they were denied from the parliamentary platform, but they could be apologized at the time, because then there was no experience. Now you have the experience, but the minister doesn't talk about it because the minister is talking about violence. Okay, we're not talking Israel, and we're not talking the foreign legion where Danish citizens can sign up, but we're talking, for example. The Kurdish self-defense forces must not join them. But it is not just those who have been accused. People have been accused of planting trees for doing relief work. The reason on the part of the police was that they had a flag against the Islamic State on their wall, and the reason from the prosecution was that one could imagine that it was going well in Rojava, by planting some trees, perhaps somehow strengthening the Kurdish self-defence forces, whatever the problem might be. And the problem is also, sir. Minister, that the charge in itself involves the punishment, because when one is prevented from leaving on a specific day, it is fine that the court over six months later finds that it was completely groundless • that one was deprived of one's passport, that it was absurd that one was deprived of one's passport, but when it happens six months later it may well be, but then it is not really possible any longer to travel for the original purpose. All these things are not the Minister's concern, and I would just like to urge the Minister to do so now in his reply to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153720	One might get the impression that the questioner has not read the evaluation when the questioner says what the questioner is doing. Or at least it has been read incredibly selective. I believe that this is what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur called a hair in the soup, because if the rapporteur had read the report, the rapporteur, as I have done, would also have read through every single example of who has been denied leave, how many times has been extended and so on. And it is quite true that there is a case, case 16, which is an example of the Frederiksberg Court changing the decision that has been taken so that they will have the right to leave. But that's the exception. The vast majority of the examples in the evaluation are examples of people whom we have prevented from travelling and potentially becoming a terrorist threat or a threat to the security of the Danish state or other states, as is required by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153823	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153825	So, I am not going to accuse the Minister of not having taken part in the proposal we have put forward here, but I can see that there is an agreement between the Minister and Mrs Pernille Vermund that where action is being taken is being wasted. After all, we have never opposed the law as a principle. We have opposed the vagueness of the law, which allowed it to be used incorrectly, and it has been used in the documentation right in front of the minister. It has been incorrectly used, which is why we think it was reasonable to improve the law ^ to change the law in such a way that it could not be abused and so that it did not have an unintended effect. Because I assume that the Minister fully agrees that what happened in this particular case is an entirely unintended effect. And why not change the law so that such unintended effects cannot take place in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153916	What is the problem with what the questioner calls an improvement is that the questioner will put an end to the monopoly of violence. And I know that there may have been even parties in Denmark who are on the verge of thinking that violence is something you can resort to if it is in a person's own perception of good cause. I just think it is incredibly important that we ensure that the monopoly of violence is in our hands, that of the community, and that it is not passed on to the individual to commit violence because one thinks that one is right in one's case.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114153949	For the record, I am not aware that there are parties in the Folketing who pay tribute to the fact that violence can be resorted to. It's just, so it's emphasised. I call Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154009	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for mentioning it after all. Despite the fact that there may not be parties in the Folketing calling for violence, there are parties, including the Enhedslisten, who have been on the radio talking about the fact that, if you could avoid racism, it was okay to throw a stone through a shop window. So far away from the dial, the minister is not in this respect. Having said that, I would like to follow on from Mr Beazley's report. Søren Søndergaard's comment on the Minister asks whether the Minister can explain whether there is any legislation at all that has no unintended effect. Well, sir. Søren Søndergaard asks a question following on from my rapporteur's speech and then says that the Minister agrees with New Citizens that with that legislation some may be affected, which was not meant to be affected, but unfortunately that is the price of making legislation in such a vital area. Can the Minister mention one area where the law does not affect anyone who should not have been affected at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154118	I am trying to run through all sorts of different areas of legislation and think: is there somewhere where it sits right in the closet and where nothing needs to be changed? What is really interesting here is whether we achieve the objective that we want to achieve with the law. What we want with the law is to ensure that people do not go abroad and take part in activities where it may be a danger to Denmark or to other states or a threat to public order, and I think that with the evaluation there is a solid basis for saying that there is. It is true, as has been said, that there is an example of a situation in which the decision taken was reversed by the court, and it is good that we live in a state governed by the rule of law, so it is also possible for those who feel that their rights are being trampled underfoot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154214	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154220	I just got a little curious about what the minister said, that the monopoly of violence belongs to the police and the military. I agree with that in principle, but I just got a little curious about where the limits go for what to participate in. Does the Minister really think that it would be wrong if we wanted to go to Hong Kong and take part in major demonstrations there, which were also at risk of developing violently? Or what about Chile, where there has been a state of emergency in the country? Should it then also be forbidden to go to a place, even if it may be the fight for a new form of government or something quite different, for example. the Arab Spring? I just got a little curious about where the minister actually thinks the border is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154309	The wording of the law is that where a person may refuse to issue a passport, there is reason to believe that he or she intends to take part in activities abroad which may present or increase a threat to the security of the State or to the security of other States or pose a significant threat to public order. It's the frame that's put down over it. But I really think that this is an interesting fundamental discussion, and I think there is reason to insist that it is therefore important that the monopoly of violence as the extremely powerful tool it is, be held in state hands and not privatised, even if you wish to commit violence in what you see as a good cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154359	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154402	I am also not in favour of violence as such, but sometimes it is just the case that if you want to get rid of a totalitarian regime, it is perhaps the only means you have to get something through. But it is interesting that the Minister says that the other cases I mentioned are not covered. So I would like to ask the Minister: would it not be more real if we were to adopt a definite ban on going out rather than making a bill with all these hooks, if that is what is really the Minister's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154440	No, I can see that would limit some people's desire to travel further, but I do not see that it would necessarily serve the purpose that we would like it to do here. I think it makes sense to say that it is when someone intends to do these various activities abroad that this kind of ban is issued or the passport withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154504	No one else has signed up to brief remarks to the Minister, but a second round of the Enhedslisten has been requested, and I should therefore like to ask whether there are others who wish to join a second round of rapporteurial speeches. If not, I give the floor to Mr McMillan-Scott. Søren Søndergaard, who has the floor for 3 minutes here in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154526	The reason why I am doing this somewhat unconventionally is that I simply do not understand why we should be debating this way, when the Minister knows very well that we are talking about a matter in which there has been no talk whatsoever of taking part in armed struggle, where there has been no talk whatsoever of anyone having dreamed of taking part in any armed struggle, but where there has been talk of totally peaceful solidarity work. And it is therefore included in the examples mentioned here, perhaps following on from the excellent question put by the SF rapporteur, that the wording of the law is so unclear that it can be used for anything, namely, as the Minister also read out, that one takes part in activities where it may pose or increase a threat to the security of the state, the security of other States or a significant threat to public order in Denmark or abroad. So all the examples mentioned by the SF rapporteur can come under this. Every single one of them can get under this. It depends solely on the prosecution. Yes, there are unintended effects of any legislation, but when we dealt with this for the first time and ever since, it has never been argued in the arguments that peaceful solidarity work was covered by this law. It has just been said, as the Minister also does here, that it is a matter of preserving the Danish state's monopoly of violence, okay, we can discuss that and, of course, it applies to both those who support the Islamic State and those who go down to fight against the Islamic State. Perhaps that should also apply to those who join the Foreign Legion and those who join the Israeli army, but leave it at that. But they're covered. Peaceful work of solidarity should not be included, but it provides the legal basis for this in its wording, and that is why I appealed to the Minister: let us, however, find some wordings about what is going on with armed struggle, if that is the purpose of the law, rather than making a law that is obviously so unclear that the prosecution can be led to demand that passports be taken away and that the passport can be taken into account administratively, because there are posters hanging on the wall, suggesting that you support the fight against the Islamic State, and because you want to go down and plant trees in Rojava. So, yes, we can have a non-discussion, but I think that's boring. I think we should have a real discussion, and there are at least two starting points on the part of the Enhedslisten when we talk about this: one is the fight against the Islamic State and the other is the creation of legislation that is as good as possible and avoids its being abused or misinterpreted. That should be a purpose for which everyone agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154832	Would the Minister like to speak? Yeah. The minister has 10 minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114154851	That's good. This is going to be a rather furious debate, because of course the aim is not to prevent peaceful solidarity work; it is not covered by the law at all. In other words, what is delikable; what must have been done; what must have happened in order to withdraw your passport or to be refused a passport, is that there is reason to assume that the person concerned intends to take part abroad in activities where this may involve or increase a threat to the security of the State, to the security of other States or to a significant threat to public order. In this particular case, it is established that this is not the case, and that is why he must go. In the other examples we have, I think that, when you read them through, you are left with the impression that this is relevant to the decisions that are being taken. I do not remember whether there is another case where the exit will also be reversed. But in any case it is in the vast majority of cases over 90%.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155020	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155023	I mean, there's still nothing missing in the purpose of violence. In other words, as far as the security of other states is concerned, I am sure that, for example, Turkey sees the construction of an independent Kurdish state as a threat to their security; they have made this very clear. So there's nothing happening here that indicates that it's specifically violence. So I would say to the Minister: okay, we are saying that it is as it is, but will the Minister help to find a solution that means that the accusation does not involve the punishment? The person concerned should have left early January, but had his passport removed and was then purely acquitted in June. It had been 1⁄2 years. So, half of the punishment that could be given, which was given administratively by the inclusion of the passport, was endured when the passport came back and the moment was lost in relation to going. Will the Minister look at how we can then make some kind of urgent procedure that means that people are not actually convicted just by being accused?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155132	No, I don't want to, and that's where you have to look at the risk of saying: we want to raise a case that we want to take away your passport. Once you have been through that process, there will probably be a certain risk that some of those who were told that would have rushed to leave. That is why they say: let us take the passport and then take the judicial review afterwards. Otherwise, the purpose would, as it were, be researched or at least risk to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155204	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. And if no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155315	The debate is open. I shall give the floor to the Minister for the Environment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155321	Thank you. And let me just start by saying that it is positive that so many Danes take the green agenda seriously. This sends out a clear signal that there is support among the Danes for the green transition that the government is also working for. And we share the ambition of banning the use of pesticides in public and private areas. Before the elections, the Social Democratic Party promised a ban on spraying on public land. In my view, we should not use pesticides where that is not necessary, and the public should take the lead. We must take co-responsibility and we must show that consumption can be reduced. The latest figures for the sale of pesticides to private individuals unfortunately show that sales of glyfosate are increasing. It is therefore not enough just to look at the use of pesticides on public areas. We also need to look at private use. However, it is also clear that we must respect our obligations in relation to EU rules in this area. It is the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and Food that a ban on the use of pesticides on specific areas will have to be justified professionally and legally in relation to the possibilities arising from EU regulation in this area, for example. the impact on groundwater and surface water. At the same time, it is the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and Food that it will not be possible to impose a ban on the use of pesticides on all surfaces in public and private areas within the EU rules. That is why I am looking into ways of banning the general use of pesticides in certain public and private areas within the framework of EU rules in order to reduce the overall burden on our environment by means of pesticides. In this context, I am examining, among other things, what has been done in other EU countries, for example Germany and the Netherlands. A similar ban on spraying on certain public and private areas has already been imposed today, and I am also examining, among other things. the need for exceptions by means of a ban, for example. specific safety concerns. There are also EU rules, for example. the phasing-out periods for authorised pesticides, which means that a ban cannot be imposed immediately, as proposed in the proposal, unless, for example, a serious health risk has been documented. The government cannot therefore support the proposal, but I would like to reiterate that we share the ambition of banning pesticides in public and private areas and that I am therefore examining what is possible within the framework of EU rules. I look forward to the further examination of the motion for a resolution and will return to the Folketing when there is news of the studies being carried out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155600	Mrs Mette Abildgaard of the Conservative People's Party has asked for a reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155604	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. But I have to admit that I think it's quite insane that you don't relate to the recommendation and advice you get from the Ministry's own people in the form of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency on this very question. I think it is quite untimely not to mention it at all. You just skate over it and say that you are open and that you want to ban, but you do not mention that the people you have hired to advise on this on a board say very, very clearly that there are no health or natural risks associated with the use of glyphosate, which is certainly part of this citizens' proposal. So I just want to hear the minister, why don't you fire the whole lot? After all, there is no need to have environmental management if you are completely indifferent to them and do not listen to their professional advice. Why don't you fire the whole bunch and spend the money buying up some land we can make some wilder nature on? Surely that would be beneficial to nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155654	But before you go as far as I can hear the rapporteur doing, I think it will also suit the rapporteur just to listen to what I have just said. Because I think it's a little too bad that you push the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in front of you instead of taking a position on the citizen's proposal. For it is clear that of course I am listening to the professional advice I receive. However, what the Danish Environmental Protection Agency says is not that there can be no professional evidence that it is precisely on certain applications in relation to the risk of our groundwater or surface water that limitations cannot be made. So before taking that view, I think I would just warn against it, because it is not really the professional advice that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155733	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155738	Now I have seen that, for example, the Detector, who has covered this subject very carefully, has also asked for a comment from the Minister, because the Minister is out talking about this great concern that glyphosat raises. "Detector· has not succeeded in getting a comment from the Minister on the statements she has made, so perhaps the Minister will explain here what is meant by being very concerned, since, for example, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency says very clearly: there is no need to worry?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155801	I would very much like to state the reasons for this. But I think it is very important to keep some things separate, because the rapporteur sort of confuses everything here. What we are talking about today is a citizens' proposal in which there is a desire for us to impose a general ban on pesticides in public and private areas. And I fully share that ambition because we need to take good care of our groundwater and surface water and because we need to take good care of our nature at all. Then there is a question specifically about glyphosat, and it would also be contrary to EU rules if we banned glyphosat in Denmark. We will have an opportunity to discuss this here in a moment. However, one can easily be concerned about the use of pesticides and have a general desire for it to be reduced, even if one listens to professional advice too.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155845	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155852	Thank you and thank the Minister for taking the citizens' proposal seriously and entering into the debate on it. It is not long ago that we had the discussion last, and we have also discussed it here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I would really like to know if the Minister could tell everyone how long the EU approval applies to this, because it was not long ago that it was discussed, and Denmark was one of the countries that did not want to be involved in a ban on it and actually extended the approval for these five years. So how long is the approval at the moment? in the EU system to be able to use, for example, Roundup?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114155926	After all, the citizens' proposal goes on pesticides broadly, so that means that it can have all sorts of different periods of approval, and it will then be pesticides that have been approved in the European Union. However, we can easily go to it with a wish that we, as a public authority, should take the lead, that the private sector should be involved, because there may be a concern that we are actually spending more. However, what the rapporteur is asking is the question of glyphosate and the approval process that has been there, I think, and it has been approved in the European Union up to 2022. In other words, there will be a renewed EU process in this regard. In the context of the concern of the Social Democratic Party, we pressed under the previous government to shorten the period of approval so that we can respond precisely if new knowledge becomes available in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160012	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160014	This means that we will very soon be discussing it again, as the approval only runs until 2022. I would like to know whether the government is now going to put on the team of EU countries that are fighting against a renewed authorisation, for example for the use of glyphosate, or whether you want to stand like previous governments and fight to maintain a permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160038	I believe that we need to take it in the right order, because rather than a process of approval or an extension of an authorisation in the European Union, there is a technical, scientific work that goes in and looks at the substances that need to be approved, and thus all the latest available knowledge, and Denmark must press for the best possible knowledge. It is clear, then, that there is a discussion, and that is one of the things I have followed in relation to some of the EU countries that have reported some things, but there is no ban anywhere in the EU today in relation to glyphobes, because that is not possible within the EU rules; but we have asked some of the countries that have reported whether they have a new scientific knowledge, because then, of course, it has to enter into that process. And when we have that knowledge base, we have to make a political decision on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160118	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160120	I feel like Mrs. Mette Abildgaard. Of course, I also wonder about the way in which the government positions itself here, in relation to the experts who speak in this area, and in relation to the opinions that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has made. But whatever professional knowledge may say, if you have an ambition, if you do not want to use pesticides on public areas, then you can actually take the lead. We do not have to ban it; we can just say that we do not use them. One of the places where you use the most of this in this case Roundup is on Banedanmark's lands. Will the government then go in tomorrow and say to Banedanmark: it is now the end of using this; it is certainly not forbidden, but we do not think we should use it, so this is now a decision by the government on behalf of Banedanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160208	It is a little remarkable to refer to opinions from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency when there is a professional and factual concern in relation to the overall burden on our groundwater and surface water. That's exactly the concern that we're also going to have to deal with. So I wonder what kind of statements the Left is referring to when this is the citizens' proposal we are talking about. As I know, this is not the advice I am given, and that is why I think it is a little bit to derail the debate that we have today. When it comes to the question of whether the public can take the lead, the answer is: yes, that is what we must do. There are, in fact, also some very good stories to tell, because we have managed to significantly reduce public spending by means of voluntary agreements. We just haven't come all the way. There we say as a government and there we may just disagree that we think that use should be banned on public land. Does that mean, as the rapporteur of the Left asks, that it will be banned everywhere? No, it does not, and that is why we need to examine precisely what uses and on what areas can be banned and what EU rules say about it, and whether there should be some exceptions for safety or other reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160315	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160316	I simply do not understand that answer. Excuse me, Minister for the Environment, but if the Minister is ambitious that one does not want to use a particular spray or poison at all on public areas such as Banedanmark's land, then it is not a question of whether to ban it. You don't have to do that. You can just say to your own institution: we no longer want you to use this in your daily operation of your land. So if you have that ambition, why is it that the government does not go in yesterday or from tomorrow and say: stop using this? It is not forbidden, but as owners of Banedanmark we say to you: don't use it. Why doesn't the government do that if you have that ambition? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160353	There are two reasons for this. Firstly, public land is not just the State's own land. It is also the municipal areas. This means that the municipalities must also be involved in this. It may well be that Jacob Jensen has a different view of it, but it is now the case that we cannot forbid the municipalities to do so unless we adopt a law. That's one reason. The second specific reason is in the issue of Banedanmark, where I say that we have to do this work thoroughly. We need to have a thorough examination of what other EU countries have done and how we can make a Danish ban that remains within the rules and what exceptions are needed. Banedanmark will include: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the areas where there can also be safety concerns that we need to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160434	Sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160437	Thank you. First of all, I would like to commend the Minister for the approach taken by the government to the legislative proposal we are discussing here and also to the two previous speakers from the Left and Conservatives. In fact, I very much agree with the Minister that there are approvals on glyphosat. It is a product that has been approved for over 40 years, but that is what one should remember to look at, and that is why I think the Minister is absolutely right to look at the 1990s and up to now, just over 14,000 analyses have actually been carried out in connection with groundwater monitoring, and almost 12,000 analyses have been carried out in waterworks drilling, and nothing has been found, but we in the Danish People's Party have therefore fully agreed with the government that we should look ahead, probably not against a ban, but we should at least look at how we can limit the use of glyphosat in the future. Because it is true that it hardly ever exists in groundwater, but once it has been found, we in the Danish People's Party also believe that we should look forward and look at how we can then solve the challenge and also look at the opportunities that we have, of course, also. Then praise the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160548	Thank you. I'd like to sign for that. I also think that there is reason to praise all those citizens who are actively involved in political work and who have a view that Denmark should be a green leading country and among other things. In this area too, action must be taken. That is why I am glad that I can say today that we support the ambition of this proposal. That is why I would just like to follow up on the Danish People's Party's approach on how to do something to limit use. I hear the rapporteur say that what is forbidden is not necessarily where you land, but I would certainly like to invite that when we have identified exactly what such a Danish ban might look like, then the parties of the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, are very welcome to be part of it and to back it if you can see yourself in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160634	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160636	Thanks for that. I'd like to sign for that. But just to follow up again in relation to the figures that I have, it is the case that, out of the barely 25,000 measurements made in connection with groundwater monitoring over a long period of time, very small deposits have been found in 25 of them. Fortunately, it is only in five of them where it has been found in the waterworks drilling. Yet it is a very, very small part, as it is certainly not, because we have to stand and be afraid that our groundwater is heavily contaminated by glyphosat and that is why we also have the opportunity to do something. So again it's probably more of a comment in Dansk Folkeparti we look forward to receiving the invitation when we have to find the solutions forward-looking, and we would also like to sign for this debate at all, and that is because of the fact that there has been a citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160727	Yes, and I think it is really important that we go to it politically and say what ambition we have. Now we are not discussing glyphosat in concrete terms, but we have written into the paper we agree with Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals that we want to reduce the use of pesticides, and there this is one of the tools. It cannot stand alone, but it is an important step and element in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160745	Sir. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160748	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear that the Minister is reasonably positive about this citizens' proposal, but I am a little surprised that one will not say clearly where Denmark is going to be placed by 2022 when we are going to negotiate again whether this substance should continue to be allowed. Why is it that one does not want to state clearly that Denmark is standing on the team that will fight against glyphosat?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160811	This is linked to the order that is important in this, precisely that when we approve or choose not to approve substances in the European Union, we are on a scientific basis. That is what we are doing today, and we must also do that in the future, and that is why right now there is a process in which we look into everything that is of reports and newest knowledge, etc., and where Denmark, as such, also asks some of the countries that have been part of this discussion, what it is based on, whether they have any reports, and whether they have any new knowledge that we need to get into this. For it is clear that if a health-related, scientifically documented problem can be shown, we must of course act on it, but it must be in the order in which we get that knowledge first, and then, when we have to take a position, forward to the matter being reviewed, we must have a political decision on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160857	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160859	But there are no people who disagree that we should use the new knowledge; of course we should. But this is also a debate that has been going on for decades. In other words, I think there would be an important signal if we had a government that went out and said: this is an important political agenda for us and we would like to join with other countries such as Austria or France or Germany in pushing for much stricter legislation in this area. Then why don't you make that announcement? If we then get a completely new, revolutionary knowledge of glyphosat that it's just completely safe... then you can take it in. But why not make a clear statement and make some alliances to push for more progressive legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114160938	Well, I also work very much with the progressive countries of the European Union in relation to the EU's environmental policy, and this is also about pesticides in general: what it takes to approve them, help with scientific work, what limitations there should be and how we can work for green alternatives. So, the whole new European Green Deal, which is about to start here, is also very much about what kind of environment we want in the future, and there are, of course, the pesticides that are important, so we must work to limit them. However, in relation to the specific approvals, we also have to rely on concrete knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161013	Mrs. Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161021	Thank you. I just want to sign for the Minister's speech, which I have here, because I was just in the bathroom when it was held, but then I was allowed to have it delivered, which is really good, but I just have to ask for it. It says in several places that the government is positive about efforts to limit the use of pesticides on private and public grounds, and it says that the government will explore different options. Can't we get this a little clearer? Will the government also support a proposal to ban the use of these pesticides as far as possible on specific types of surface on private and public grounds? In fact, it is only fair that we should also be able to look at the word'support' in addition to the word'support'.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161103	Yes, the government is working to obtain a ban on public and private land; what is just important in relation to the discussion we are having right now about the citizens' proposal is that it should be a ban that remains within the scope of EU law, and there are some different elements that make what is here unsupportable. But I think it is really important for me also to send out that signal to all the people who have signed this, that we agree. We agree that it is important to reduce the use of pesticides in general, and that is why we are now looking at how we can do it, on the one hand, and so that it is within EU law, on the other hand, to ensure that there are no safety problems that give rise to any of these exceptions. So that's what we're working for. When the work on that study is done, then of course we will have to discuss this again in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161149	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161157	So we can expect a government proposal to ban the use of pesticides on specific types of surface on private and public grounds. That is how I understand the Minister. I just wanted to get the minister all the way to the plank, because that is really how I hear it. That's what I hear being said between the lines. But it could be so nice to hear it said quite plainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161216	Well, I think I am trying to make it as clear as I can at all, but it is my ambition that we should have that ban in Denmark in relation to the use of pesticides on private and public areas. But it is also just important for me, when we have that debate, to say: well, the EU rules we have will set limits on the areas for which we can ban them, and then, of course, as a government, we will also have some reflection on what exceptions should be, and that is one of them. in relation to security, and that is also what we can see other countries, among others. has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161247	Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161251	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that we are today with a minister who will not vote in favour of the citizens' proposal, but I am still hearing the good tactics in relation to the government itself making a proposal. But I would really like to know what the timetable is. Is there any estimate of when we can expect such a proposal, when can all citizens who have signed the citizens' proposal expect action to be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161320	I understand that it would have been very nice if we could all press the green button when, as I hear, we now agree on the ambitions of this proposal, but it is also the responsibility of the government to ensure that the common rules we have with each other in the European Union are complied with. Indeed, we support the European Union as an institution and the common rules that we adopt there, and that is why we must, of course, remain within those rules. But as it is the government's ambition that we should have this ban, we are currently examining how we can do it in concrete terms. I do not have a precise timetable for the completion of that study, but it is clearly my goal that this is something that we will have to discuss here again before so awfully long, and Enhedslisten must be some of the first ones that I shall invite when the study is ready, because I have the expectation that in this field we can actually agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161414	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161416	We welcome this invitation because we want to help limit the use of pesticides as much as possible. In this context, I would also like to make a comment. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency has been mentioned in this connection, and right now there is a great political focus on biodiversity, and this is happening around the world, and it is also happening in Denmark, where we are several parties that have led us to make a great effort for the Danish nature. In this connection, there has also been research published by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which actually points out that the use of pesticides in fields, but also on private areas, of course having an impact on biodiversity, has an impact on the number of bees, and I just want to know if the Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161503	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161505	It is true that it is now, of course, a little general and that it quickly becomes very technical when you go into relation to the specific pesticides, but it is Denmark's task with all the smart people we have, among other things. in the Danish EPA, to make sure that we base ourselves on the best possible knowledge, and we must work for this, also in connection with the EU authorisations. We have to say that if we get new knowledge, among other things. in relation to bees, and what can affect them, so that we take better care of them than we do today, it must of course count in the assessments that are, because we must take good care of human health, our environment and our groundwater. That's what's the big pointer in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161541	We thank the Minister for the Environment and then we go to the rapporteur. First of all, it is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161558	Thank you, President. I am just so happy today because I have been looking forward to having this debate. At times when people are talking about politicians and people think that democracy is completely hopeless, 53 000 people have signed that they want us to reduce the consumption of pesticides. I think that is a bit far from it, and I would also like to thank you for it. I myself, as a Social Democrat, have been working for years to inform you about all the many problems that can be posed by pesticides, about our vulnerable groundwater, about drinking water right below us, which is so vulnerable, and if we are to have clean drinking water, we are completely dependent on our thinking and our being careful. It is a pity, then, that the proposal we have before us today from the citizens is not in line with EU law, but what we have just heard from the Minister for the Environment means that, regardless of EU law, the government is scratching. It wants a proposal that reduces the consumption of pesticides and one that is EU-sustainable, and I think that is very wise, because it must be a long-lasting solution that we find, and it is only long-lasting if it remains within the framework of the agreements we have made. It must also be a sustainable solution. It may not come as a surprise that we Social Democrats support the government in this matter, but it is also something I do from the heart, because it is important that we reduce the consumption of pesticides, and we must of course address where it is least necessary to use it, and that is in public areas and private areas. So thank you to citizens who have worked hard who have used your democratic rights. I am sure that you will see that it was all worth it when we get a bill in this Parliament that actually implements what has been the intention of your proposal, to which we just cannot say yes today. We are going to reduce the consumption of spray poison. That was the whole point. So I look forward to the next time it becomes a bill that we will be dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161919	There are a few comments to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. First, it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114161928	Thank you. First of all, I have to note the rather funny and extremely hypocritical nature of this huge tribute to the citizens' proposal and the 53,000 who signed it, because for that it is worth noting that the Social Democrats voted against the system of introducing citizens' proposals, unlike the Conservative People's Party. So it might be relevant enough to hear whether the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude to the citizens' proposals and whether you want to support this model in the future, if you so much welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162000	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162003	I think we can use our time today to make jokes. What I am dealing with is the citizen's proposal that lies here. I'm telling you, 53,000 people have signed it. No, we do not think that the way in which that arrangement was put together was right, but it should not stop me from being happy that there are some Danes who are involved in the cases.I will allow myself to be so and when it is even a few Danes I agree with, I cannot but be enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162047	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162048	Now it was the rapporteur who used most of his speech to talk about the citizens' model rather than to review the content of the citizens' proposal itself, so it gave rise to my comment. But then I would just like to hear here follow-up whether there are other places, other resorts, where in future it will be the politicians who will be the science and who will be the judges of what is allowed and what is not allowed and where we must override all the scientific practice there is, rather than being the ones who make the decisions in here. Will it be the end of being advised by governments and other public authorities in the future? Is it really the way to save a lot of money in the public sector? you could be tempted to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162127	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162128	The first part of my speech was about the citizens' proposal, and perhaps it was no wonder, because it is a citizens' proposal that we have before us, and that is why, of course, I am referring to the citizens' proposal. Well, now it was a lot of different things that came. In relation to whether it is we politicians who have to decide what should be allowed and what should not be allowed, the answer is: yes, it is. I quite agree that this is the way it should be. But I'm sure this is all about the Environmental Protection Agency, right? That is what the questioner is aiming for and on which she also asked the Minister. Well, we may think that the use of spray poison should be reduced as much as possible, and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency doesn't say that this isn't right either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162216	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162218	When you have an ambition to reduce the use of pesticides, you don't have to make a ban where you say to others: you can't use this. You can take the lead in setting a good example. Whether there is a ban or not a ban, you can say to yourself: I choose not to use it at home in my garden. Just as the state can say: we choose not to use it on government land. Is the Social Democratic Party willing to do so? So is one willing to simply follow up his own ambition to reduce the use of pesticides on state land?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162250	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162251	I can start by saying that I don't use it at home on my terrace. That was the first part of it. The second part is about the question: What about the state? Well, as I hear the Minister, that is exactly what she wants, that is to say, that everywhere in the state areas where it is justified there must be a ban of one kind or one kind. How this is going to be linked up, we do not know exactly at this time, but it is then the state that is going to take the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162320	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162323	I just have to understand: do you or do you not have an ambition to have a ban on the use of pesticides on state land? Because if you have that ambition, you do not have to make legislation that involves a ban. You can just as the owner of Banedanmark, for example, who is a big user of sprays, probably for good reasons, say: you can no longer use those pesticides; you have to find some other ways to deal with your challenges from tomorrow. Why don't you do that? You don't have to make a ban, you don't have to make legislation. You can just issue it as an order as owner of state land.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162400	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162403	As I understand it, both municipalities, regions and the state have done everything in their power to reduce the consumption of pesticides by voluntary means. Then there may be some other areas and now the questioner specifically mentions the railways where you have to go and look at it. It is not the case that we can have trains running off the rails because there are too much weeds, or what do I know I am not an expert on; I cannot stand here standing and say that. But I can certainly see that there are reasons why there are places where it has to be used and where there are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162439	Now I stand up very slowly so that Mrs Zenia Stampe can come to her place to ask the question she would like to put to Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162451	Yes, and perhaps it was the Minister I should have asked, but now Mrs Mette Gjerskov is from the same party, and that is probably something that you will come back with answers to. However, we actually have the opportunity to table amendments to citizens' proposals. Because I think it is a pity if it ends up with a proposal which is supported in principle because of the word immediately and because it has not been properly defined. Could you imagine and I have respect for if you can't answer now, but now I'm just mentioning that you made an amendment where you, for example. Did the word immediately remove, so that we have the opportunity to do this phase-in, which we need to comply with EU law, and where something was also written about the need for a demarcation? Was it something that the government and the Social Democrats would be interested in talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162539	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162541	Yes, I really wish the rapporteur had asked the Minister about that. Now she asked the minister earlier to go out the plank, and I think it's my turn to go out the plank. It would be wonderful if we could just make an amendment and then get things together, but there are a number of different issues in relation to the text that is here. That is not just the word immediately, it is also a question of what are some pesticides covered and whether that is the way we should go. We need to have this looked into. There is also a question of the exceptions that need to be. I spoke to Mr. Jacob Jensen about them just now, and these may also be other exceptions. There may be, for example: I know that they have a problem in some countries. Can all this be merged into an amendment to a proposal like this? I think it will be difficult. I actually imagine it's gonna be a law that's gonna be a little long. But let's take it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162654	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162656	That is why I did not expect a clear answer either. That would also be unfair, because I have not mentioned it to the government before either. But I would just like to say that I really think that the most beautiful way to deal with this issue is to think that we have some of the proposers here today too, if we know that this is the direction in which we are heading and may even hope to find a good solution, not tomorrow, but during the spring. Yeah, sorry about the reference. But then perhaps the best solution will in fact be to spend a few months in the second reading and to find amendments that might make it possible, in the end, to vote in favour of not the original proposal, but an amended proposal, because in that case it will be in line with what the government itself intends to put forward. At least I think that's the lead we're going to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162742	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162744	It is clear that when we have a motion for a resolution, we say: okay, if the government can come and deliver something, then it is fine, and thank you for that; that is good, then we will look at that bill when it comes, and then we will discuss it on the basis of the bill that the government comes with. It's usually the way we deal with it. I am well aware that this is a citizen's proposal and that it makes things a little different. In fact, we want a little extra to accommodate the proposers in relation to what is usually done. Let us take this up in committee, but I think it will be difficult. The most important thing here is that we reduce the use of spray poison.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162830	Then we thank Mrs Mette Gjerskov as Social Democrat rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line and then it becomes Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114162840	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall vote in favour of the joy that has been expressed that we have the opportunity to discuss these matters. Regardless of whether it comes from one way or another, it is always a good thing to have things discussed here in the main hall of the Kingdom, the Assembly Hall, it is at least the stronghold of democracy, and so do we here today. We, as a party and therefore also as representatives of a lot of people in the country who voted for us, also care about the environment and groundwater, which is basically what this proposal is about. As you know, when we were in government responsibilities, we were also at the forefront of various efforts. After all, we have talked about the so-called BNBO areas, in other words those areas where there are water wells, where special protection zones and other efforts have been made in relation to the protection of groundwater. Having said that, we also have some reflections on the more concrete proposal arising from the citizens' proposal we are talking about here, among other things. the proposed immediate cessation of the sale and use of non-commercial pesticides and, as it stands, only suspected harmful substances. In this context, I am a little concerned about what kind of line we are going to lay down, because there must somehow be a guideline for those who can use or cannot use and those who can sell or cannot sell different products in this country. There must be a uniformity about it, and it must of course be based on the recommendations that we get from our board, in this case the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. Then it can be said, as I heard the Minister mention, that in some areas the Danish EPA has some approaches to it, but I have certainly not heard that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency should have gone in and said that in this case there is a particular remedy for glyphosat, but it could also be other pesticides that are so harmful that it should not be used. Of course, we can learn more about this, but as long as they have not done so, it is our starting point, at least, that it is expertise that must be guiding, not some concern that one can, of course, rightly have, and which we can also have far along the way, about what the various pesticides can do. In this context, however, I am leaning towards what professional knowledge makes of recommendations, and this applies both to the Danish management, but also to the chemicals agency that the EU has, where the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is also represented, in relation to, for example, which substances are carcinogenic, which substances are not, under which conditions they can be used and so on. That is certainly the approach we want to take. Also the statements we hear from various other advisors and researchers in the field of e.g. Susanne Hougaard Bennekou from DTU, who says that there are no studies that show any causal link between exposure and cancer development specifically for glyphosat, but it could also be from other areas I think is something that should be taken as a starting point. In relation to sales to private individuals, only what you can call ready-to-use products is already sold precisely to ensure that you do not get a concentration that is simply too high in your garden. I would also like to make some kind of response, in the sense that if we have now created these zones in the BNBO areas in a professional context, we could consider, in the committee work that is to come, whether we could look at them in this instance in relation to private ones, because there may be private gardens or other areas which are adjacent to BNBO areas. It could also be State land or other public land I have been to Banedanmark which is close to or within the zones for which we normally have protection or for which we have recently received protection in the BNBO areas. In any case, it can be said that groundwater cannot tell whether something comes from a farmer's field, whether it comes from Banedanmarks or the land of the state, or whether it comes from a private garden or from where it comes from. I think it might be possible to look specifically at whether you should use that approach and go that way. Otherwise, as I have said, it is our starting point that it is the recommendations of expertise that we get, both in terms of safety and health-related applications, that we will lean on. And in general we will look at what efforts we need to make to ensure that we get the best groundwater protection for the efforts that can now be made, and this must be based on precisely the expertise and expert recommendations that come from our governing body in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163336	There are three who have signed up for short remarks, and the first is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163341	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur want more spray poison or less spray poison to be used in Denmark? Because this is also a political wish. Well, we live life forward. We have to make decisions on the factual basis we currently have, but we also know that in the course of history we have discovered the sins of the past over and over again. This is among other things. The reason why I think it is important to reduce the consumption of spray poison in Denmark. I do not understand what the rapporteur is talking about from any of the opinions of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in this proposal, which deals with pesticides in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163438	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163439	Well, well, I want you to of course think it's open door, you run in; it's almost a rhetorical question. I want you to use as little as possible, but I would also like us to have some, you might say, relatively clear guidelines on what is allowed, what is not allowed, and what reasons are given, what expert arguments are behind allowing something and banning something else. I think that should be fair, so that it is not based on one, and it should not be misunderstood, such in the goose-eyes of random suspicion, or on someone having a concern. Who's anybody? Who is it? Can everyone come up with a suspicion, and then we're gonna make a ban? I think it must be important that we at least have that description of the individual products. I know that this is about a general reduction in pesticides in private and public areas. But then I just have to ask the counter-question to which I was also trying to answer, namely whether there is anything to prevent us, as Parliament, from saying to the government or saying to Banedanmark, for example, or in other areas of state territory: stop using it. There is nothing to prevent that from happening. So it is a bit the hypocrisy that I think is being displayed here today, that is to say, that you stand and say that you want to spend less, but you do not want to do anything about it anyway. I don't think that's entirely serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163554	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163556	If anyone in this Parliament has fought against spray poison, it is the Social Democracy. I'd like to remind you of that, sir. Jacob Jensen about. I know that personally. But I still didn't get an answer to that question. Obviously, it is a little the case that you want to restrict consumption, and yet you do not want to. So, would the Left like to limit the consumption of spray poison? And if the Left wishes to do so, why would the Left not support the offer made by the Minister to come up with a legislative proposal to limit the consumption of pesticides?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163635	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163636	I know that I have not rejected any offer from the Minister today, at least because I have not seen any offer from the Minister, beyond what she has, of course, tried to describe here from the platform. So, in my rapporteur's speech, I also tried to say that we have to do things in an appropriate way. For example, I mentioned the bnbo areas. We have already introduced them in certain parts of the country, but we could not look at whether it was also possible in private areas, for example, so that it is not always just the farmer who is accused of environmental fraud. Because it does not necessarily come only from the farmer's property; it might as well come from a state area and it could come from a private garden. That is a proposal that could be further worked on. These are the things we have to do. I just think we need to feel that when we get recommendations from our governments, that is also what we start from when we talk about real bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163723	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163725	I also think that if you are to understand the rapporteur, you have to read between the lines here. I believe that the rapporteur really raises a slightly different debate in relation to the whole glyphosat discussion, i.e. whether it is harmful to health or not. I do not really think this proposal has so much to do with that debate; it has something to do with whether it is a problem when we find that we find chemicals of one kind or another, that is, pesticides, in water wells and what we have to do in concrete terms. This is a proposal for what you, among other things. You can do that, namely to say: do not use the very large concentrations in gardens and drive it over to a garden site that is then close to a water well. It is just a concrete means of protecting our groundwater. I am not assuming that the discussion that the rapporteur is raising is a discussion about whether we should raise the limit values. So, I assume that the Left believes that the limit values we have for chemicals and our groundwater are the ones we need to safeguard and that if we suddenly start to see that there are chemicals whose limit values have been exceeded, then we, as politicians, must do something and act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163839	I fully agree with that. I mean, I don't speak for any limit values. I speak in favour of us doing the things that also have an effect. That is why, when we discuss a general ban, I just point out that there must be some kind of guideline for what we are banning and what we are allowing. Then I think that we have already gone in and looked at the drilling areas in other contexts, so it might be appropriate to look at it in this context, that is to say to be inspired by it and to say: there may be some different EU legal reasons why you cannot take the proposal as it stands and that there may be other reasons, but I think there might be an idea just to ask whether there are any drilling areas. The rapporteur mentions garden waste sites. If there may be a particularly high concentration there, which would happen to lie within a few meters from a borehole, why not look at it? After all, groundwater cannot tell whether it comes from a field or from inside a garden site or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163936	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114163938	That is why I also hear that the rapporteur is sympathetic to the debate that is going on now, namely how we can define it here, i.e. whether we can make a definition which is both in line with EU law but which also concentrates on those areas where there is a real problem, i.e. an increased risk of these chemicals ending up in our groundwater. Is that how I understand the rapporteur, that is to say that it is not a final yes, but that it is a discussion and some discussions that the Left would like to take part in as a starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164013	Finally, I can say that it is a final 'yes' to the discussion that is so absolute. It is, after all, like all the policies that we have pursued and continue to stand for, that is: where is the most beneficial thing to do? And if we can see that there are some places where we are vulnerable to our groundwater and that's typical of the drilling, which in some way is some wounds down through the layers of the soil. Well then that's where we have to put in. So I would like to sign for that and very much like to enter into discussions and negotiations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164041	Before I give the floor to Mrs Mai Villadsen, I would just like to ask that Members of the House, when they wish to speak the second time, remember to press the button. It is the case that there is a right to speak, but not a duty to speak, and it is not necessarily the case that one wishes to speak the second time. So it can ease the business from up here, if you remember. Then I shall give the floor to Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164105	Thank you. This summer one could read how a waste dump at Karise had to close because so many spray poisons from the garden waste simply leaked into the water. This testifies to the fact that there are simply some citizens out there who spray too much in their gardens. Our proposal is then to support the citizens' proposal and say that we should ban the use of pesticides in private gardens, but I understand that the rapporteur from the Left does not think that is a good idea. How, then, does the rapporteur propose to solve the problem of people spraying too much, to the detriment of groundwater, but also to the detriment of biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164150	In other words, once again, I believe that we must lean on the recommendations that we receive in relation to the means of health damage, so carcinogens, what resources are harmful to biodiversity and what means it would be okay to use within the boundaries and the guidelines that will of course also be in terms of concentration and other things. These are, of course, the guidelines which I think it must at least be fair to lean on as a layman in this context. Then, of course, we can have that as an ambition, too, to bring the overall level down, but especially in those areas where what I tried to say to Mrs Zenia Stampe before actually has an impact on the environment. And there again I'm just thinking quite low-practical that there are some places where it's more important than others, and let's try to look at it instead of saying that it's all going away if we know that there are some places where it actually can be done, but where there are other places where it's more vulnerable. So let's start with the places that are most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164243	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164246	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur mentions expertise and science several times, and I would just like to urge the rapporteur to actually read on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's website, where a report was published in September which shows that even small amounts of pesticides were used on, for example. a field, but also in a garden, i.e. effects on the flowers in as much as 10 m away from the area where they have been sprayed, which means something. This is of course important for the opportunities for bees to thrive, for our biodiversity. So the expertise says, limit this as much as possible if you want to take care of nature. In fact, I think the rapporteur has yet to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164328	That is certainly not what the board says, because if you say that you want to limit it as much as possible, that means that there must be a ban, and I have not heard of that ban, at least not in relation to some of the things we are talking about. Some of the products that are currently legal are per. definition lawful and therefore not prohibited. And the utmost reduction in the consumption of a specific product would be done by banning it, and there has been no recommendation from the board, for example, about glyphosat. There isn't. So it is just as from that point of view that I say that we must listen to what the experts say can be used within certain limits and in certain concentrations and certain areas, and then start from that. At least that's the approach I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164407	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164410	I'm kind of curious about the more principle of this, about whether we need spray poison in Denmark. One thing is to say that we must limit it as much as possible, and look at where it is, it may have some problems, and something else is that we see time and again, when new knowledge comes into play, that the limit values have been violated more and more places. So does the precautionary principle really not advocate banning the use of spray poison, or will the Left at all costs look at where we can use spray poison and that it is only a few places to stop using it? It's to understand the more principle of the Left's position on this. Do we not want to use spray poison in Denmark, which can be measured in our groundwater, or do we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164457	We want to lean on the experts who know these things, and the experts I have at least noted have not banned, for example, the active substance contained in the substance Roundup. It's just to give a concrete example. That is sometimes what might explain a principle, and that is the principle on which we work. Then we are fully aware that there are areas where it can be environmentally indefensible or where there is at least a precautionary principle, among other things. These drilling areas, the BNBO areas. That is why, when we had government power, we went in, fortunately by a majority, and protected those areas. That is why I am also asking today to say: could we not look at it on the basis of the proposal we are talking about here, because there may of course be areas which are currently up to a BNBO area but which are not covered anyway because they are outside the commercial areas? I think it must be relevant to do so. It is from such a low-practical approach that we must do what makes the most sense to the environment. Then, of course, one might ask whether this is a precautionary principle. Well, then we should stop breathing. This would be best compared to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164557	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164559	Now the rapporteur of the Left himself says that it would be irresponsible to talk about today, so let us stick to the issue of pesticides. It is simply because I do not understand it. Now that we find residues of spray poison in our groundwater, I think it's natural to say: Okay, well, we should be careful and not instead of finding out how many loopholes we can make, so we can keep using spray poison. That is where I should understand how careful one wants to be in the Left and how far one wants to go to protect our groundwater, or should we look at how little is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164634	We are not in favour of a total ban because there is a ban, and I think I also heard the Minister mention it in relation to my question earlier on areas where there are other considerations to take into account. That is why I just mentioned to give an example of Banedanmark's areas, where you use Roundup to fight weeds. It may be for a safety reason, so that the weeds do not come up and that the trains do not get off the rails, as Mrs Mette Gjerskov explained so figuratively before. There may be other considerations, but I think we need to have a consideration of fairness and the practicality of saying that where we make the bets, there is also where we can see that the impact of what we do is greatest. That is what I am kind of starting from the advice that our authorities in this area are giving us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164720	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen from the Left. And then it's sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114164732	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge that the citizens' proposal has reached the Parliamentary Chamber. In any case, it has given rise to a great deal of debate, and I can say as chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Food that it has also given a great deal of debate in committee. And it has to be said that politics is about talking to each other, so just that a citizen's proposal comes in here, so that we debate it today and we have debated it in committee, of course, that we also develop policy in relation to it in dialogue with each other. So first there's a receipt for it. Then there is the proposal itself. It is, after all, very broadly worded. It is also about insecticides and, in general, pesticides that are used privately. As I also said when I put my question to the Minister, we are probably very much in line with the Minister in terms of how we are going to deal with this. We in the Danish People's Party want us to use as few pesticides as possible. There is no doubt that this is what we want, but we also want to use them where it makes the most sense. To give an example: if we were to say that we were to ban today, it might be that we were standing here in a few years' time and saying that it is unbelievable, so much bottled gas is being sold. How much CO2 Now all the owners are starting to go out there and use gas burners, so how do we affect the climate compared to it? There is always a consequence when you make a decision in the Folketing that can go one way or the other. Therefore, I think that when we talk about the use of glyphosat, it is right to ask: is there anywhere where it is particularly harmful? Indeed, it is on the fortified areas. It is a very small root zone plant, which it goes through when you spray on the tiles and it runs down between the cracks. In fact, it does not make sense at least it makes sense that this is where the highest level of pollution occurs. So the proposal is not, after all, a proposal that is wrong. It is certainly a proposal that highlights some of the challenges that exist. But the challenge goes both ways, so there are challenges in relation to a ban, but also challenges in relation to the places where it actually makes the most sense to use the product glyphosat. So we have taken this proposal very positively, and I hope, as chairman of the committee, that we can have a good and constructive debate on how the proposal is to end. And the proposal from the Radical Left on amendments and other things, I certainly do not think we should shoot down. I also agree with the answer given by Mette Gjerskov: that it may also be too difficult in relation to a resolution that lies there. But there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party will not only leave this proposal to be a debate we have in Parliament today; we will also use it as a stepping stone to continue working on it, including in committee with all the challenges, pitfalls and opportunities that lie in it. So thank you for allowing us to debate it today. I would also like to make it quite clear, if anyone would like to ask whether we are voting in favour of the proposal, that we do not. We are not voting in favour of the proposal as it stands here, but we will certainly continue to work on the idea behind it, and I hope that the other parties of the Folketing will want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165049	Then I have two entries, and that is first Mrs Mette Abildgaard from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165053	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think I have some doubts about where the Danish People's Party actually stands. On the one hand, I hear support as such for the intention of the citizens' proposal in relation to this with an immediate stop to the use of pesticides, but on the other hand, the rapporteur himself mentioned in his speech that in many cases there was a reason for use. I do not think that farmers, for example, are spraying their fields for fun and spending a lot of money on it. I think they are doing so because it serves an essential purpose in getting the best out of production. So I really think that is a bit contradictory. Because when you go in and look at who has categorized glyphate internationally as, for example, the carcinogen, it was the rapporteur himself mentioned earlier in relation to the groundwater, you can see that there is a lot, very broad support internationally for this not being so that we can try to learn a little bit more about exactly where DF stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165205	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165206	Yeah, we can do that. First of all, I wasn't talking about calling this substance carcinogenic. In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur of the alternative, who said that we really want this to go into drinking water? Actually, I don't think anyone wants that. And if you don't want it, you can look at how to reduce its use, that is, use it where it makes sense. I must also say to the rapporteur for the Conservatives that this proposal has nothing to do with agriculture. I would also like to sign for that to those who have made the proposal. In fact, this is only about gardening and public land use, in other words, in private and public areas. That's what this is about. We will have the opportunity later today to discuss how to use glyphate in agriculture. But what is clear to us is that we want to be involved in working towards less spending, and there are certainly some places where private people use this product and it doesn't make sense, for example on tiled walks and elsewhere. That is also what the Minister said, namely how to work on it here, when citizens use it correctly if there is no ban. And the Danish People's Party does not want a ban to come, because then we will get something else instead. You can also still buy it away in Germany, although they also have an opportunity to say that there are some places you can use it and other places where you can't use it. There you can buy it at a much smaller price than it costs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165320	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165321	The rapporteur is absolutely right that this proposal is not about agriculture. That is what one of the later motions for resolutions we will be discussing. I look forward to hearing where the Danish People's Party is in this matter. Nevertheless, there was also, for example, this case with DSB, with Banedanmark, i.e. their land, where there might be some concern. When I mention this with the carcinogenic effect, it is because the rapporteur has problematized that very small quantities had been found in very few boreholes. And when it was made a problem, I assume that it is because the rapporteur believes that there are some health consequences of that and there is just no scientific evidence for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165402	I would like to say that the Danish People's Party considers it problematic if we find foreign substances in our groundwater. Then we can always discuss how much we need and how disease-causing it is. However, as a starting point, we want our groundwater to be clean. Here we are faced with a challenge which, in fact, is not so great, and that is why I believe that the solution lies there. As I said, more than 25,000 measurements were made, and it has been found in very, very few cases. And the quantities were also very small. Therefore, I do not think that this should be a discussion about whether to be for or against. I really believe that this should be a discussion that we would like to use as a lever to find out how to ensure that we cannot measure it in our groundwater, even if it is very small levels of detection we find, because we do not want foreign substances in our groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165444	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165445	Thank you. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the positive attitude of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and thus of the chairman of the committee to the intentions of this proposal. In the past, Mrs Zenia Stampe asked the Minister to go out the plank and me too. Now I think I will try to see how much I can test the rapporteur and ask whether the rapporteur will be involved, now that we are embarking on the work of the committee, simply to say: well, then we will go wholeheartedly into the discussions that come when a bill is presented by the government, and we will do everything we can to reduce the consumption of pesticides, simply.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165535	Yes, we absolutely do. Now you have to remember that this may be more about use than reducing the amount. Because the challenge here is that when you look at the quantity, the quantity in agriculture is; the quantity is simply not with the private and the public areas. That's not where the large quantities are being used. There are at least some places in the private community I don't think it's as common in the public sector where the product is simply used in some inappropriate places, i.e. where there isn't this root zone to record the glyphosate. If there is a proper root zone system, I kind of agree with others who have said that glyfosat is actually a well-tested product that has been made incredibly many tests for over 40 years and if you use it in the right way, the product is not very harmful, but you can definitely also use it wrong. And that is the discussion we are going to have, namely on how to ensure that the product is used properly. It could be a ban. That could be enlightenment. That's where we're gonna land.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165625	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165629	Thank you. That is where we came very, very far; I would say so. What is important is also to reduce use where it is least necessary. Agreed. I think that is also a starting point for the rapporteur. This is certainly a starting point for me in this discussion. Let us now start by removing it where it is least necessary and where there can actually be an adverse effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165701	But on the part of the Danish People's Party we are going into this debate, which we are going to have first in committee, and then we have to see what ends with what we can write out there. And then, of course, we have also signed the Minister's statement that, at a later stage, when the government agrees with itself, some negotiations will be convened on how to deal with this in the future. We will go into this with a positive mind and look at how we can solve the challenges with the opportunities that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165727	Thank you, sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114165733	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the citizens' group who have raised this debate. At least I recognize some of you sitting up and especially welcome to you. Thank you, too, to the many citizens who have engaged in the debate and put their signature on the proposal, which is why we are discussing it in the Chamber today. And as we can already hear, I think we are far from finished discussing it. I think it is very good that we are reminded that our drinking water is one of the most important resources we have and that it is a very special Danish thing that we can pick it up directly from the ground and send it out into the water taps of the country and that we can drink it without it having been through a chemical purification. That's not just luck. It is, of course, an expression of political decisions and of our groundwater being a value that we safeguard for a special Danish value. It was just before I made a tear when I heard the Danish People's Party talk about groundwater up here, because there are some Danish values on which we agree, we can then see, and that is wonderful. We are discussing very much Danish values in here, and one of the things that we think is a Danish value, and which I actually think very many Danes think is a Danish value, but as we may have a tendency to take for granted, is that as one of very few countries we can go and drain our water directly from the tap and drink it, knowing that it comes from groundwater and thus has not been through a chemical purification process. It is unique to Denmark. But it is also a value that we can sometimes take for granted, and I therefore believe that there were a great many politicians, but certainly many citizens who received an abrupt awakening this summer, when we heard this story from Karise, where a waste dump had to close because very large amounts of pesticides had been found during the waste dump. And it was an extra aggravating fact that there was 100 m away from this place of work a drinking water well. This clearly showed that we also need to look at the private use of pesticides. It is a very small proportion of the total amount of pesticides, but this was a hint with a rod that it is an independent problem. When it is an independent problem, it is also because it is used in a different way than in agriculture, where there is control, whereas there is no control when we use it in gardens, and many tend to use it in too large quantities, too large concentrations, because, as usual, consumers do not know better. There is also an extra risk that it will be washed out for groundwater when you use it on tiles or pearl. So there's a good reason to look exactly at this private use of pesticides. It actually has an impact on our drinking water and groundwater. That is why we support the citizens' proposal. After all, we have taken note of what the Minister and the government have said, namely that the wording itself could be anti-EU. In other words, if it were a legislative proposal that introduced an immediate stoppage of sales for public and private consumption, it could be contrary to EU law. But this is a resolution and a resolution works in such a way that, if there is a majority in favour of it, the government is sent to implement it. We will try to table some amendments so that we get a wording that is in line with the coinage that the government may be on the way with anyway. If we had not been able to table amendments, we would probably have made a contribution to the report, in which we wrote that we support the proposal, that we vote for it, but that the report we pass on to the government is, of course, not to make an EU-unlawful proposal, but that it is to translate it here in a way that, of course, respects EU law. Those of us who are from an EU-positive party, who, of course, could never support EU-unlawful legislation, believe that you can. We believe that the motion for a resolution can be supported with the message that the implementation of it should not, of course, be contrary to the European Union, and if we can even secure it by making an amendment, that is the best way to go, because it may even mean that we can get a majority in favour of it here in Parliament. I think that would be such a beautiful way out of a citizen's proposal. I think it would be so sad to vote it down if there really is support in principle for it and that it is a matter of concrete demarcation. If the government is on the way with that demarcation, then I think we should extend the debate so that we can get that demarcation into the form of an amendment so that we can ultimately get a majority in favour of it in this Chamber. I think that would be the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170232	Mrs Abildgaard has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170237	Thanks for the speech. A few years ago, the Radical Left launched this great advertising campaign, which I think many remember. We're listening. Also to the experts, one of the campaign slogans sounded. That is why I would like to hear whether, in this case too, we listen to the experts. For the rapporteur talks about how the use of pesticides in private gardens can very easily pose a major problem for our groundwater. When it comes to private gardens, I assume it is a means such as glyphosat which is one of the most widely used funds spoken of. It is certainly one of the most widely used means in private gardens. Otherwise, the rapporteur will have to tell us what that means. Let me take just one quote from one of the experts: "We rarely find glyphosate in groundwater monitoring or in the drinking water wells of general water plants. In fact, in 2018 there was not a single glyphosate finding in the groundwater monitoring. It was Anders Risbjerg Johnsen, senior researcher in geochemistry at the National Geological Surveys for Denmark and Greenland, who said so. Time doesn't allow me to take any more quotes, but I could read a stripe. So why is it not worth listening to these experts who point out that it does not pose a risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170347	Well, I can hear that Mrs Mette Abildgaard really wants that discussion about experts and what is harmful to health or not. I also believe that we will have that discussion about what is carcinogenic or not when we discuss the proposal to ban it in relation to agriculture. I think this is a slightly different discussion. This is about whether or not we want it in our groundwater. After all, we have certain limit values, and it may be that one could say: 'Well, you exceed the limit values'. You don't get cancer from that. No, it may be; it may also be that there are some experts who would say that you do not get cancer from drinking any water with traces of glyphosat. But do we want it? Therefore, I would like to ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard: does Mrs Mette Abildgaard want us to review our many limit values? So, should we begin to accept that there are more chemical residues in our groundwater, because at least there is no scientific evidence right now to say that they are carcinogenic? Is this the way that the otherwise green party in the blue block is heading out, or how am I supposed to interpret your question?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170451	If the rapporteur would now just stick to answering the question and not allow himself to interpret and will respect the fact that it is now my turn to ask questions, then the rapporteur will have every opportunity to ask questions when I have to take the floor a little later. When assessing pesticides today, it is done on the basis of both health and biodiversity considerations. This is done on the basis of a number of considerations. How does this affect our groundwater, and how does it affect our society in general? When the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has decided that you should continue to use glyphosat in Denmark, it is of course on the basis of this assessment that this does not present a risk. It is the clear professional judgement that it does not pose a risk. And that is why I ask again: are we listening in the Radical Left to the experts?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170538	Now I think I was able to clarify what has gone wrong with the Conservative People's Party. I believe that Mrs Mette Abildgaard is mixing two things together. One thing is what makes you approve a drug. It is true that there is an authorisation procedure. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency sits and evaluates various studies. That is one thing, and that is another discussion. This isn't a talk about banning certain substances. This is a question of what we do in relation to the risk that some of these chemicals will end up in our groundwater. There we just have a special groundwater system in Denmark where we say that we will not accept that there are a lot of chemicals in our water. So yes, we may well have approved funds, but at the same time say that we just don't want them suddenly to be the ones we brave in the faucet. And that is actually the question here; it is not the approval of funds, but it is whether we will accept that it ends up in our groundwater and that it ends up in the tap.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170627	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. I should also like to say to the debate on questions and answers that if we take this opportunity from the floor of Parliament to ask questions to those who ask questions from the Chamber, then I will put it on time so that it is not withdrawn from the Question Time that is held to the rapporteur. So it's like in football; if you do time extraction, we put some time in. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114170659	Thank you. The world is not just facing a climate crisis; we are also facing a biodiversity crisis. Less than a year ago, the UN organization Ipbes came up with a report that showed black in white that never before in human history have we wiped out the species of animals and plants of the planet as quickly as we are doing now. Up to a million species are threatened with extinction. It both threatens the basis of human life and does irreparable damage to animal and plant life, the value of which can never be made up of money. In many ways one can say that we live in a time when humanity is squandering as it pleases it, and is drifting over nature. 75% of all land ecosystems have been degraded by human activity. It is written in flames that the biodiversity crisis must be at the top of the political agenda. That is why I am also so happy that the Danish people are shouting Christiansborg with a citizens' Thanks to the more than 50,000 citizens who have signed, and a particularly great thank you to Christiane, Kristian, Anne-Sophie, Per, Ole, Diana, Erik, Jens, Walter, Karoline and Berit who have made this proposal. You're honoring Denmark. The Socialist People's Party supports the proposal to stop the sale of pesticides for use in private and public gardens. It's all missing. Because, although much needs to be done if we are to stop the biodiversity crisis, limiting the use of pesticides is an important element. There is a great impact on the ecosystem when using Roundup, also because it affects surrounding nature and wild plants, which the poison was not intended for, and therefore it has a long-term effect on, for example. the flowering. But limiting the use of pesticides is not just about standing up for the diversity of nature; it is also about protecting our drinking water. And I am appalled that one government after another has watched passively while our drinking water has been threatened. The United Nations Cancer Agency estimates that glyphate is likely to be carcinogenic, yet we allow people completely without knowledge of the substance or experience of using it to pat it out into their private gardens. This has to stop. Many waterworks have their boreholes located in urban areas, where pesticides and their degradation products have been found in many places. In 41%. of active drinking water wells, traces of pesticides or their degradation products were found in 2018 and the limit value was exceeded in more than every 10 cases. Glyfosate and ampa have been found in 333 ground water drillings, and in 98 drillings it exceeded the limit value. Nature, our health and our drinking water must be at the centre, and we have always meant this in the Socialist People's Party. In fact, our former environmental rapporteur, Steen Gade, sent me an old resolution he had tabled as rapporteur at the time. The proposal was for a Parliament resolution on stopping pesticide use in areas above groundwater resources, in all public areas and in private gardens. The proposal was submitted on 21 May 1996. I hope that the Folketing has the courage to make it a reality now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171036	Mrs Abildgaard has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171039	Thank you. And thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur refers directly to the WHO Cancer Agency and to the assessment that the substance is likely to be carcinogenic in the same category as coffee, so it would be interesting to know whether a proposal is also on the way to coffee. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur is aware that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has made a criticism of the fact that it was not considered that the study was carried out according to international guidelines, i.e. a criticism of the scientific evidence behind that study. It is therefore a criticism that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has directed at this WHO study. Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171124	Yes, I know about the criticism of this, and I do not think it is entirely black and white in relation to the assessment of whether this substance is carcinogenic. But I must also say that if we let the substance sink into our groundwater, we have a problem, and if we want to be comfortable drinking our groundwater, we forbid this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171143	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171145	But when you talk about the insecurity of the very few finds that have been made of this, in very, very small amounts, it is because you think that the substance is harmful. That is why I believe that the argument that it is carcinogenic or causes other diseases must be addressed. Since a large number of organisations have contradicted this report and have pointed out that there is weak scientific evidence, and have also pointed out that concentration is not taken into account but that the concentrated substance is being looked at, does it not make an impression? In other words, are there any other diseases which we fear can be caused by this and which give the insecurity that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171224	It always makes an impression in situations like this, and I kind of listen to both sides of this case. But I must also say that I am generally rather skeptical when people go out and say that spray poisons are not dangerous. In other words, it has been said about virtually all pesticides that have now been removed from the market, because it then turned out that they were still dangerous. So I think we should go for the precautionary principle in such a situation as this one, and I do not see why it should be so dangerous to stop using pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171250	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171253	Do we need to ban such a precautionary principle? I have tried to ask a few others about this, including the Minister, and now I can ask the SF's rapporteur. Can we not just say, as a state, that pesticides will not be used on government land? And if the proposal that lies here does not get the majority as it stands, will the SF make a proposal that says that the state should take the lead and from tomorrow or when it can be done as soon as possible • will no longer use pesticides on state land, for example on Banedanmark's land?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171329	We will do what we can to ensure a ban, and in fact I think that is the right way to go. I also think that, following this debate, it seems as if the government is in a position to negotiate an agreement which remains within the scope of EU law and which is roughly in line with what is contained in the citizens' proposal. So it is clear that we will continue to work from here, among other things. in terms of limiting the state's use of it, but I also think it is actually relevant to restrict private use, especially because they often do not quite know how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171357	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171358	From a low-practical approach, there may be EU legal considerations and there may be all sorts of other considerations that have also been brought into the debate here. But there is no consideration beyond what we decide ourselves in relation to the land of the state. And that is why I am just using Banedanmark as an example, because it is one of the companies that has quite a large area that the state owns and where pesticides are used today to fight weeds for all kinds of reasons, presumably also for safety reasons. So will the SF be involved in making a proposal or simply instruct the government to tell Banedanmark that from when it is now possible to do so, they must stop using pesticides on Banedanmark's lands as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171438	We would like to limit it as far as possible, even on Banedanmark's lands, yes, we would like to do so. It is, of course, important that this is done in a way that still has safety in mind. Because it's important that you have some rails that don't grow a lot of things that don't have to. However, we are, in general, ready to work against the use of glyphosat throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171456	No one else has signed up for Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin of the SF. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171508	Thank you for the floor. The use of pesticides does not belong in private gardens or in public areas. It's quite unnecessary. The toxins can affect groundwater, bees and biodiversity, and I think that is what I am calling for legislation and action now, therefore a great deal of thanks to the authors of the citizens' proposal for having the opportunity to stand here today and actually discuss it. We see a marked decline in the insect population in Denmark as well as globally. And this is, of course, primarily due to the disturbing reduction of habitats, but also in some places pollution from pesticides is also the case in Denmark. Agriculture, of course, accounts for the greatest consumption of pesticides and pesticides, but private consumption is also problematic. We use spray poisons too much to remove dandelions from the lawn, to keep our vegetable beds free of larvae or to remove moss and weeds from the driveway. But it is also used when municipalities want to keep the football field or the parking lot nice. I believe that the time has come to stop. Either we as citizens have to go down on all fours and remove that weed manually, or we have to let the garden stand up and let it grow and flourish. And it's actually really good for the diversity of our gardens. Fortunately, a number of municipalities have realised this. I recently heard about a municipality which actually offered citizens a sign that could be put out in its wild garden, saying: No, we are not getting divorced, we just have a wild garden. I think that was an excellent initiative. But diversity is challenged; it is actually serious enough. Stock levels of bees and other insects are falling, and this gives us a huge loss of natural wealth now, but also our descendants. Of course, we need to ensure habitats, but that does not mean that we should not also have to take action elsewhere. And new Danish research actually points out that even gentle use of pesticides has a significant impact on the flowering of plants even several metres from where they have been sprayed. So if my neighbor sprays his garden, it also has an impact on the biodiversity of my garden or on the carrots in my kitchen garden. And this is happening to the very highest degree because we, as private citizens, are not trained to use these pesticides. Both Austria and Germany have shown some political will and are ready to curb the use of pesticides. I think that's really good. I think we should also have the political courage in Denmark. And, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that we must speed up the implementation of such a ban, and I hope that this debate and this citizens' proposal will actually give rise to this. I would like to thank the citizens who have tabled the proposal; it is clearly politically moving. In fact, I think it is also moving something into the minds of the citizens, because there are no doubt many citizens who have also considered whether the use of pesticides themselves is really appropriate. There have been several references in this debate to the situation from Karise, where a waste station had to close, precisely because there were so many spray poisons gathered in the garden waste we cannot have that. That is why, of course, we in the Enhedslist support this citizens' proposal. Thanks to you who have put it, but also thanks to all the citizens who actually go ahead and keep their garden poison free, and to the municipalities who have also jumped on the cart.It is 13 in total, including Furesø, Rudersdal, Odense and Aalborg, who have gone ahead. This is very important because we need to reduce the use of pesticides as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171939	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten. No one has signed up to short remarks, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114171949	Thank you. I would also like to believe it or not to start by thanking those who have engaged in this matter and helped to ensure that we have this debate today. As one of the parties that helped to adopt the system of citizens' proposals, I am pleased to see every single time the system is used, whatever I agree with the concrete proposal or not. So thank you for your commitment to this issue, which has given rise to a very long debate so far in this Chamber. But I must also say that the Conservative People's Party cannot support this citizens' proposal. We're a green party, we're right into the heart, but we're also a factual party, and we think there are some things in this case where, unfortunately, the objectivity is not allowed to come forward and where it gets the character of green symbol politics. This proposal is about an immediate end to Roundup and other pesticides, and many people have been busy emphasising that it is not just Roundup, but it is everything else that has been used as an example in the media to set out its point of view, and that is why I am going to talk about it in my speech now. Glyfosat is perhaps one of the most studied pesticides that exists at all; more than 2,000 scientific studies have been made of it. So it is a very, very well-described spray that we are talking about. The way Glyphosate is dangerous to plants is inhibiting a certain enzyme, and we do not have that enzyme, and therefore it is not in the same way dangerous to us humans. It is biodegradable, it disappears by itself, it has a half-life of between 2 and 197 days, depending on the circumstances. What I am saying here is not my assessment; it is not something that I, as a politician, have just slammed myself into, no, it is based on those who advise us politicians on these matters; it is assessed by them. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency has stated directly to quote: The Danish Environmental Protection Agency considers that there is no health risk associated with the use of authorised glyphose agents. They also say that they do not believe there is any environmental or natural risk associated with the use of authorised glyphose agents. They say that to Detector, who has described this case very, very in-depthly, and to such an extent has also got some of these myths that are in this area on the wall. Pesticides are only approved after thorough examination of their effects on groundwater, etc. A large number of authorities have also examined glyphosate internationally. In addition to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, EPA, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ECHA, the European Chemicals Agency, FAO, the United Nations Agricultural Organisation, and the WHO pesticide group have all also examined this substance, and they have all consistently assessed that it is not carcinogenic. On the other hand, IARC, as the SF's rapporteur also said, has done so, but it is a study which has been heavily criticised for the scientific evidence and which has so much called into question the conclusions that are being drawn. Making a decision to ban glyphosat and all other pesticides immediately is a very, very big decision, and I really would have liked to have heard some suggestions today about the data base underlying this. What are these analyses that have been carried out in the Ministry and where the consequences of this have been fully analysed? To what extent, for example, do we risk the gas burner being used instead, and what will it be important? It is a very big decision to make without us knowing the consequences of it. We do not know what it will be replaced with. When you use pesticides today, you don't do it for fun. Well, it's not like you're just making it up that it's gonna be convenient, but it's because it serves a purpose, and what will it be substituted for if we go in and ban this? That is why we do not believe that a ban on use on private or public land is appropriate. Does that mean that I think you should just squirt? No, it certainly doesn't. I don't spray in my own garden, I couldn't dream of doing it, but it's my decision. We politicians should only ban things where there is professional evidence that it is dangerous, that it is harmful, that it poses a risk to the Community, and I do not think that evidence is present in what has been presented, and the large number of organisations I have listed do not believe that there is either. Furthermore, in the Conservative People's Party, we would much rather that if decisions are to be made on this matter, it is made municipal, that is to say, that the individual municipality can decide not to allow the use of glyphosate in private gardens; and then you can do so in the municipalities where it is believed that there are particular challenges in relation to groundwater. This is not something that needs to be regulated here from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172457	There are three who have signed up for short remarks. Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172504	Thank you for the floor. I am a little sorry that the Conservative People's Party is standing on this side of the matter in this debate. I would like to address some of what the rapporteur mentioned in his speech, namely a Detector interview where the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has been quoted for some things, and I would like to repeat that quote, but also with the last sentence. For it says: The Danish Environmental Protection Agency considers that there is no environmental and natural risk associated with the use of authorised glyphose agents if used according to the regulations. That is, of course, the problem in this situation, i.e. that we do not know whether private gardeners use the drugs according to the regulations. In fact, there are indications that they do not do so when there are too many findings of pesticides at different waste sites. For private people are not trained to handle these drugs, and that also means that it can go beyond your garden and my garden that our neighbor sprays because of course it moves across borders. So is it not the rapporteur's concern that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency says: when it is used according to the regulations, but that there is something that suggests that it does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172618	Of course, I am worried when things are not applied according to the rules, but the point on which that argument is put is, of course, very much the one waste dump where this conclusion has been drawn. I am familiar with the fact that no national reference has been made to whether this is a general problem, and we continue to refer to this one matter. But let us look at how we can better inform consumers. I think that's great. Let's definitely check it out. Do we need more information campaigns? Should there be more requirements for the product itself and what should be on the back of it? After all, we have already regulated the form in which it can be sold, i.e. mixed up and so on. So there are plenty of things we can go in to do. I just think that here we go from 0 to 100 in 10 seconds instead of looking at what are some steps along the way that we can take before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172707	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172709	As I know, we are currently in the process of mapping out how many of these pesticides are available in private waste sites, because it is precisely estimated that there can be a great deal. I'd like to ask you about a nuance. For the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party, there was a lot of support for the creation of these BNBO areas, which are areas where you cannot spray near drinking water wells. These are exactly the same substances that are banned. Why was there such a strong advocate at the time and is now so critical of the content of the substances and environmental assessments? Actually, I'm a little puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172758	The Conservative People's Party was also originally opposed to a general scheme in relation to BNBOs, because we would much rather target it where there was a need and where there was a problem to be solved. But all other things being equal, the concentration of what is sprayed into agriculture in BNBOs is somewhat greater than what is done in private gardens, where, as far as I remember, it is less than 1% that is used. So there is something in the size ratio that everything else is different, besides knowing that it is in borehole protection areas where there is a special consideration to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172829	Then Mrs Zenia Stampe can legitimately ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114172834	I think Mrs Mette Abildgaard is simply getting some things mixed up. For the whole discussion about the harmful effects of glyphose, or it could be other chemicals, is not what this is all about. It's about how we don't want chemistry in our groundwater. We have a policy of zero tolerance, that is, we do not want it to be there, whatever one or the other study says, because there is so much uncertainty in this area and we do not want to take that risk. That is why we have a policy of zero tolerance. That's what this is about. This is also the case when we can see that there is actually that I think there is quite a lot of scientific evidence for that. But what is my question when I listen to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, who keeps talking about these chemicals not being harmful to health, and it may well be that Mrs Mette Abildgaard is right about this, but this is about groundwater, which is the starting point for this debate, is whether Mrs Mette Abildgaard thinks that we should drop our zero tolerance policy and start allowing us to find these funds, for example. the active substance glyphosate, in our groundwater and sends it into the taps of the Danish homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173004	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173006	When we do not want chemistry in our drinking water, it is in my optics the chemistry that can be harmful to people. That is what we should not have in our drinking water, and when I talk about, for example, cancer risk, it is because that is the argument that has often been put forward as an argument for banning glyphate. Then it is precisely with reference to the risk of cancer that we have argued. So when I think that you have to look at the risk, the effect, of what is being used, it is because I think that is where it is relevant to measure. Then the rapporteur says that it is a considerable amount that is being used in private gardens. Well, it's less than 1%. of the total sales used in private gardens. I do not think there is any reason for this to be a significant part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173048	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173053	Is it my understanding, then, that Mrs Mette Abildgaard and the Conservative People's Party really only believe that we should regulate those chemicals which are demonstrably harmful to health or carcinogenic, that is to say that they are the only ones to which we should put up a safeguard in relation to our groundwater? At least that's how I heard it. Mrs Abildgaard said that it was in particular the hazardous chemicals that we should protect ourselves from. Should I then understand this with regard to the chemicals that we do not want in our groundwater today and which we have a policy of zero tolerance that we can actually raise the limit values and drop the zero tolerance policy for those chemicals which cannot be detected as a result of damage to health?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173134	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173136	I do not understand this eternal reference to zero tolerance, because today we are approving a large number of pesticides in which there are certainly all kinds of chemical residues, but we are setting a limit on what will be acceptable, and we have done so in relation to glyphate, that is, set a limit value. If the rapporteur is startled about chemistry, I hope the rapporteur never uses antibiotics or anything else and takes it into his body, because it is bound up with chemistry.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173201	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173212	Thank you. Look, I had my childhood on a farm in the country where my dad sprayed Roundup. He said it's so harmless that you can drink it. I can clearly remember the smell of Roundup that was, and I just think that we have come so much further with the knowledge we have now that I am very surprised at what Mrs Abildgaard says about how harmless it is. But my question is about the cities. After all, there are many areas on the outskirts of the cities where residues of glyphosat can be traced, which have just been sprayed into the gardens. No matter how small a percentage of the amount used, it is residues that are in the soil and that are also in areas where drinking water is to be extracted.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173302	Well, I wouldn't recommend anyone to drink glyphosat, just like I wouldn't recommend anyone to drink gasoline. After all, there is a difference between a substance in a concentrated quantity and the quantities we allow when we use it at home and the limits we have set, for example when we measure in our drinking water. Of course, there is a difference, so it doesn't make any sense to talk about wanting to drink glyphosat. Tar is extremely dangerous if you get it into your body, but if tar comes down in asphalt and is bound there, it does not pose a health risk. We need to look at the substances in the context they are being used. When I argue that there is no health risk associated with the amount or concentration that we find glyphosat residues in Denmark, it is based on the figures that come from GEUS that do groundwater monitoring, and it is based on the assessment that is from the Danish EPA, and I have read several quotes where it is estimated that it does not pose a risk to health, groundwater, nature, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173403	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173405	Yeah, that's just a comment. I have little grandchildren and I think that when I give them a glass of water, I will be very sorry if there are pesticide residues in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173417	I am not afraid to give my daughter a glass of water if there is a microscopic content of a substance which several studies have proven does not pose a health risk. Then I'm not worried about it. In fact, I think that we, as politicians, have a responsibility in terms of whether we are talking up or down in the population, because I understand that some people are getting worried when they are following this debate. But there is just no scientific evidence that they should have that concern, and there I think we have a responsibility as politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173447	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173451	Thank you. That concern for toxins is there among the population, and I would just like to point out that we have this citizens' proposal, where the starting point is that we want a total ban on weeds and insecticides and other pesticides that are harmful or only potentially harmful to groundwater, biodiversity or health. In other words, it is a broad agenda on which the citizens' proposal is based. Now we have a certain focus on drinking water. We have a lot of local water plants, which are located in smaller towns. So they are in there, where people have their private gardens, and where the municipality has areas that they may be spraying. Now the rapporteur mentioned this point with half-lives for various pesticides. It is typically estimated that pesticides are used outside on agricultural land with a certain organic activity in the upper soil layers. So here we're dealing with a lot of fortified areas where there's sand downstairs, and where these toxins can kind of just sink down. That's why we find them in these ground water wells out locally. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a legitimate concern behind this citizens' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173602	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173603	I recognise that any concern there is is justified, because I do not think anyone is going around worrying about fun. I believe that all the citizens who have signed this are genuinely concerned about this. Of course, we have a responsibility as politicians to take that concern seriously. But the responsibility is not always to talk up the worry and confirm that there is a whole lot to be worried about if we do not have scientific evidence to say that there is a whole lot to be worried about. Sometimes our responsibility as politicians is to say: well, listen, this is very, very carefully examined, that is very much I think that is also sometimes the responsible way to deal with it. However, I would very much like to discuss how we can reduce the use of pesticides in general. I don't want people just to spray away. That is why we are also included in all pesticide agreements and we are helping to set targets and everything else. We are participating constructively in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173710	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173712	I'm wondering about that very big commitment to defending pesticides. Frankly, I am surprised, especially when we have received the latest reports on the studies that have been carried out on our drinking water. There is an increasing number of samples in which pesticide residues are present. When you start investigating for more drugs, that is to say, we have a problem that is far greater than we know about. Can the rapporteur not see that, with the figures we have in recent years, there is indeed cause for concern on the basis of the concrete measurements of our drinking water that have been produced?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173746	Again, I would like to refer to the quotations I have read from some of those responsible for groundwater monitoring who say very clearly that there is no cause for concern in the light of the findings they have made. That's their assessment. I am confident that, as experts in this, they will make an assessment rather than that we, as politicians, with each of our different backgrounds, should make that assessment. I have that confidence in those who are employed to make that kind of assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173811	Thank you, and Mrs Mette Gjerskov has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173815	Thank you. I actually asked for the floor at a time when the rapporteur replied, I think it was the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this proposal was like going from 0 to 100 in 10 seconds. I was just trying to check how fast my little electric car can accelerate, and it's in that order of magnitude, and I think it's moving something when I press the accelerator. But how can this be something that goes very quickly when it is only about public and private land? This is all about places where you don't have to use spray poison. That's the whole basis of this proposal. That is the whole basis for what the Minister has promised to offer. Then I can't believe that's how it's supposed to be compared to that acceleration. I can feel that I don't think it's something that's going really fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114173919	I must regret and admit that I am not car knowledgeable enough to know whether an acceleration time like the one I mentioned is really particularly fast or not. Today we are discussing this citizen's proposal, but we are also discussing a resolution on a ban on glyphate on agricultural land. When I talk about this, I'm gonna let myself be influenced by the fact that we're going to have that debate later today. However, I think there is a difference between the fact that we in Parliament, for example, have discussed specific substances, such as glyphosat, and that we are now talking about glyphosat and all other pesticides, which represent what is called a potential risk, without me really understanding who should define this potential risk. Are we politicians going to do it again, and then we're going to cut off all those who normally advise on this? I think it is a very big step to take. It may well be that for Mrs Mette Gjerskov it is not particularly significant that it concerns private gardens, but there, as a citizen, I have a slightly different approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174017	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174019	Hey, I think the rapporteur came to ask me questions, but I can answer. Yes, I also think it is important that it concerns private gardens. Of course, this isn't a joke. That is because we believe that we must intervene where the use of pesticides is least necessary. That's what this is all about. I think the rapporteur is mixing things up a little. We will talk about agriculture later, and that is a completely different matter. What is at stake here is: should we not take and try to reduce the use of spray as much as possible where it is not absolutely necessary to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174104	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174106	Yes, we must try to reduce it as much as possible, but that is not the same as making a ban. It is not the same as totally removing the possibility of using it for those citizens who see it as a tool. I also mentioned in my speech that we would much rather make this a local decision. Our National Council adopted a recommendation which supported the possibility of a municipal ban on use in private gardens. It was to be a municipal decision where you experienced problems with finds in drinking water wells. This is something that needs to be discussed locally rather than deciding from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174142	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174154	Thank you for the floor. It is good that we now have a citizens' proposal again. We in the Alternative are particularly pleased about this, especially when it is as important as it is here. I think that will always be a citizen's proposal. When 53,431 has signed this citizen's proposal, it's because it's important. The proposal is to ban immediately the sale of Roundup and other pesticides for use in our private gardens and public areas. This is because we know that it goes into groundwater. We know that it is harmful to biodiversity. It is a toxic substance that is harmful to animals, humans and plants, and it may also have an impact on our health in the long term. So we need to use the precautionary principle to ensure that even more pesticide residues are not found in years' time, so it will be impossible to drink our groundwater. In addition to the things that have been mentioned earlier on biodiversity, groundwater and health, I also think that it is very important for us as people to reconnect with nature. Instead of fighting nature in our gardens, we should think about changing our gardens, which has also been mentioned in the past. There is also the organization called Wild Vilje, which looks positively at nature and builds on nature's premises. In relation to the municipalities, there are many municipalities that have already banned the pesticide glyfosate, and there are also municipalities that have found new methods, new roads, and among other things. sprays with hot water and is very successful with it. It turns out that over the years it actually works better and better. In relation to the large weeds that we may not be able to cope with in this way, there are also attempts to graze goats and sheep in the areas that are possible to fence. So we can also try to see what we have of experience back in time and whether there are any of them we can use forward-looking. Of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174413	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174433	Thank you for the floor. Today we have to consider two proposals to ban weeds and insecticides and other pesticides, and both proposals will have significant consequences for private citizens and public institutions, and not least for Danish agriculture; we will come back to that. There are therefore good reasons why we politicians in parliament think very well today and do not allow emotions to replace scientific evidence and the environmental and social consequences of the proposals. The citizens' proposal B 54 is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a total ban on weeds and insecticides and other pesticides in private gardens and on public areas. In New Citizens, we are also concerned about ensuring healthy drinking water and a balanced ecosystem with healthy biodiversity, but we believe that politics must always be based on scientific facts and common sense. And what are the scientific facts and common sense in relation to a ban on glyphate and the other means of control for private use and in public common areas? Glyfosate works by inhibiting an enzyme found in plants and strengthening the plant's growth. The enzyme does not exist in animals or in humans. And in the soil, glyphobes are quickly converted into ordinary drugs. The European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, concludes that glyfosate is neither harmful to animals nor to humans. As a single example, I can refer to Anton Smith, who is a PhD in chemistry from Aarhus University. He has stated that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency states that there is no environmental or natural risk associated with the use of authorised glyphose agents when used in accordance with the requirements. A ban on glyphate will all the other things equal lead to increased consumption of alternative herbicides, but the environmental and climate effects of alternative means such as water vapor, thermal burning, infrared radiation, formic acid and much more are not sufficiently effective and/or profitable. Here I can, among other things. refer to a reply to the Danish Parliament from Banedanmark. A similar experience has been found in municipalities which have tried to phase out glyphosate with e.g. gas burners, and gas burners are all else equally significantly more polluting and far too inefficient. So the conclusion is clear. Solid data collected over many decades point in the same direction: Roundup and glyphosate do not pose a health risk, neither for animals nor for humans. In addition, alternative means are much less effective and they pollute more than glyphates. Nevertheless, the proposers will introduce a total ban on pesticides, a proposal that goes against what scientific facts tell us politicians. The active substance in Roundup and Glyphosate is effective and climate-friendly and neither animals nor humans are at risk. So how one of the mildest pesticides in the world has ended up being one of the most hated is a mystery to me. It is certainly not an hatred supported by science or common sense. The citizens' proposal can therefore only be seen as an emotional concern. It is fair to go around worrying, but right in this matter of the well-being of people and biodiversity, we can safely and in accordance with the regulations apply, for example. glyphosate as a herbicide in private gardens and on public areas. That is why we in the New Citizen cannot support the adoption of Citizen's Amendment No. B 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174805	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114174813	Motion for a resolution B 54 deals primarily with the private use of herbicides based on glyphate and the use of pesticides based on, among other things, the use of pesticides. neonicotinoids. The best analysis of private individuals' weed control, which I have read to date, was in Weekendavisen on 31 May 2002, and it was written by the journalist and leisure farmer Arne Hardis, and now I quote from the article that I just mentioned: "In other areas of life we may use modern inventions to facilitate life, as long as we control ourselves. ▪ Then the article continues a little further forward: • We can drive a little car, we can read electric lamps on the vigil, we have to fly a little bit out into the world. Basically, it is about giving priority to our time and effort. But when it comes to spray poison, the ban is absolutely absolute. ▪ According to Arne Hardis, it is about two things: the sanctification of nature and the relationship of modern people to work. We must not desecrate nature by using pesticides, because then we are not just showing that we are stepping on the sacred; we are also exhibiting that we have a weak and lax work ethic. Therefore, weeds, if private, must be combated by hand; otherwise, with Hardi's expression, and I quote "a lazy pig." We cannot vote in favour of this proposal because what I have just examined is symbolic policy, which stems from a moral and not a professional position, and because what I have also examined is out of proportion. Furthermore, the proposal is limited in such a way that there is no doubt about it, and it actually deals with Arne Hardis in its article that it would trigger a black market for weeds and insect control, because that will, of course, happen if we impose a narrow, limited ban on something that is allowed in many other contexts. So there are three things in all, and one might almost call that a political Kindergæg who actually speaks against this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175058	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175124	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175141	Thank you. I would like to start by emphasising that the government agrees that we must reduce the use of pesticides and ensure better protection of drinking water. We have also written this in our understanding paper together with among others. the authors of the proposals. In the broad pesticide agreement circle, we have already achieved several tightenings at the latest by concluding the agreement on banning spraying in borehole protection areas, the so-called BNBOs. Later this year we will also be meeting in the circle of agreement and discussing the possible adjustment of pesticide load targets and the pesticide tax. However, I would also like to say that initiatives must take place within the rules of the European Union. The proposal envisages a total ban on the use of glyphate in agriculture based on the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle is a fundamental principle of Danish environmental policy, but there is no new knowledge of an unacceptable risk that cannot be dealt with within the current approval. I have asked the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to review the documentation mentioned in the motion for a resolution to determine whether this is new knowledge. In relation to the risk to bees, the most recent EU assessment showed that the use of glyfosate is safe against honey bees, and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency considered that the studies mentioned in the resolution would not be a sufficient basis to base a national ban on. However, it is possible that in particular the study of glypho rate effects on intestinal flora of bees may influence the overall assessment of the substance when compared with the other evidence relating to glyphosate. The Danish EPA will therefore send the study to the countries responsible for the re-evaluation of glyfosate. At the same time, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency will send the article to EFSA and invite it to clarify in the ongoing review of EU guidance on bee risk assessment whether this type of derived effects should be included in the risk assessment for bees in the future. Because they don't do that today. In relation to the risk of leaching to groundwater, the Danish EPA states that there is no new information indicating that there should be an unacceptable risk of contamination of groundwater with glyphate or the degradation product AMPA in concentrations above the requirement value of 0.1 micrograms per day. The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. Glyfosat, as we have also just debated, is a much-examined substance in the early warning system, which deals with agricultural land and is therefore also an early warning system in relation to the leaching of pesticides into groundwater and which is also part of groundwater monitoring. Based on the results, the Danish EPA concludes that neither glyfosate nor AMPA poses a risk to groundwater. In relation to the importance for human health, it is true that in the past health effects have been shown by glyphosate agents, which can be attributed to the use of co-formulants in pesticides. In 2016, the Danish EPA has already banned a number of glyphosate agents containing a specific excipient that was linked to the suspicion that glyphosate agents could harm the genetic systems. The Danish EPA estimates that the studies submitted do not contribute with new knowledge, and this applies both to the toxicity of the products and to endocrine disrupting effects. As the proposers write, other countries have withdrawn future national bans on glyphosat, but it is the Ministry's opinion that banning glyphosat on the basis of the existing knowledge base would be contrary to EU rules in this area. Among other things: Following significant pressure on the previous government, a re-evaluation of glyphose has been brought forward by 5 years and will therefore be completed in 2022. I can guarantee that the government will look very carefully at any new studies that show a risk to our environment or health, and that we will also not hesitate to act if new studies show a risk in the use of glyphose. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution on a total ban in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175540	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175545	Thank you. Now that the government is going to look at new research, I would like to say that there is Danish research which has examined the effect of glyphosate spraying on agricultural fields quite apart from the nature that lies from 0 to 10 m from the fields. And we have come to the conclusion that in this way it has a very negative effect on the flora that is there, on the ability of plants to bloom, and that they bloom later, and this, of course, has an effect on the possibility that there may be insects on those areas. So I would really like to hear the Minister's reflection on it. Since we have Danish research, which so unequivocally says that glyphosat has a negative influence on our nature, does the Minister not think it is quite natural that a ban should be imposed on spraying altogether, and that instead a distance of 10 m should be kept between us since Danish research shows that there are these negative effects on our flora?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175650	Thank you for the question. I have just taken a look at this, because the rapporteur has also asked some questions about today's debate and has among other things. I would like to ask a general question about this very latest research report. And I am very much in favour of the research reports that we will have, of course, dive into them and look at: Has there been new knowledge that we need to act on? In general terms, I would say that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency informs us that as part of the ongoing reviews of all glyphose agents, requirements for spray-free buffer zones of between 5 and 20 m are already laid down for protected natural areas. So that confirms the report is necessary, and that is also what is being dealt with there. However, if there are further questions in relation to specific research, I would, of course, be happy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175734	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175735	Thank you. It is exciting how it is carried on, because this research from Denmark is something that will probably also affect EFSA's assessments of pesticides. Then I found it interesting that the Minister mentioned that the knowledge about glyphotic effects on bees' intestinal flora could be something that was taken further. And that is our starting point for this motion for a resolution. After all, it is not that discussion between different bodies that relates to the risk of cancer for people that is based on biodiversity. So that is the German starting point we have taken here. What will the Minister say about Germany and Austria banning glyphosate from the end of 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175818	But I am quite curious about that, that is, the reason why Austria and Germany have resigned, as they have done. No one of the countries has imposed a ban, and that is what we are doing, among other things. that we have common EU rules and that the assessment there will probably also be that it is contrary to the EU's common rules to make that ban now. But then it is true that there may be some political declarations of intent in relation to what should then be done in the future. And there the Ministry has asked the German authorities what is the basis for that decision and whether there is any new knowledge to be taken into account, but we have not received any information about it yet, which means that it can be said that it changes the basis and we have not heard what is the basis for it either. So I think we should have bored out, but we do not have that basis today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175904	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for the Environment. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114175912	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. No one should be in any doubt that the Social Democratic Party would like to reduce the use of pesticides in Denmark. The Conservative rapporteur spoke of moving from 0 to 100 in 10 seconds. This is going from 0 to 100 in two seconds, I think, if that's possible. This is a very, very intrusive proposal. The Minister has explained the EU's relevance to it. It may be a bit bold to say, but at least I and the Social Democrats have no intention of closing down Danish agriculture. It is quite important that we also look at the consequences of such a proposal. In the previous citizens' proposal, we talked about those areas where it was not necessary. In many places, at least the current production method is such that in agriculture roundup, glyphosat, is seen as necessary. I think it is important that we also say things straight. If we are to limit our amount of pesticide poisoning, let us now limit it where it is least necessary, and it may be in gardens and public areas, but I do not believe that this is the case with agriculture. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180121	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180125	Now the rapporteur mentioned that the Social Democrats would like to reduce the amount of pesticides and that, in this way, it is also part of the government's understanding paper. That is quite correct. And if you look at what has been done by tightening up around limiting the use of Roundup, it is not long ago that a ban was imposed on using Roundup for showdown on bread wheat areas. There was thus a process in which the breweries themselves tightened up because they were worried about whether people would stop drinking their beer. Then there were some who would like to contract that you shouldn't wear down barleymalt fields. I would really like to hear something from the rapporteur, since this could be the way to go, without being in total conflict with the European Union: will the rapporteur agree that we are looking at tightening up so that the dismantling of cereal fields will be banned in Denmark so that the fodder crops we have for our livestock will not be subjected to a trip with the syringe just before harvest?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180228	That's not what this proposal is about, so I just need to understand on the Enhedslisten... so we're going a little faster or what? At any rate, I was really pleased that we had the agreement on the ban, because the thing about using Roundup on land where you have to go out and harvest the crops for human consumption, that is to say for people who have to eat them, is a very, very unfortunate practice. It's stopped now, too. I think that is very positive. Can you find other places where we can limit the use of spray poison? Yeah, well, maybe you can talk to him. However, the proposal we have before us here is to use pesticides with the active substance glyphate on all agricultural land.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180338	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180340	Well, I'm just trying to meet the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that the Social Democratic Party would like to reduce the amount of pesticides, and since I could see that there were perhaps 11⁄2 million of them here anyway. ha, which one could get not to be sprayed right up to harvest, then it was a step forward. It is only natural that when we come up with a concrete proposal and when the rapporteur does not want to confront the European Union completely, it might be that we could come up with a compromise that we could make together with the Social Democrat Party. So we're ready for that, if that's what we can get. We are happy to take three steps in the right direction instead of ten.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180414	I always care about an outstretched hand, so thank you for it. And I actually think that over time we're gonna be looking at this area again. I can't imagine anything else. We're gonna have these discussions again. We'll get them back when the bill on public and private land comes from the government. It is about going for those areas where it is least necessary to use spray poison. That's where we want to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180449	Thank you. And then, sir... Carl Valentin asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180453	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of the closure of Danish agriculture and then himself pointed out that it was a little bold. I would like to say that too; that is indeed a bold thing to say. Does the rapporteur think that, for example, if the European governments in 2022, for example, are in a position to do so? Is it decided that you no longer need Roundup, will it mean that Danish agriculture will close down?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180514	What lies in the comments on this proposal is about the German Minister for the Environment, who has had an announcement. After all, we always follow EU rules. As good social democrats, we comply with the agreements we make with the others in the European Union. But it is clear that there has to be some way in which Danish agriculture can produce, and I think it would require a considerable change, but it is just an assessment. As I said, it may also be a little bold, but I think this is something that is of great importance to Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180609	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180611	I agree that this is something that will be of great importance, but I think there is a long way to go from saying that something is of great importance to talking about Danish agriculture closing down. You can ensure that you can do without Roundup, for example. by good crop rotation or by mechanical methods or perhaps by organic farming. I think there are many ways to go, and I think it is a pity that we are talking about this here, as if it were a bad business policy, because I think it is actually good business policy to warn agriculture that it may be that in future we no longer have to use glyphate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180642	I would say that I would say that agriculture was very tone-deaf if they could not listen to the government, that this is an area we are focusing on. I do not think that Danish agriculture is so tone-deaf either. But when it comes to the means we can use, the rapporteur himself mentions ecology. As Minister for Food, I have also done everything I could to boost ecology by making ecology in public kitchens, so that we could have...
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180726	Thank you. And there are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114180737	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for putting forward the proposal on glyphate and its use on commercial land, agricultural land. I am not quite sure about that, but I think it is important, as we also had the discussion about the previous proposal, that we are looking again at what recommendations our board of directors, our experts, etc., usually advises us on these matters, in relation to public health and in relation to the environment in general. Neither, as the Minister said in his reply, nor any of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, nor the EU Chemicals Agency, considers glyphosate to be harmful to health. There are professors and others who speak out, and among other things. Nina Cedergreen of the University of Copenhagen says at the quote: "Glyphosat meets all the safety requirements normally used to assess whether a substance may be placed on the market in the EU. Nor can it be to spare the environment that such a ban is to be imposed in relation to Danish agriculture. I think it's important, when you look at these things, that you also look at the whole context. Of course, you can look at it in isolation and say that if you just take out this element, it might be better. But there are also alternatives if you are going to have a food production of a certain size. Of course, you can say that it needs to be reduced, but that will only push the area you need to feed the world's mouths. And it can be said that in Danish Agriculture we have at least developed in recent years, also significantly, among other things. using less soil treatment, i.e. less hardening and less ploughing, which is also part of the whole climate discussion, and also leaching of nitrogen etc. can be seen as an effort that goes in that direction. If you can't use glyphosat to fight the fields, you'll see that you can't have this non-plowing or soil treatment-free production anymore. This would mean going out and plowing the fields with the resulting effects elsewhere on our environmental accounts. This could also mean that part of the food production we have in Denmark would have to be moved to other countries • Spain, Poland, Romania, or what do I know where you do not have a given ban, and then, overall, the environment has not got any better. That is why I am also based on the whole, and there are also experts and researchers who, in terms of biodiversity, point to the fact that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned it in a question earlier, and he may also ask me about it; I do not know that driving with the weed harrow or striggle or the ploughing machine actually has a negative impact on biodiversity, which can be greater than if you have controlled machines and monitoring etc., as you have • used glyphosat in the way you do, i.e. how the alternative was that you should mess up more in the ground. So it is just to say that I think it is essential when we have a discussion about a specific remedy and a specific tool in the toolbox for agriculture that you see it as a whole, that is to say what it is for an overall environmental account, and what it is for an overall health risk, if there is one, and there is then not when you listen to experts and the Environmental Protection Agency, which is the basis for a given ban that you should put into effect. As we have already mentioned, we have already done something about the use and use of glyphate in agriculture. Among other things: When my current president was Minister for the Environment and Food I was supposed to say it in the right order, because that is how he used it. You just went in and banned the use of glyphosat, which we among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Gjerskov on her excellent report. We've also been looking at the BNBO areas, i.e. these drilling areas where you've also been inside and you've made some additional restrictions. It is just to say there too that our approach to these things is that we have to make the efforts where we can also see that the effect is present, on a professional and factual basis, and we do not think that is the case if what Enhedslisten is proposing here, with a total ban, is implemented. That must be my approach to saying that we in the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181231	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181235	It is good to listen to experts, and I have not yet heard any experts who have been able to explain to us very well what the causes of the continued decline in biodiversity in Denmark are and to what extent pesticides are causing this decline. Looking at our proposal here, it has been based on Germany and the precautionary principle used by Germany, which is not, of course, a question of various experts warring about whether glyphate is carcinogenic, but on the fact that it is based on biodiversity and says: we have a catastrophic decline in the number of insects, it has immense consequences, and that is why we have to start doing something and ban pesticides. It has been decided to ban glyphosat. Can the rapporteur not see that we have a problem with taking proper care of nature with the agricultural distribution that we have in Denmark, with such a large area as agriculture constitutes, and that we need to go further in reducing the negative environmental impact that comes from agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181340	When the Enhedslisten's rapporteur refers here to Germany, according to the information that has been provided to me, no ban has been imposed, but some kind of declaration of intent has been made that when the EU's side, in 2022, has to reconsider the authorisation of the substance, it will look at the possibility of imposing restrictions as well. It was just to bring it with us. Yes, of course we must always be open to look at the environment and I also know that we are from the industry how we can reduce the environmental impact, but I also have to say that we have to look at it in its entirety and in its context and not only in isolation by looking at a single area and using a single tool. That is what I tried to describe before, namely that if you do not have the opportunity to use the substance in question for, for example, weed control, as it is typically used for, then it has some alternative consequences, by treating the soil further, in relation to what else you do, and it has some negative effects, both in terms of biodiversity, in terms of nitrogen leaching and, indeed, in terms of CO2, it is just to say that we see things in their full context. I also have to say that with the technology that is now being used, with GPS and other things, this is another way of using it today than 10-15 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181450	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181452	Yes, there is still a need for progress, and all farmers have the possibility of converting to ecology, and it is a good thing that it is on the basis of the new government that we have to double the ecological area. So there's kind of a choice you can make. I think it will be interesting to follow Germany and Austria. Austria has then chosen the wrong procedure in the past, so they have problems with the European Union at the moment, so I understand that a ban has not been chosen in Germany, because you first have to go to the European Union and say what you want to do before you decide to do so. And that is where it will be exciting to follow this for the next year and a half, when we in the Committee on European Affairs will also be taking a position on how we are dealing with the future of glyphate in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181530	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181531	Well, of course we will have to deal with that, because if there is new knowledge and new opportunities, then of course we have to deal with it. With regard to the proposal put forward here, I am addressing it on the basis of the knowledge and the known information and recommendations we receive, in terms of what is appropriate in terms of health and in terms of nature and the environment, and there are no recommendations that say that the way in which the substance is treated and used today should be a problem. It's like the starting point I have. And when you look at it in a larger context, you can see that it would be a huge loss for Danish agriculture • I think it is estimated at 1 billion. kr., and thus it is also a community staff. That billion dollars could be used to do something good for our environment. That is also the approach I have to it by looking at it in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181620	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181626	Thank you. Then we are here with B 33, and this is a proposal to ban the use of pesticides with the active substance glyphate on agricultural land. It is not a proposal that we can support in the Danish People's Party, and I would like to express why we cannot. We therefore agree with the debate we have had on the previous proposal that we should use them as little as possible in relation to pesticides, that is to say reduce the amount. We are in agreement with that. But a ban certainly poses some other challenges. We see a great many farmers who are currently changing to, among others. Something like plough-free operation. It has to be said that this is very good for the climate. We could have had such a debate here, where we had talked about climate. We would then have stood and said that we should move to plough-free operation, because then we should not drive so much over the land, and that is good for the climate, but when you do not work the soil, you are actually using glyphate in the way you work. That is why we do not think that such a proposal can stand alone without, as it were, actively going in and saying what the consequences of it are. Then I think that the authors of the motion will say in a moment that there is agriculture today where it is not used. That is true; there are among others. organic farming, but we also know that we have this challenge in relation to climate, because of course you have to drive more with your machines and have mechanical processing of agricultural land. As a representative of the governing party, Mrs Gjerskov asked if this could be looked at in the future with downgrading. It is true that there is a ban on doing so today when it comes to food for human beings, and that is not what goes to animal feed in relation to crops. In fact, I think we should find out what the consequences are if we ban them. I do not know the consequences, but I absolutely believe that, when high-quality foods can be produced without fading down, we must also be able to grow high-quality animal feed without fading down. It is certainly not something that I am going to stand here today and say yes to, but I think it is worth a discussion to find out what it will cost, what the extra costs are, and whether you risk having to use more glyphose because you have not taken, what to say, what will come after, at the beginning, where you have the crop standing, etc. So I would like to say that the proposal here says no, but I would like to say again, as compared with the previous citizens' proposal, that we actually have a intention that we should use less active substance in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181918	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114181921	It is always nice when a debate can lead to something moving in the right direction. So thank you for that response to the proposal here and the consideration of whether there are more cereal crops where we could avoid using glyphate for descent. We must be able to investigate this, because we must have some experience of the bread wheat and malt barley, which we are very much not spraying. So I think that is positive. I also find it exciting when there are farmers who are trying to change traditional farming by crop-free cultivation and who are trying to gain some experience with it. What I have heard is that some of them have come to the conclusion that you can reduce even more on the pesticides you use together, because you work with a healthy soil, which, as such, is better, so that you can have better operation and can turn down a lot of the pesticides you use. Thank you for the response to further investigate about the consequences of a further set-aside of cereal crops in Denmark. We look forward to that and we will put the question to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182028	I can just sign off on behalf of the Danish People's Party and say that this is what we can work on in order to find out whether this proposal should also be dealt with differently. Of course, some committee questions can also be raised in relation to this. So we look forward to that, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182044	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next one on the platform is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182059	Thank you. This is a completely different discussion from the previous one, but then there are some overlaps. Unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal and it is primarily because we will not be able to impose such a ban on Danish agriculture because it is a substance approved in the European Union, but also, of course, because it would be a huge upheaval. And there are a lot of dilemmas... let me be the first to admit it... when we speak glyphosat and roundup in agriculture, because there is no doubt that it is a means that has a lot of benefits, both climate benefits and, of course, in terms of yield, but there are also risks. I do not think so much of this whole debate on cancer, because it is true that there is a great deal of uncertainty here; the WHO says something while our own authorities and the EU authorities say something else, and there I think it might be possible to conclude that yes, it is carcinogenic in very large quantities or concentrations, but that is not what is at issue here. What we know, on the other hand, and I think we can say there is scientific evidence to say, is that it is harmful to biodiversity, because we know from the recent study that glyphosat spreads not only to the field in which it has been used, but also to the surrounding areas, and that it means that the plants put fewer flowers and fewer seeds, and it also has an effect on the food of insects and then again on the birds' food, because they eat insects. In this way, everything is often connected in very large systems, which is why it is always quite difficult when we discuss these substances. But for this reason we will not be involved in an immediate ban, partly because of the EU argument, partly because it will mean a total change in Danish agriculture. Having said that, we would also like to be involved in working towards the fact that it is not necessary to use Roundup in the long term, or at least to reduce the use of Roundup and glyphate significantly. I have to say that I myself was very, very happy when I read the Agricultural Newspaper, as I think it was, a few months ago, when it said that now you had to control the use of Roundup, because the use has gone up again. It said, and I'm referring to it, we'd better get this thing under control before Zenia Stampe and the others come and forbid it. I really like that, i.e. that the discussion we have here and the spotlight we put on glyphosat, which is a very dilemmaous area, make our agriculture think of an extra time they use too much? There are many advisors in agriculture who say that the use of glyphate can be significantly reduced without having very significant consequences. And perhaps there is some thought, perhaps also in the long term some regulation that we can take on, which will not be contrary to EU law and which we may even be able to implement without having very serious negative consequences for agriculture. But there is no doubt that we are taking this discussion very seriously. After all, there is quite a large part of our insect loss that cannot really be explained, nor can it only be explained by lack of space. That is, of course, the main argument when we talk about the loss of biodiversity, that is, the lack of space where nature can unfold, without us humans interfering, but there is also evidence that some of the chemicals we use also have an impact, even if it cannot necessarily be measured as poison. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Knowing that neonicotinoids have negative effects on bees, it is not as poison, but then it is because it enters and affects their intestinal flora, as far as I remember, and affects their navigational ability etc. Similarly, there are also some indications that glyphosate may also have an effect on the bacteria that the bees carry and that it can therefore also have some negative consequences. All of this is still very controversial in research circles, and of course policy cannot be based on it, but of course it is something that needs to be followed very carefully when we know that we are facing a very serious biodiversity crisis. However, we are not prepared for a ban right now, but are prepared to do all we can within the framework of Danish legislation to limit the use of glyphosat, and we are, especially because we can listen to several of the representatives of agriculture, that it is actually possible to reduce significantly without having very negative consequences for Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182556	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182600	Nor did I expect the Radicals to take such a total conflict with the European Union, but with the approach of whether there is anything we can do without it being totally in conflict with the European Union, I think it is exciting with the Danish research that has come last year, about how the fauna suffers up to 10 metres from a glyphosate-sprayed field, as well as to feel a field that has been sprayed quite normally, and that it is thus significant how much worse the wild flowers there are in terms of flowering, seeding, etc. As the rapporteur said, this has consequences for what is of weed seeds for our birds, etc. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur can see any possibility of us continuing to work on these spray-free zones at the edge of the farmers' fields, because it is actually a little grotesque that we have to spray all the way out, although this research knows very well that it has a negative effect up to 10 metres away. And it is in natural areas that it has been investigated. This would mean that if people's gardens have been sprayed, there is the same pollution. Does the rapporteur see that this is something that we must continue to work on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182706	We would very much like to continue working on this. I myself would also like to look at the regulation of the permitted standards for the use of glyphosate. When we hear the agricultural advisors themselves say that this can be significantly reduced without having very serious negative consequences, I think it is worth listening to. And then there is the whole discussion about the use of glyphates for banishment and obsolescence, which we have limited in relation to the grain we eat as human beings, but we have not, of course, made the same restriction in relation to animal feed. I think that is also an important discussion. So we are certainly prepared to look at all the options that may be available, but the great ban that is contrary to the European Union is not ready to introduce, but we are prepared to do a great deal more, especially because we can listen to some people from agriculture, that this can be done without a death sentence on agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182806	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182808	That's good to hear. Then we can practice making that reduction until we can possibly go along with Germany and Austria along this path of ban. So, in other words, reduced dosages, more bans and bans on obsolescence of cereals could be elements that need to be worked on and clarified in committee. Should I understand the rapporteur's view that the possibilities for reduction that can be implemented legally without us being at total war with the European Union are what we need to pursue?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182840	Absolutely. I can only reply in the affirmative to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182845	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We move on from Radical to Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114182854	Thank you. Denmark is one of the world's most highly cultivated countries. 60% of our area consists of agriculture, and 80%. it consists of the production of feed for animals. The fact that we have cleared so much nature and allowed a situation where fewer than 35,000 landowners sit on almost two thirds of our land is deeply problematic both for nature, which must give way to the many fields required to feed our farm animals, and especially for the climate that needs more forest that can absorb CO2 Changing basically the way we have arranged our country is therefore a bottom-up task. But beyond that, it is also time to ensure that the production we have is as natural, ecological and sustainable as possible. We cannot live with the increase in the number of pesticides found in groundwater as we test for more and more substances, and it screams to heaven that we have gradually got a culture where agriculture complains and threatens legal proceedings if they are not allowed to spray on. We politicians are not put in the world to hold hands under practices that potentially harm our health, nature and drinking water, and therefore the Socialist People's Party supports the proposal to stop the use of glyphates by 2022, not only in private gardens and on public lands, but also in agriculture. In fact, we believe that a ban on glyphosat is not just the best thing for our nature and drinking water and health. It is also good business policy, because if the industry is to do well, it must be prepared for the future to be green, and Danish farmers risk getting quite a surprise if we do not warn here from the Danish Parliament that it will soon be the end of using Roundup in Danish agriculture. In 2022, the approval of glyphosate expires, and it is far from certain that it will be extended. Denmark should therefore take the lead, tell Danish agriculture that the future is green, and when the time comes we should go along with countries such as Germany, Austria and France, all of which have initiated various kinds of restrictions or bans to ensure a greener agriculture in Europe. The German Government has already announced that it does not believe that there will be a majority of European governments to extend the approval of glyphosat from 15 December 2022, and I regret that the government has not wanted to announce clearly today that it will not vote for an extension of Roundup when that time comes. I think that would be appropriate for the debate we have had today. Agriculture must realise that it must get away from its dependence on glyphate in the fight against weeds. They must use other means in the fight, for example. in a good crop rotation and mechanical methods or organic production, as I mentioned earlier. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183141	Thank you. This did not give rise to any brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183157	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think it would come as a quite great surprise to have the previous discussion of the citizens' proposal in mind if I stood up here and said that we supported this proposal. I'm sure that would surprise you, even if it's about to be a long meeting. That is why I must immediately announce that the Conservative People's Party cannot support this proposal. This will have potentially major economic consequences for agriculture and, as politicians, we will, I think, face a problem of explanation in relation to why Danish farmers should be placed at a disadvantage. As I explained earlier, we have a view of glyphosat, which is very much in line with much of the international research that has been done on it, and that is what we are basing our position on. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but we thank the Enhedslisten for giving rise to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183318	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183321	On the subject of whether it has major economic consequences, I would say that if it is the case that, at the same time, we all agree that glyphate should be the past when we reach 2023, then that is just the way it is. I think it is some exciting processes that we are going to follow in the next year, when it has to be clarified in some way whether we should stop it and whether we should follow France, Germany and Austria in their processes. It's gonna be really exciting. The rapporteur now attaches great importance to research. What if we come to the conclusion that there is even more research which says that there are thus some pesticides that cause the decline in biodiversity, the decline in our insects, and that they are deeply harmful to bees, although it may well be that bees do not die directly from them? We have the neonicotinoids that damage the brain, and we have some other spray toxins that can damage the intestinal flora in bees, so overall you can get some bees that are really bad and that can't live well. Is this the kind of research that the rapporteur will take into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183424-2	Of course, that is something we will listen to, especially when that research comes from some of those who have been asked to advise us politicians in our position on precisely this type of case. I think it is difficult in terms of biodiversity, because I fully acknowledge the studies referred to, but I also see that such a person as Rasmus Ejrnæs, whom I think many of us also have great respect for, has pointed out that it would be insignificant in relation to both agriculture and also private gardens, which we discussed a little earlier. So research is also, what can be said, broad in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183502	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183503	I think, in particular, that it is a problem if it is the case that there is a great deal of emphasis on research and that research does not have the solutions for us. We stand there as politicians and can see that there is a decline in biodiversity, that there are fewer insects, that you measure it in Germany and say that this is catastrophic. Now we are starting to take a precautionary principle as a starting point instead of a lot of research. So that is where we have reached in some countries. Can the rapporteur not see that we are being challenged if that research cannot provide us with all the solutions, but that we can see the problems out there and have to act on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183536	Yes, of course. It may be difficult for us as politicians to act if we do not have what needs to be replaced, that is to say the alternatives that need to be addressed and that is why we must keep that track open and continue to support it. If we come to a day when a decision is being taken at European level not to extend this approval, what do we do alternatively? How do we deal with some of these challenges? Of course we must have that answer ready, because it would be irresponsible other if we were to be in that situation. So, of course, we have to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183607	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183610	Well, I just wanted to say something and then just ask a question, because Mrs Abildgaard mentioned Rasmus Ejrnæs, who is a biodiversity researcher. But as I understand his point, it is, of course, that the rare species that are threatened are typically in the woods and as untouched forest is, one might say, the rescue plank. But when we talk, you can say, more cultural nature, i.e. when the lark disappears, or when there is just generally an insect loss, something like... The hunters worry, because when there aren't so many insects, there are also ultimately a little fewer birds and fewer animals, you can hunt and then it's just another type of biodiversity, you might say. There are the endangered redlisted species inside the forest, like Rasmus Ejrnæs and others. is very preoccupied with, and it is just generally that there is life in the water hole, and that there are some birds whistling across the field. That is why I would just like to ask whether it is not also part of our biodiversity debate, namely that there must also be some life if we go for a walk in the cultivated country?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183720	Yeah, I kind of agree with that. Of course there must also be life there; when we talk about biodiversity, we have to do so widely. I also know that there are many people in the Danish scientific community who have a preference for different elements and different solutions and untouched forest etc. So I fully acknowledge that as well. So, of course, we also need to have a look at biodiversity in the open country and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183746	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183748	Yes, because that is in some way the balance that must be struck or the two legs, I think we should go on in our biodiversity work. There are the rare species inside the forest that have their organisation that fights for them, and then there is nature in the cultural landscape, which among other things. The hunters and the ornithologists work for. Then I would just like to ask whether Mrs Mette Abildgaard will be accommodating to see how we also increase that biodiversity. It could, for example, be done. be looking at whether to make such zones along the field edge, where you might not spray so much, to make sure that there are some living trenches with flowers, plants, insect life and birds.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183829	I'm always open to discussing that. There are many different means to be used. Something like shelter fences also have an effect. And then we can discuss how many plants should be per. There are many different tools that can be discussed, and we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183848	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur, so we move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114183856	The proposal aims to prohibit the use of pesticides with the active substance glyphate on agricultural land by the end of 2022 at the latest. In addition, a larger proportion of conventional agriculture must be able to receive support for converting to organic farming. The use of glyphosate-containing pesticides has a negative impact on bees and other pollinators, negative environmental impact in terms of contamination of drinking water, lakes and watercourses, as well as negative health consequences. I think we should help agriculture, because I am sure that within a few years all our agriculture has been converted into ecology, so let us help them now. In addition to ecology, there are other possibilities for larger crop rotations and plough-free soil cultivation, which we have mentioned, and where some are already doing so without the use of pesticides. So let us get that development going and help agriculture get started and give them a time limit so that they can adjust. In relation to the argument that it is EU-unlawful, I think that in Denmark, the Danish Government has contributed to the continued illegal use of glyphosat in 2017. So now I think that, together with Austria, France and Germany, we should challenge the European Union, even in 2023, when that time comes, and work to thwart an extension of the extended approval. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184035	This did not give rise to any brief comments, so we are moving on to the next rapporteur, who is from New Citizens. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184046	Agriculture has a major task for many decades to come. Farmers must produce more food for an increasing population, but also with less pressure on the climate. Business organisation Agriculture & Food has already presented a vision of climate-neutral Danish food production in 2050, and together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, they have presented a concrete plan for the removal of poor agricultural land that will no longer be cultivated. A green and climate-friendly, but at the same time highly efficient agriculture is what both the industry and politicians want. Therefore, I find it hard to understand that Enhedslisten will have banned the use of glyphate in agriculture. Glyphosat is crucially important for agriculture; it solves some fundamental challenges and there are no serious alternatives. The substance is the most widely used and best studied worldwide. In Denmark, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that glyfosat is safe to use and is not a danger to drinking water. The European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, has examined the substance and concluded that it is safe to use in relation to human health and the environment. Data and facts have revealed that it is common sense to use glyphose in the agricultural sector. However, the Enhedslisten is now making this proposal to ban the substance, while at the same time calling on agriculture on a daily basis to take responsibility for the green transition. This is a completely crooked way of looking at the world with the demand for more food for less effort in mind. It makes no sense to ban a substance which is proven to be good, a good means of green conversion. Bees have not been proven to be damaged by glyphosate. At home Per Kryger from the Department of Agroecology at Aarhus University says about the American study, which Enhedslisten refers to, that it is speculative. One has jumped on the wagon about dead bees, but there are only data for dead or impaired bacteria in the bees' intestines and some data for the bacteria's circulation of glyphosat. It's very exciting, but it's hardly an explanation for bee death. The consequences of a ban are dramatic. Agricultural activities include: with the concept of reduced tillage, which involves a minimal disturbance of the soil, permanent vegetation cover and varied crop rotation. Reduced tillage is beneficial for the climate, among others. because less fuel is used in agriculture, as soil is not to be processed. If you ban glyphosat, the weeds will have to be combated mechanically... the result will be a higher consumption of diesel with more CO2 More carbon will also be bound in the soil by reduced soil tillage, because the soil's content of organic matter will increase. A ban on glyphosate would therefore increase CO2 A ban on glyphosate would make it even more difficult to achieve the 70-percent objective of the Government's Climate Act in relation to the reduction of CO2 New Citizens cannot therefore vote for B 33. A ban will in fact only have negative consequences for agriculture, for the food industry, for Denmark, for the environment and for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184355	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184409	Thank you for the floor. If glyphosate were highly toxic and highly carcinogenic, it would be a good idea to ban it. If it worked on molecules found in humans and animals, then it would be a good idea to ban them, and if it were unbreakable, it would of course also be a good idea to ban them. If it were as dangerous as the rumors say, it might in itself be a good reason to ban it, because it is a well-known case that rumors and myth formation can create dangerous situations if society is already unstable. But I think we can take a closer look at the rumors. Glyfosate is less toxic than kitchen salt, which is fully legal. It is about as carcinogenic as red meat, and it is also still fully legal. It works on an enzyme called EPSPS, and it does not exist in animals or humans, and then it is not unbreakable; it is a substance that breaks down relatively quickly. Then back to the question of rumors. Is it a good idea to legislate on the basis of myths and rumors? We do not think so in the Liberal Alliance. The legislation must be objective and professional for the simple reason that the Folketing and the government have so much power that everything else seems to be a deterrent, so that one could be sanctioned without objective and professional reasons, that one could never defend oneself against the accusations, which were non-material and non-professional. Because if we first abandon the principle of objectivity and professionalism and if it is the case that the factual and professional arguments do not make any impression, how can we defend oneself? It's a scary scenario in the same way as those who have read the children's adventure Alice in Wonderland remember. Here there is also a queen, the Lady of Hearts, a ruler who, without any justification whatsoever, punishes completely arbitrarily. The author himself, Lewis Carroll, said that she was put into the story as an example of a tyrant, and I understand that. So we say no to symbolic policy, which is neither objective nor professional, and which, moreover, would make it very difficult to curb invasive plants and much harder to reduce nitrogen emissions than it needs to be. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184707	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184711	The rapporteur attaches importance to objective research, and we have, as it were, Danish research from last year, when we have been looking at what the negative effects are for the fauna next to a normal sprayed field. And it has been found that it actually has a negative effect on the plants that grow 10 m from a sprayed field. So there is research that clearly says this, and it is also research that makes it possible for EFSA to carry out a re-evaluation of pesticides from Danish research. On the basis of Danish research, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not be appropriate for us to look at whether restrictions should be placed on where to spray on the field. Because since it has negative consequences 10 metres outside the farmer's field that the farmer is spraying, is it reasonable that you can continue in this way, or would it be more reasonable that you have some spray-free zones on the edge of the fields, so that you take account of neighbours and nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184821	The proposal here is not about spray-free zones; it is about banning glyphosat. And it's totally disproportionate also if follow-up research shows that these results hold water.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184839	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184841	So if this Danish research lasts, and if it is the case that we still have to find that glyphosate spraying in fields has a negative effect on the fauna within 10 metres of the field, then the Liberal Alliance is obviously prepared to restrict it, because it is surely not very liberal that we have to spray the neighbor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184909	Well, we do not have any problems with regulation, which is proportional. In other words, it still has to be objective and professional, but there must also be proportionality in it. And I just have to repeat that the proposal that Enhedslisten has asked the Danish Parliament to discuss is not about peripheral zones of some sort or other it is about a total ban. That's what B33 is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184926	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114184937	Thank you for the debate. What we have been discussing here has been the Enhedslisten's proposal to ban the use of pesticides with the active substance glyphate on agricultural land, in other words throughout agriculture. And I would like to thank you for the debate and, in particular, I would like to thank the SF and the Alternative for having fully supported the proposal. I think we're going to come back to this issue within the next 1⁄2 years. After all, we are faced with the fact that the authorisation in the EU to use glyphosate expires in 2022. We have already seen countries like France, Germany, Austria report what they are working for; Austria has got into a mess because they had come to adopt the ban before they announced it to the EU system. So we must choose the right procedure and then make the right decisions, and we must try to learn from those countries. It will be exciting where it is that Denmark lays down in the process and whether it is the case that the Danish government, for example. On the basis of the government understanding that we have, we are looking to cooperate with Germany, Austria, France and other countries which can see that we need to achieve a ban on glyphate. It's gonna be really exciting. I also believe that there are lobbyists who are very active and one might wonder at some of the articles that have been published for this debate, because it is not always that there are such major articles because Enhedslisten makes a proposal. However, I would like to express my thanks for the citizen's proposal, which has then been in the process and has been dealt with at the same time, because it might have been due to the fact that there were some more lobbyists for Roundup who have come forward and, like them, have thought it important to interfere in the debate. We do not normally receive much attention when Enhedslisten makes a B proposal, so I would like to thank the lobbyists for their attention to the problem. We have not quite won today, but I still think that the debate we have had here reveals that there are a number of parties that can see that we should go further and also go further, although it is not this great confrontation with the European Union right now, but that is a kind of warming that will allow it to happen during 2021. Here we continue to work on the basis of Danish research, which clearly shows that the fauna suffers from the spraying of glyphose, and that the negative effect in nature extends to 10 m from where it has been sprayed; that is the research that lies in this way. And what about the garden owners who are just up to the agricultural land that is being sprayed and that is being sprayed every year? And do you spray a lot into Danish traditional farming? Yes, you do, because you have such an insanely simple crop rotation, where you grow grain, grain, grain and rape, and you are thus helping to create some problems, as it is almost necessary to have spray poisons in the simple crop rotation that you practice. At the same time, it has to be said that ecology is gaining ground, but it is still only on the way to 10 per cent. the Danish agricultural area, and we then have a government understanding which clearly defines that until 2030 the area must double, Danish exports of eco-products must double, and at the same time the Danish domestic market for eco-products must also double. It is, in fact, an ambition that means that we need to look more critically at how we support the development of our agriculture. I also think it is important to look at whether there are more restrictions, including the restriction of the use of glyphosate to wipe down cereal fields. It is therefore interesting that we had a process in which it was banned in cereal fields for bread grain, and then there were indeed some breweries that began to see the writing on the wall before consumers stopped drinking their beer and who came to the conclusion that they wanted to make contracts with farmers that no Roundup should be used close to the harvest, so that we can safely drink on and drink beer without Roundup. At least I'd prefer that. Then I think it's exciting about the things that have come out about it. No, it's not really exciting. It is nerve-wracking that there is research that is beginning to show that glyphosate has a negative effect on bees, which can cause damage to their intestinal flora, and that it thus helps to weaken them. I am not going to stand here and say that I can explain all bee-death because they are simply so advanced animals that it is difficult to know when things are going wrong, when they are weakened and when they are actually dying of it. I think it might be interesting to look at what is the reason why Germany has come up with such a drastic approach that a precautionary principle will be applied to bees. For so far, the driving force behind the debates on pesticides has been such as the cancer risk for people who have been a priority, and I understand that too, and it should continue to be in this endeavour to reduce the number of authorised pesticides, as well as the concern for the aquatic environment and drinking water, because there are some pesticides that are harmful to aquatic animals. Most countries in the European Union do not use groundwater as drinking water, but in Denmark, where we use groundwater as drinking water, we have a special consideration to take into account our groundwater, and therefore it is also reasonable that we can take special care to protect that groundwater. It must also be noted that so far it is not Roundup that dominates the spray toxins found in our groundwater, but we have come into a situation where you can also find Roundup residues in our drinking water, and we have these studies of our groundwater, which clearly show that the more you look for, the more you find. That is, in fact, the consequence of the extension of the study programme that is being carried out, namely that we are in a situation that is even worse than we would have thought. So how is this case gonna end in the short run? Yeah, well, I think it could be really exciting to find out to what extent we can politically decide on some measures that can reduce the use of Roundup in Denmark for the next two years. There is, of course, an automatic process when the Danish Government is forced to deal with the processes that exist in the European Union, and then the question arises: should we grant an extension and continue to allow Roundup, or should we work with Germany, France and Austria to go after the ban? In the past we have put forward proposals on the part of Enhedslisten to ban Roundup, and this has been on the basis of considerations for people, the consideration that we should not die of cancer, and we think it has been very exciting to see what processes there are in Germany, where they have taken biodiversity as a starting point and have taken the precautionary principle as a starting point. I think you can learn from that. When you see that there is an insect retreat like that in Germany, there is good reason for that. Now we are so old that we remember that when we were driving in the countryside in the old days, we didn't have a driver's license and sat in the back seat, we experienced that incredible mess with dead insects on the windshield. You never have that experience again. Has anyone had that experience lately, not here in the winter, but just in the last summer? It is so incredibly rare that there are any car owners who have to wash their car because there are dead insects on it. That's what we've come to. And it is out in a landscape that is dominated by Danish agriculture, where of course it has a meaning, how to drive agriculture, what it is for some spray poisons you use, whether it is a simple or an advanced crop rotation that you have, how to grow the soil. So we are there where starting from biodiversity is probably a slightly stronger argument than the argument for taking our own health into account only. So that is where this debate is becoming even more fundamental, bigger and even more topical, just as the starting point for the citizens' proposal was not just that it was for their own health. So it was also the consideration of biodiversity and groundwater for future generations, which was the reason why this citizens' proposal was put forward. So I would like to thank you for the debate so far. I look forward to the committee reading and I look forward to what we will achieve, which may be a reduction in the use of Roundup in Denmark, and must say that we have the prospect, realistically enough, that the ban on Roundup will not come for a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114185843	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. No one has asked for a brief comment. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114185901	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114185925	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the proposers for focusing on this very, very important issue of Danish plastic waste, which pollutes nature in third world countries. There is no doubt that this should not be the case, and our plastic waste must be handled under proper conditions and not, for example, in. Malaysia or Indonesia, where it harms both the environment and the population. This is extremely worrying, and it is also totally unacceptable. We have seen the same documentary, and I think we have reacted in exactly the same way. European waste must be treated in Europe. We should not send our waste to countries where we cannot be sure that it will not harm the population and nature. There are rules in this area, but they are not good enough when we can find this Danish waste that is handled under completely environmentally indefensible conditions in Asia. After all, waste can cross borders for many reasons, in many cases because the best recycling facilities today exist in other European countries, but we must of course ensure that this is done under orderly conditions. Since this is an international cross-border problem, large parts of it must also be solved internationally in cooperation with other countries. At international level, the rules governing trade in waste are laid down in the Basel Convention. Those rules are laid down at EU level in the Transport Regulation and the rules mean that waste transport is, as a general rule, always notified to the authorities in advance. The derogation from it is certain specific types of waste which are easy to recycle or recover. The rules specifically mean that the consignor must have approved the transport of the waste by both the authorities of the dispatcher and the recipient country. The shipper of the waste is therefore responsible for treating the waste in an environmentally sound manner until it is finally recycled. The municipalities have both the formal and the practical responsibility for managing the waste they collect from the citizens. This is already part of the current rules in this area. We have also extended producer responsibility for a number of types of waste, which means that producers are responsible for ensuring that their products are properly handled as waste until the final stage of treatment. So our rules already constitute a form of chain liability, but the examples also clearly show that we have not managed to keep track of the waste in practice and that we are not yet in the end. It is now a practical challenge to be able to follow your garbage accurately. When the waste is shipped to recycling plants in Denmark or abroad, it is mixed with waste from many different sources, making it difficult, if not almost impossible, to follow its waste until it is recycled. However, we must constantly work to improve the rules, close the gaps and achieve as much traceability as possible. In relation to the export of plastic waste, new rules have been adopted under the Basel Convention in May 2019. These new and tighter rules will come into force on 1 January next year. The new rules mean that, in the future, plastic waste will only be freely traded across borders if the plastic waste has a good recycling potential. Anything else will require approval from the authorities of the sending and receiving countries and evidence of where the waste is sent and how it is recycled. The new rules must be implemented in an OECD agreement which regulates how OECD countries must deal internally with waste. Here Denmark is actively working to get as ambitious an agreement as possible. Furthermore, the Commission has just presented its new Green Deal with a proposal to stop the export of European waste from the EU. Against this background, the Commission wishes to amend the European rules on the export of waste. I fully agree with that approach: it is the responsible way forward. The challenges that we have recently seen documented with Danish plastic waste, which is being dumped in Indonesia and Malaysia, are therefore being resolved, on the one hand, with the new stricter rules under the Basel Convention and, on the other hand, with the European Commission's plans to stop all exports of waste from Europe. But that does not solve everything, because we also need to do more at home to deal with the problem and ensure that plastic waste can actually be recycled. Here we need to ensure that we collect much more plastic waste for recycling and recycling, and we need to highlight this in the national waste plan that the government will be preparing this year. Firstly, we need to streamline collection so that it becomes easier for citizens to sort their plastic waste so that we get larger and more uniform amounts for recycling. Secondly, we need to tighten up the requirements for municipal waste companies; this is by tightening the requirements for proof that the waste that is being sold is actually recycled. Thirdly, we need to have more extensive producer responsibility on plastic packaging and on a number of other plastic products. Extended producer responsibility means that producers will be responsible for the waste management of their products and for ensuring that they are properly recycled and recycled. Of course, when producers are responsible and have to pay for it, they also have a motivation to reduce the amount of packaging and to design the packaging so that it can be better reused or recycled. Denmark is also actively involved in drawing up a European Plastic Pact in which other ambitious European countries and companies join forces to ensure less disposable consumption, better design, more recycling in Europe and a reduction in the export of plastic waste from Europe already. I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we should be able to control where our waste is being shipped, and I am therefore actually looking forward to the dialogue we are now having in committee so that we can jointly ensure that Danish waste is treated in an environmentally sound manner all the way to the final stage of treatment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190542	Thank you very much to the Minister, but before the committee is allowed to engage in a dialogue, we will take one here. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190551	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for that nice reception. After all, the minister came a long way, and perhaps it also tells us that what we are talking about here is actually more complex than that, because today waste has become a product that is being traded, also globally. I think that a lot of people know that in Denmark we are firing very much English waste. It is actually good for the environment, because in England you deposit it, dig it into the ground. You then sail the waste to Denmark, and then we burn it in Denmark and get some district heating out of it. There are a great many screws that can be screwed on, but what I would like to ask the Minister about here is that we, as a public authority, have a huge responsibility in any case. The extended producer responsibility must be implemented by 2025 at the latest. I certainly hope that we can implement it earlier in Denmark than in 2025. After all, we have a special responsibility because companies have actually paid for the proper handling of waste sorted by citizens as a public authority. That is why I think it is really a pity that it was actually the producers, and not the waste companies, who were shown out on that television show. Does the Minister not agree that we have a very great commitment to the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190708	I fully agree, and one of my concerns is that if we act on the whole green momentum that is in Denmark, where the citizens tell us that they want to be involved, that they want to sort out, that they want to be part of the solution, and where the companies do the same and say that they want to be part of the design in a different way, that they want to be part of the green solutions for the future, then it happens when they do that they experience what we saw in that documentary, namely that the waste ends in completely the wrong places, which both pollute the environment and health in Asian countries. But it is also true, as the rapporteur says, that this is very, very complex, because there are so many cooks inside. Some of it we can do ourselves, some of it we can do in the European Union, and some of it we have to do in the OECD, but what I can at least say is that, in cooperation with a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, I would very much like to work hard to do our part on the Danish side in terms of getting a circular economy and preventing what we saw there from happening again.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190808	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for the good answer. As the Minister also said, it will not be long before we have to negotiate a national waste plan. The Danish People's Party wants to make a positive contribution to this, and we also hope to be part of the final agreement. After all, the waste plan is very much about collection, and what this proposal is about is dealing with it once we have collected it. Can the Minister confirm that the two things go hand in hand: both collecting it from the citizens and then handling it in the right way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190837	It is true that there are the different links, but of course there is also a connection: if you sort out, you will also be sure that the waste companies treat it in the right way and that you avoid seeing what we saw in that documentary forward. There may be more grip on it, among other things. that it should be easier to recycle. One of the problems with the export of plastic waste has also been that it has not been recyclable, that it has not been recyclable and that it has therefore ended in some places where it should not end at all. But we can also do something at home in relation to our waste plan, which is one example, and the EU requirements, the objectives we have with each other in terms of recycling, actually change from measuring what we have collected that could be recycled to actually measuring what has been recycled, and that is a huge difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190926	Thank you very much, Minister, for your efforts. There are no more brief comments and we will therefore turn to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114190946	Thank you for that, President. The world is in a climate crisis, a natural crisis, a biodiversity crisis. We use the world's resources in a way that is unbelievably unsustainable. Those who make such measurements say that if the rest of the world consumed in the same way as we Danes do, we would need 4.2 Earth globes to get enough resources at all. It is as if we believe that there are infinite amounts of resources; it is not there and we consume them. And some of what we are really bad at in Denmark, although we are a pioneer country in many green areas, is recycling. We have been too used to burning the dirt off and getting some heat out of it, but this is not always the best way to use our waste. I am therefore very pleased that the Danish People's Party has taken up this matter because we need to have our waste sorted as much as possible. It's the most optimal if you want it recycled. And if there is such a case that questions whether it is worth sorting out for the citizens at all, then we must intervene as politicians. That is why I believe that the Danish People's Party has taken due care here. The Danes must be able to have complete confidence in the waste collection they are part of. But waste is also being treated internationally, and that is what has happened here. And that is why it is extremely important to have the international agreements, as the Minister has just explained. In fact, it has often been the case that sometimes when we are faced with international problems, it feels as if we have to start over because all the others are behind. But here we are, in fact, in a situation where a great deal is happening and where there is also a development going on. And if we can stand here and say that waste should not be exported out of the European Union and that it should be able to manage it all the way through, then we have come very, very far. However, we must note that, in the situation we have seen, it was not under control. So this requires a tightening-up, and I am glad that the Minister also mentions that. We also have to do what we can at home. When we ask the Danes to sort their waste, we must ensure that it is recycled as much as possible. That is why it is going to be really exciting when we are going to make a national waste plan, because that is where we can discuss it. We need to sort out the waste into as many fractions as possible so that it is recycled as much as possible. I also think that at some point we will have to talk about sorting waste in the same way across the country to make sure that we get some factions, that is, the type of plastic or that and the type of paper where the quantities get so large that they can be handled by companies that have to recycle them. But that's future talk. So, in relation to what we're dealing with right now, we need to have seen seriously in this area. The Minister has presented a number of things that are already under way. I look forward to seeing more closely in the committee's work and to seeing whether there are some things and some screws we can turn on. For the most important thing here is that we get recycled, so we take care of the resources of the planet, but it is also important and it is a prerequisite for the Danes to have confidence in it. So it's both we have to deliver. And then I hope that we will take a good piece of that task in the committee's work. So I would like to thank you for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191424	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mette Gjerskov. There are no brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191435	I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for this resolution and for highlighting a very topical issue. In the autumn TV 2 was able to document that tons of Danish plastic waste are being shipped to Malaysia, where it harms people and nature. It is being treated and burned off under conditions that we would never have accepted at home. It offends many Danes, myself included, and at worst we lose the desire to sort waste, I think. What good is it if our garbage is still burned off or ends up in the Far East? That is why we in the Left fully agree with the need to act. We believe that Danish waste should as far as possible be handled and recycled in Denmark and we should be much better at circular economy. Unfortunately, we are still far too bad to recycle our plastic. 60% Danish plastic waste smokes up in the municipal incineration plants, and unfortunately we have seen too many unfortunate examples of where it ends. Last year, the Left launched a plastic action plan, and in this there are a number of initiatives that we think the government and this Parliament should look at getting started. We need a more circular economy, it must be easier to recycle, and there must be standards for sorting and collecting. So there are a number of initiatives that are only waiting to be launched. There are, of course, a number of concerns about strict chain liability for waste companies, if that means an objective responsibility for all subsequent stages. Waste sent out of Denmark is divided and shipped along with all sorts of other piles of waste, which in turn are shipped with new piles of waste, and the waste is therefore difficult to follow. Impeachment liability is also a breach of our legal tradition, in which companies are independent legal objects, and therefore this is something that we should be very careful to change. But it shouldn't stop us from trying to find solutions with the Danish People's Party and the rest of this Parliament's solutions to how we ensure that Danish waste doesn't end up abroad and becomes waste from other countries. Therefore, the Left would very much like to work on this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, and we can well imagine some solutions, for example that Danish waste companies need to take more reasonable steps to ensure responsible treatment of waste which is resold and transported out of the country. But, of course, the concerns about the solutions must be clarified, and it must also be clarified what can and should be done internationally. After all, plastic waste is a global problem, which is why proper control of the waste shipped out of the European Union must also be ensured through the European Union. In the Left we look forward to further constructive work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191753	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191757	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I immediately take down quite positively. Of course, there are also some reservations, and that is always the case. We also have that in the Danish People's Party in relation to this, and that is also why we are tabling it as a motion for a resolution and not as a legislative proposal. 'Cause that's when you can get an elucidation. What I would like to ask the Left is this: if there is now an extension of producer responsibility, does not the Left believe that, as a public authority, we have a very special obligation that once the producers have paid for these products to come into our care, we must also pay for it by treating the products in an environmentally sound manner as well? In other words, it can be called something other than chain responsibility, but after all we have a responsibility for the product we have received. It may be a plastic bottle, and once we have received it and paid for it, we also have a responsibility to ensure that it is properly treated environmentally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191848	Yes, I fully agree with that, and I fully agree that it simply does not work out that we have Danish waste companies that have waste that is sent to the Far East and end up where we don't want it to end. We have a responsibility for that. It is very difficult how we are going to solve it, and there are a number of initiatives that I also tried to list up in relation to a plastic action plan. Just in relation to actual chain liability, we just have some concerns that make me unable to stand here and say that this is the right way to go. But I think it contains some elements that we can work on, so you can also calmly take my rapporteur's speech down positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191932	Thank you. I certainly do, and I would also like to say that I am very open to the fact that we can work on it in committee if we can get in other wordings and if we can adapt it, also in relation to the questions that can be asked in committee, where we can get answers from the ministry. So thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the comments that have been made. Marie Bjerre Thank you).
ParlaMint-DK_20200114191953	Thank you very much, Mrs Bjerre. There are no more brief comments, so warmly welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, Denmark's Social Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192007	Yes, it is true that we are Denmark's Social Liberal Party. Thank you for the floor. We think this is a good, sympathetic and proper proposal and we would like to support it. I listened to the Minister and could hear that the government is on the way with something, but I could not really fully understand how concrete it is. Sometimes it is an argument against voting in favour of a resolution that the government comes up with something, but unless we know exactly what it is and what the timescale is for it, then I think we should support the resolution. At least we will. Because the sooner we can get a responsible management of our waste so we don't see cases like what we saw on TV 2 about this garbage that ended up in Malaysia and can do something about that problem, the better. I think this is a very good and healthy principle, so we would very much like to support it. However, we would also very much like to have a dialogue in committee, both with the proposer, but also with the government, about whether any of this is something that is already being dealt with in the government and whether we can expect anything from them. But it is also important to vote in favour of good things twice, so if we end up in a situation where we both vote in favour of a resolution and vote in favour of something that comes from the government, then there is no harm to it. In any case, we can fully support the basic principle contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192144	Thank you, Mr President. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192146	Thank you. I would, of course, just like to acknowledge the very positive approach taken by the Radical Left to this issue, and I also very much agree with the conclusion that this is probably where it ends anyway. Because if we are to have extended producer responsibility, we need to have some sort of chain responsibility in relation to the products that we receive as a public authority. However, I look forward very much to the cooperation that we need in the committee for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192207	Now it was just a receipt, but I would like to say myself that I cannot yet fully understand the link between this proposal and the extended producer responsibility. For that is where the products end up with the producers, who then have to deal with it themselves. We can then consider what the demands are to be made of them. But it will hardly be the case that the producers send it to the waste companies; that it is the publicly owned waste companies that, it can be said, are the final managers of the waste. It must, of course, be passed on to the organisations and companies that the producers are putting in place to deal with this packaging and other waste. So I can't quite figure it out myself, but I also think there are some parallels and some overlaps. But because I cannot fully understand whether it is an idea to extend producer responsibility, I also think it is a good thing that we adopt it in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192306	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs. Zenia Stampe and welcome to Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192315	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a proposal that we support. I therefore hope that we will also be able to address the need to resolve the problem at source in committee. In our view, for example, this is the case. not so clever that many municipalities ask citizens to dump glass and metal and plastic in the same bucket when recycling companies demand pure fractions. I know that companies and municipalities that have invested in this solution think it is an excellent solution and the best, but still. It would therefore be a good start to the examination of this proposal if the Minister could indicate that we must start from scratch and separate the waste into the cleanest possible fractions where it becomes waste, namely out of the public, in other words real source sorting. I think the companies that demand pure factions will back the government in that. Chain liability is also a tempting requirement, and we support it, as I said. The problem in the current situation is that the recycling market takes place on market conditions and that even the municipalities that are really trying to sort the waste cannot access the data. If we are to deal seriously with the problem, we should ensure that the waste exported is notified to a greater extent. Waste notified must indicate the first and second destination, including the residual waste, which is not recycled, but the rate of recycling cannot be reported. For so-called green waste there is no requirement for notification, and this offers obvious opportunities for cheating. So, as far as I am concerned, there is a need to increase the control of green waste and to ensure that more waste is notified. It is therefore obvious to consider whether we can require that all plastic waste exported should be notified to the Danish EPA and therefore cannot be exported as green waste. Can we define unclean plastic waste as hazardous waste and are there any other waste fractions that are currently treated as green waste which should be treated as hazardous waste because one or more of the sites in the chain lead to environmental and health damage? After all, when unclean plastic waste leaves the European Union and ends up in Malaysia and Indonesia, what we heard about in a recent story in the media. Here, Denmark should work for a genuine export ban in the EU and in the Basel Convention by defining unclean plastic waste as hazardous waste. That is what we had to say about that proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192532	You're welcome, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs. Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten, the Red Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192543	Thank you for the floor. I would like to join the enthusiasm of the previous speakers in thanking the Danish People's Party for a good proposal on chain liability in the waste sector, a proposal which we warmly support from the Enhedslisten. After all, we citizens in Denmark produce an incredible amount of waste, too much too, so it is clear that we must reduce those amounts of waste. But sometimes you can't avoid throwing something away. It must then be sorted and put in a waste facility. And then it is only fair that we, as citizens, actually know where that waste ends up and how it is handled. It was therefore with horror that, like many others in this House in September, I saw the documentary that TV 2 had made about Danish plastic waste, chips bags and disposable service that ended up in Malaysia. And was it because in Malaysia they have an amazing recycling facility? No, it wasn't. According to Greenpeace in Malaysia, over 90 percent. of the waste burned, buried or left in the wild. We cannot be familiar with that. For too many years we have actually used poorer countries as landfills to far too much. So much so that China put its foot down last year and said: that is enough, we simply do not want to import more plastic waste from Europe. They made it illegal. And then what happened? Then the garbage ended up in Malaysia. That can't be right. Waste must be recycled well and as close to the citizen as possible. That is why we have to do a great many things here in the Folketing and in the European Union. We need a waste sector that is better at recycling. We must make stronger demands, of course, on the products and on the producers. We just need to recycle more, and then, of course, we should not use poor countries far away as our own landfill. And you can, among other things. prevent by making chain liability so that you can see where the waste ends. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking the Danish People's Party, which I will now allow myself to call some lovely environmental freaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192820	Well, fortunately, it is now completely within the rules of the new language. So we thank Mrs Mai Villadsen and warmly welcome Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114192835	Thank you. And many thanks to the Danish People's Party for having made the proposal that we are discussing here. A lot of intelligence has been said about this already. The proposal is in many ways extremely simple: introduce chain liability for municipal and private waste companies and ensure that when you send something out of the country, you have control over where it ends and how it is recycled and that it is handled responsibly. This is the kind of thing you think there should be already today; that is to say, you think that it should be a requirement today that you should be able to account for the further flow when you send something out of the country in that way. I can also hear from the Minister's speech that a lot of exciting initiatives are already under way and that part of this is being looked at, because, of course, there is an international aspect to what is significant. So that calms me too. We have great sympathy for the Danish People's Party's proposal and would like to support it. Whether that means that we are going to back up twice on some of the same things, because other things come from the minister, we will probably manage that very little happens. There are many other rapporteurs who have said a lot in general about our waste sector at home, among others. Mrs Marie Bjerre, but also Mrs Mai Villadsen just now, and how we have burned too much for too many years, recycled far too little, sorted too few fractions and so on. We need to find solutions to these specific problems. Some of them have been sketched out by the Minister. I think this chain liability is an obvious part of the solution and something I think many people assumed already existed today. I do not think we should underestimate how harmful it is for the Danes to support such things as waste management to see, for example, the documentary that came on TV 2. One still hears away sometimes Danes, who remember the broadcast that was years ago, where one saw how a garbage truck drove out and took some waste sorted in two different fractions, poured it together in the same truck and threw it away. It was the kind of thing that really made people think that it wasn't worth sorting it out. Well, why do we have to spend our gunpowder on it and bother with it with multiple garbage cans and everything else when it eventually ends up in a big lightbulb? This was not quite the case in this particular case, but everything else just was handled in a way that was not sound and that makes many Danes want to sit and say: Why do we have to make it difficult for us with it? And that is, in fact, the biggest problem in this case, probably also a more individual problem than the environmental impact it causes where it is being sent. So we support this proposal and look forward to discussing it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193128	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Abildgaard and welcome Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193135	Thank you. And thank you for the suggestion. After all, we produce far too much waste as Danes • 713 kg per day. Citizen a year. So we need to consume less, and we need to consume smarter. We need to recycle more and we need to have more circular economy. We cannot be aware of sending our waste to poorer countries, first China, then Malaysia, and what could come after that, where both children, adults, nature, climate and the environment suffer. The idea of chain responsibility is good. It means that the seller is responsible. And in this case, these are private and municipal waste companies. That is why we must also standardise our sorting so that we have a resource base for recycling companies. I also know that DAKOFA has already called for the Danish Competent Centre for Waste and Resources. And we also have plaster cycling companies that demand resources that our waste should be seen as. That is why we support the proposal for chain liability, just as we support the work on producer responsibility and other good initiatives later.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193255	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193302	Thank you. In New Citizens, we are very concerned about the debate on climate, environment and energy, and the question of ensuring that Danish plastic waste does not end up in the oceans is also a matter of concern to us. We have the basic view that Danish waste must of course always be treated in an environmentally sound way, both here in Denmark and abroad. Plastic waste is exported, for example. to Malaysia and other countries in Asia, which the proposers themselves mention, and I am surprised, because it is a fact that Danish combined heat and power plants import waste, so why should the waste be exported, in this case all the way to Asia? But in cases where the waste is actually exported, we also expect the main suppliers, i.e. the private and public waste companies, to make sure that end-users at home and abroad make an effort to recycle the waste. But to introduce chain liability, for example. a Danish waste company becomes legally and financially responsible for what a Malaysian company does will open up to serious consequences for the Danish waste companies. In New Citizens we believe that it is intrusive to make a Danish company responsible for what another company does 10,000 km from Denmark. And as the Minister for the Environment mentioned here, work is already being done at EU level to improve control of the waste shipped out of the EU, and in this way it can be said that Denmark, including the waste companies, is already working to take more responsibility for their own waste and to work towards better control of plastic exports out of the EU. It is common sense that Denmark joins other countries in preventing plastic waste from ending up in distant oceans. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193455	There's a comment from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193459	Does the rapporteur not think that it is problematic if the citizens sort out their waste • a lot of waste has been put on company logos and other things • hand it over to a public authority, in this case a municipality, the municipality handles it, and you can then see a bag from KiMs being pulled up in front of a TV team, which can then say: See here, Danish waste ends up in Malaysia? You could see how it was dangerous for the health of these children who went there that it was burned off in open furnaces. There we in the Danish People's Party believe that the public has completely lost its role. Once you have received this waste from consumers, which has sorted it out, we also have a special obligation to both the manufacturer's company logo, but also to citizens who have been handling their waste and sorting it in the right way. So does the rapporteur not see that, although it may be difficult to have that responsibility, do we have a challenge in that it can happen today?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193557	Yes, absolutely. I also think it is scandalous to experience, and when we in Denmark make such an effort to control our waste as we do, and the citizens make efforts to sort it out and place it in the way they do, it is quite unreasonable that they should experience it being exported to Malaysia, where it ends up in the oceans or otherwise being treated completely wrong. But we do not necessarily think that this should be a chain responsibility. We think that the ideas here about looking at sending nothing at all, in other words making rules to keep waste at least within the European Union and not at all sending it around the world, are a better way of dealing with it. It doesn't make any sense that we should be sailing waste around the world half the world. It probably cannot be particularly climate-friendly to do so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193651	I am glad that the rapporteur says this, because I really believe that the New Civil and Danish People's Party is not so divided about its intentions. That is why I would just like to ask whether, when the rapporteur comes back to committee, and if one can in some way make it possible for these companies to prove how their waste is handled, the rapporteur is ready to work with a different interpretation of it and in some way to ensure that today there are no rules for us to have any rules for having a special responsibility and a special obligation when we have received some sorted waste as a public authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193725	Well, as I said, I also think it is scandalous to see this, and I absolutely believe that this is something that we should do something about. The question then is how we should do it, and I think that is quite fine if we take a discussion in committee on what is the most appropriate way of doing it. So we absolutely believe that this is a problem we must look at. As has also been mentioned earlier, it is detrimental to the public's desire to handle their waste responsibly. I've also heard these stories about sorting in different buckets, and then the garbage people come and pour it into the same wagon. It is clear that this is just something that cannot be done if it is to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193804	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. To the rapporteur who is standing up here, I would like to say that, at least on my watch, you may reply as soon as the question has been asked. We do not have to wait for the President to give the floor. I say here to the questioner alone because the person who controls the microphones sits somewhere other than here in the Chamber and needs to be told that it is now the questioner's turn. So the more alive we can get the dialogue, the better. It doesn't bother me. Peter Seier Christensen I'll remember that next time). Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, and welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114193838	Thank you. As the Minister has already examined, there is a great deal going on in the international organisations Denmark is a member of when it comes to waste management. We are, of course, pleased about this in the Liberal Alliance, because the management of waste and, of course, the management of plastic waste, which this proposal is about, is a big and important issue. On February 1, 2018, Scientific American brought an article where you could read that 90 per cent. Of all the plastic waste in the oceans came from ten rivers, eight of which are located in Asia. It is not to start a debate on plastic in the oceans that I am referring to that article, but it is to say that when so much plastic can go from rivers in Asia and into the oceans, it is, of course, because the general standard of waste management in a large number of Asian countries is lower than we think it should be. That is why, of course, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, because it is an important debate to travel, and it is important that we in Denmark do not make matters worse by sending plastic waste to countries that have very low standards of waste management. But there's like two tracks. One is to go through the international organisations that we have already heard about, as the Minister has explained, and the other is the principle of chain responsibility, where we are a little more sceptical. Because, as Mrs Bjerre from the Left has already examined, the concept of chain liability is legally very complicated. At the same time, we must be honest and say that perhaps it is not necessarily the case that the bureaucratic and administrative routines that are necessary for the concept of chain responsibility to make sense are equally present everywhere in South-East Asia. Of course, this also opens up a number of problems with the credibility of the agreements that have been made and their follow-up and traceability, etc. etc. So the issue is important, but the concept of chain responsibility is complicated and has some open questions. And the whole question of being responsible for sending things out to countries that may not have the world's best administrative routines is also complicated. It can, of course, have a large number of side effects, not least that there will be an economic concentration, so that it will only be very, very large companies that can participate in anything that has to do with waste management and that it will be closed to small businesses. So we think the issue is important and that this international track we have heard about is important, but we also think that the concrete proposal is a little unclear and it is perhaps a little difficult to imagine being implemented. So we are grateful for the proposal itself, which is essential, but it has a lack of clarity which makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114194223	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114194235	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. Everyone has, of course, been positive in this respect, and when I raise the countboard, there are, in fact, six parties that will vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. This is not often the case with motions for resolutions across the blue and red blocs; it is a good thing that we can sometimes prove that when we have something to agree across the blocs, we can agree on that too. However, I am very much looking forward to the committee procedure that we are going to have. I would like to say that this proposal can be regarded almost as a citizen's proposal. Because I actually think I felt like the minister when I watched the broadcast; there I might actually see it a lot as a citizen and think about my own trash can and wonder what it is that I am telling my children and what it is that I want others to do when we talk about sorting waste and handling it. And that is why I was greatly offended as a citizen and not less as a politician. What made the most of me was that what was shown was Danish waste being shipped to Asia; in this case, plastic waste was sent to Malaysia. It was loaded off in people's gardens, in front of their homes, and they walked around with handles and made sure that the garbage had to dry; it was old remoulade cans and everything else that had to dry in the sun, and it was burned off in open furnaces with steel chimneys, of course, to the detriment of the people. You saw little children walking around with infections in the airways because this plastic waste was burned off completely wrong. So, this Danish waste was handled in the worst possible way in terms of nature, environment and not least people. Some cheap biscuits were then made; that was actually what it was used for, that is, to heat up some ovens so that you could make biscuits that you could then sell. At first I was saddened on behalf of the people who live in the neighbourhood, but I was actually even more saddened because we are actually in a unique situation where the people are ahead of us politicians. The population is ready, they want to sort, and lots of waste sorting systems are being sold that people have at home in their houses. We're kind of behind, and then there's no point. We can now see that, to put it bluntly, the public has lost confidence in the tax administration and little has lost confidence in the Health Service, and the defence has also had its affairs. We cannot hold politically that the population also loses confidence in our environmental agenda in terms of dealing with our waste. I very much agree with many of the rapporteurs who have said that the Minister also said that we are one of the richest countries in the world and that we therefore also produce a great deal of waste. That is a fact, and we may not be able to do anything about it, but we can at least do something about how we deal with that waste. We have a very effective waste collection, which is why we also believe in the Danish People's Party that, of course, one has a very, very great responsibility as a public authority for the waste we have collected to be handled in a proper way. We have made a proposal here on chain liability. I can count the votes together and see that there is no majority in favour of what it is, but I hear that both the minister and the rapporteur of the governing party and also other rapporteurs in fact all the other rapporteurs recognise that there is a challenge here. There is an environmental challenge, but there is indeed a challenge, in that we should not lose the confidence that the people still have, after all, that we should be able to deal with the waste that we produce in Denmark. So I very much hope that in the work of the committee we can have a good dialogue. I also hope that the Ministry will contribute to how we can move forward with this proposal, given that there is such a positive approach to it. I would like to say that it is absolutely not a proposal for the Danish People's Party to have a vote down here, so we can stand and point the finger at the Minister for the Environment and say that we have now stood down here and talked about it here, and then it has been voted down. It is, in fact, a proposal that we hope can win a majority by taking out the inappropriate things that may be. When it comes to making chain responsibilities, we are very open to seeing if you can do it in another way. However, we believe that we need to take seriously that a public authority that has waste in its possession also has a very special responsibility for how it is treated. We in Denmark cannot stand up for Danish waste coming to Malaysia, being dried in open nature out in people's gardens, after which it is burned off in open ovens with the very large genes that you could clearly see that it has for the local population. So it is a very, very boring matter, but I think it has been very positive to see that in this way we can agree in the Folketing that we have a particular challenge here; we can then have a little disagreement on how to land it, that is to say what it is that we are going to land on, but I certainly take it down positively from all parties and, of course, particularly in relation to those who have said that they will vote in favour of the proposal as it is here. And to be called a lovely environmental freak it's not every day, it can be positive, even though it's late.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114194754	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114194811	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114194831	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution we are now considering will require the government to change the rules so that the right of local and regional council members to leave for leave on grounds of holidays, studies or the like will be in line with the rules applicable to members of parliament. This summer the newspapers were filled with stories of municipal politicians on leave paid by taxpayers' leave, which are used to paint a house or take a trip to the Caribbean; leave spent on other political duties; leave where it is difficult to see why elected politicians should be able to receive remuneration when they do not suit the job for which they have been elected. Against this background, I and the government launched work aimed at proposing more reasonable remuneration rules for politicians in municipalities and regions. I therefore do not want to stand here today explaining or justifying the fact that local politicians can keep their salaries in these situations. That is why the government also agrees with the background to the proposal. There must be more reasonable rules for the remuneration of local and regional government workers in the event of absence where the absence is not due to illness, pregnancy, maternity or adoption. We must ensure that local and regional authorities cannot be away from their duties as elected representatives for longer periods of time, while at the same time receiving remuneration, unless the absence is due to illness, pregnancy, maternity or adoption. With that agreement in place, it is reasonable to ask: why not just change the rules as proposed by the proposers? If the government agrees with the intention of the resolution, but still cannot support it, it is because we believe that the rules of local and regional policy cannot simply be uniform with the rules of parliamentary politicians. This is because there are some fundamental differences between municipal and regional policies and being elected to the Folketing. The rules on remuneration in the event of absenteeism must therefore be applied to certain tasks which are fundamentally different. In particular, there is a duty to meet in local politics and to have a level playing field for the involvement of local and regional authorities. So, unlike parliamentary politicians, municipal and regional politicians have a duty to meet, and it is important that the people who run and are elected have a duty to meet when decisions are to be made that are crucial for the operation of the municipality and the region. Local democracy must not be short-circuited by the fact that the members of the municipal council or the regional council only appear when it suits them. Local politicians make decisions that often have a direct impact on citizens, both in the positive and the negative way. It is important here that there is a meeting obligation so that local politicians cannot just choose to stay away when unpopular decisions need to be made. And local politicians do not only make individual decisions; they share the overall responsibility for the operation of the large public authority which the municipality or the region is. Therefore, a stable attendance among members of the local councils and committees is particularly important. The government will not help to change the rules, which may be the reason why local and regional authorities can look at their important tasks in municipalities and regions. That is why we believe it is important to maintain the obligation to attend, and that is why we do not believe that a free right should be introduced for local and regional authorities to choose leave free of charge, as we have in the Folketing. Several local and regional authorities have said during the media coverage this summer that if only they could renounce the remuneration during leave, they would have done so. Against this background one might ask: why not just change the rules so that they can say no? This may seem quite obvious, but there are important democratic reasons why it should not be a moral choice whether or not to accept remuneration as municipal and regional policies. There must be no political or moral pressure to renounce your remuneration when you are absent. This can lead to very unequal conditions for the appointment of an elected official. Let us take an example of this: we have two municipal politicians, one working full-time as well-paid boss next to his office as a municipal politician, while the other is a student. The municipal politician with the well-paid chief job is sent on a longer mission and is prevented from performing his communal duties for 3 weeks. The student must complete his/her thesis during the same period and therefore also have to be absent in the 3 weeks. The municipal politician with the chief job can easily keep his private economy running without the remuneration of the municipal office and therefore waives his remuneration during the period of absence. The student, on the other hand, cannot pay his bills if he does not have his municipal salary and therefore has to keep the remuneration even if he has to cancel some meetings because of the thesis. When the cross is put to the next elections, it gives the two elected representatives unequal cards on hand, for why does one keep the one remuneration, while the other can hold the moral banner high and renounce the remuneration during the period when he or she cannot work for local democracy? The moral judgment, which can, of course, cover up very unequal conditions for being in local politics, will not be a part of the government. You have to be able to be local and regional governments, no matter what private economy you have. I would like more people, and not fewer people, to engage in politics and run for local and regional councils. It's not a regular job, it's an important job. That is why the conditions must also be fair, otherwise people will lose their confidence in us politicians. We need to strengthen that confidence and not weaken it further. That is why the government will shortly come up with concrete proposals on how to tighten up the rules on the right of local and regional government to remuneration when they are absent. The specific proposals will pay particular attention to the need for the rules to be fair. That should not be possible, for example. to travel around the world for three months and continue to receive remuneration for his municipal political duties. Secondly, as far as possible, the rules must be objective, and by this I mean that there must be clear rules so that it should not be up to the moral or financial capacity of the individual whether he or she receives remuneration or not. Thirdly, we must also remember that the rules must be administered in practice in the municipalities and regions. We cannot regulate all the details from Christiansborg, and neither should we. So to conclude: the government fully agrees with the intention to create more reasonable conditions for the remuneration of municipal and regional politicians when they are away from their duties. However, for the reasons I have mentioned here in my reply, we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution on which we have to take a position this evening. Instead, we will shortly be presenting the government's own proposals for more reasonable remuneration rules, for which we hope to have broad support. So thank you for the floor this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195513	You're welcome. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195519	I often find that I disagree with what has been said from the platform, but, as it were, I understand the logic of what is being said. It is rare for me to experience that I am simply completely lost behind a wagon compared to what has been said up there and what is the logic of what has been said. In other words, because members of the municipal council are required to attend, they must be paid if they take leave of absence. I am simply completely lost, so I have to ask the Minister to repeat his argument, so that apparently very sluggish people like me can understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195600	That's what we're trying to do. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195603	Well, I'm glad to have an explanation for Ole Birk Olesen's facial expression during my speech. I was very excited about what it meant. So I apologize if my teaching skills are simply not enough here. When I spoke about the obligation to attend, it was to show the fundamental difference between our duties here in the Folketing and the duties of a municipal and regional council politician who has the duty to attend. Those in the Folketing who have double mandates must know that. It is recorded whether you attend council meetings and committee meetings there is Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, who sits in the Folketing, wants to know that there is no corresponding registration of Mr Olesen. Ole Birk Olesen or other meetings leading up to committee meetings or anything else. Therefore, one might say, there is a fundamental difference in what kind of job one is carrying out. That is one argument. That is why the government cannot take part in what this motion for a resolution asks us to do, namely to ensure that the right of local and regional council members to remuneration corresponds to the rules applicable to members of parliament. We don't think you can make that comparison... it's two different jobs for the reasons I hope a little more educationally explained now. Well, I'll have to explain the other half, if mr. Ole Birk Olesen wants to ask me to.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195715	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195718	I mean, I understood that there was a meeting obligation, but why does it mean that you have to get paid when you take leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195725	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to then give the second half of my explanation. We are in fact in complete agreement with what I see is the reason why the authors of the motion for a resolution are raising this point, namely that, as I also went through in my speech, there are some quite obvious examples that the current rules on remuneration do not work. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. We believe that this should be changed in order to take 3 months to the Caribbean or to apply for leave to paint its house and then still receive remuneration. We just don't think this is the right way into it. I hope that when I put forward my specific proposals, Mr President. Mr Ole Birk Olesen will then see that it makes more sense than he thinks my speech here did; at least we fully share the intention of tightening up here, because there is something in the way the remuneration rules work for municipal and regional politicians today that does not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195810	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195812	Thank you so much. I'm sitting with a wonder after the Minister's speech. The Minister mentions here that if you incorporate a proposal such as that put forward here that you as a municipal politician may renounce your remuneration, it will do so, and I quote almost literally the Minister, that municipal politicians take a big view of their duty. Does the Minister really think that in here, Christiansborg, there should be rules to ensure that municipal politicians do their job? Does the Minister not think that in this way it is adults who are used to a political office and that they probably best know for themselves, hopefully, how to do that job? And if they do not fit it properly, that is where democracy is so wonderful, because then the people can opt out of them at the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114195912	Well, I think it is at the heart of the way in which our municipal and regional councils operate that there is a duty to attend. And it is clear that you participate in lots of things as a local politician, where there is no duty to meet when you meet with background groups when you meet with citizens. There are many different meetings where there are no meetings. However, where you are jointly responsible for the operation of the various areas of the region, and this can, for example, be done. I said that it is not just individual decisions for which one is responsible, but one is in fact responsible for the overall operation. It is essential that there is a meeting obligation. But that is not what this motion for a resolution is about, so that we have to remove that obligation. The motion for a resolution here is about equal treatment in terms of remuneration on leave. And when I mention the obligation to attend, it is to clarify in what ways it is two different tasks to perform, whether you sit in the Folketing or whether you sit on the city councils. I believe, and I am also quite sure, that we can come to terms with some rules which, as I said in my answer, are both fair, objective and to administer, and where we do not put this layer down on such a moral judgment as one might be able to lay down on one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200026	Yes, but I don't think the Minister really got the answer to the question. It is basically a question of whether it is considered that the members of the municipal or regional councils who sit around our regional and municipal councils have the ability to assess whether they want to take a leave, perhaps take some holiday or something else, and therefore also naturally renounce the remuneration that they receive for their municipal or regional council work. Does the Minister really not think that the elected representatives themselves can judge whether this is right or wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200104	Thank you. Well, then, I hope they can, and I will say there that that is not what should be the purpose for us to change our remuneration rules. Our remuneration rules must be fair, they must be objective and then they must be manageable out there. And I think there are problems with all three dimensions here. After all, the outrage was felt when the various front page stories rolled over the various media during the summer. But we also heard from the other side - and this is something that Mette Thiesen mentions - about some local politicians who said: we cannot actually be in the rules that are now. So I'm kind of out on a mission where we can solve everything by adjusting the rules. But doing that parallelism between the task of being a municipal or regional politician and a parliamentary politician, which is laid down in the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, does not make sense for the reasons that I have tried more or less successfully to sketch out here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200156	When the lamp on the platform blinks with a heart, time is over. It's even red at the same time. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200205	Thank you. I also need to have something explained, because I think that what we are discussing here is remuneration, in relation to the fact that you have applied for and been given leave. And in my world, at least, when you're on leave, it's not like you're gonna show up. Then you don't get to the meetings. So it's not about meeting duty or not; I don't see how it works here at all. So what we really need to discuss is: in what situations have you been given leave, you have to have your remuneration? I hear the Minister say that if you take 3 months to the Caribbean, you should of course not be paid. The proposal here is that if you are ill, if you are on maternity leave or equivalent, you will of course be paid. But if you take a vacation or have other private reasons, you should not have an election campaign or whatever it might be. Is it so hard to say: yes, of course the rules should be like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200307	After all, this motion for a resolution will require the government to change the necessary rules so that municipal and regional council members' right to leave will be in line with the rules applicable to members of parliament. And we cannot do the same when it is not recorded whether the rapporteur is doing his committee work or in what way the rapporteur is doing his job as a full-time politician in the Folketing. On the other hand, when we talk about local politicians and regional policyers, we have a duty to attend, so that it can be recorded. I think that the stories that appeared in the press this summer show that we need to change these rules, and I think we can do this in a way that meets what I said, namely that it will be more reasonable rules, that they are objective, that we do not put moral responsibility on the individual in this way and that they are to be administered out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200404	Well, I don't think the parallel is that far away anyway. I don't see those who have been given leave in here from the Folketing showing up. They are usually somewhere else; that is why they have applied for leave. And it's exactly the same if you apply for leave and get it. But does this really mean that if the proposers changed it here so that it is not a parallel to the members of parliament, but just a parallel to the ordinary labour market, then would the Minister be able to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200432	I would say that I have started work after the summer recess, and I hope to be able to conclude on this very soon with a proposal. And there I hope to have broad support in this Chamber. At some point this evening, the authors of the motion for a resolution will be given the floor, but it will be a proposal which will take account of what I see as the purpose of this motion for a resolution. So I cannot go into the details so far as to say that I am not quite finished working on the adjustments we are going to make, but I would just like to say that I share the rapporteur's view that there are some things we are doing where we are not doing our political duties, where it is quite unreasonable to receive remuneration as it is today. And this is where we need to get in and secure better rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200516	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200518	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is the case that the Minister has met municipal politicians and regional policyers who are in charge of these duties and have done so with the intention that they wanted to have three months' leave with pay. I personally spent 22 years in a town council before I joined the Folketing, and it was not until this summer that I realized that you could get paid if you went on leave. You just have to say that when you talk to local politicians about this, they think it is something that should be deleted immediately and they simply do not understand that it is there. So I just want to ask whether the Minister has met any local politicians who think this is right and that it can be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200615	No, I haven't, and that's why I started to revise these rules this summer in a way that should be manageable out there. So the short answer is no. I do not think I have expressed this in my reply this evening either.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200632	Now the Minister mentioned that it is the duty to attend that is the reason why the Minister believes that there is a difference between members of parliament and members of the municipal council, but we returned to it one more time, because when you apply for leave as a councillor or member of the regional council, you apply for leave, and then it is quite natural that no pay will be paid. Surely we politicians must make sure that this is corrected as soon as possible. Can the Minister tell me how long a horizon there is on this bill that the Minister is working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200715	It will be very, very soon that I will be able to put something forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200722	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200725	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for at least indicating that something is going to happen in this area, and it is clear that I am standing here and am very curious about what it is when it is not what we have presented here today in the Enhedslisten. Because I hear the Minister also say that these rules are totally unfair, and that is why I think that now that we have the debate, the Minister should just lift a little bit of the veil over what it is that is going to stand instead and then becomes more reasonable. Because I actually think, contrary to the Minister, that some people stay away from politics, they don't get involved because they're just looking at these rules and thinking: what are the politicians really doing? Why do they need rules that are so much better than the rules that are where I am and go to work? I simply believe that such lucrative rules as they are helping to create a greater distance between people and politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114200826	I think the rapporteur is quite right about that. I spoke in my opening speech about confidence in us as politicians and about what we can do to ensure that more and not fewer people are involved in politics, and I think that some of what is crucial is that we get past this kind of discussion that has filled the newspapers. What can I lift the veil for? There have been various discussions. There have been discussions in relation to absenteeism due to health and what is required here in relation to documentation, and there have been these discussions about what is actually legal decay. Because the obligation to attend is not absolutely total or absolute; in fact, there are some things that trigger legal decay in relation to the municipal political obligation to attend. But what does this mean in relation to when payment of remuneration will be stopped and when replacements will be called up for consideration? There I think we can introduce some automatics to get away from this dilemma, which I also hear about the Conservative rapporteur's question too many municipal politicians stand in because the rules are not clear and clear. There we can have more objective rules in place so that it is not up to the individual to stand in these situations that can be difficult. Then we must basically make sure that the rules we have are understandable, so that they can also follow out there. So these are some specific adjustments in relation to such a thing as documentation requirements, in relation to when there is legal decay and compensation here, and so basically that we get these rules set up in a way that they are able to understand and follow out there locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201004	Honestly, I don't think it's that complicated. We should be able to make some rules, just as we do in the Folketing, just as we do in the labour market, which is quite clear: that there are some special reasons where you can get leave with pay, which makes sense • it is, for example, if you are ill or if you are on maternity leave and if you are then on leave to go on diving holidays or to paint your house, you will of course not get paid. In fact, I do not think it is as complicated as I find the Minister doing so in some way. I am aware that being a member of the municipal council is a part-time job, but I think that is almost all the more important as to why you should not be paid when you take leave. After all, some people take leave because they have been given several hours at their regular work. Well, it's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201054-2	It's always nice when you can say that it's not that complicated, and then we have to put it into law. I have to say, unfortunately, that when it comes to having this translated into something that holds legal form, it is more complicated than the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does, and I am obviously not in my most educational corner today, I can feel the rapporteurs. In other words, even today there is a distinction between legal and non-legal decay in relation to the municipal obligation to attend. So it can already be said that Mrs Rosa Lund drew a picture that is a little more simplified than that. I can also say that there are some of the discussions that have been in the press, where they also say that there are some politicians who have given one reason for their decay to their municipal council and another reason for the press. So, yes, you can make these discussions very moral very quickly so that we can all get very outraged. The problem is that when we scratch a little further into it, it's actually a little more complicated. However, I fully share the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, and I will look forward very much to getting it, and this may all indicate that I am making broad support for some rules that I can put forward very soon and which are tightening up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201154	Thank you very much to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior for today's work. Then we move on to the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is also a social democrat, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201208	Thank you very much, President. Of course, following on from what the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior has said, I would like to say here what I, as rapporteur, am thinking in this context. I am thinking, just like Enhedslisten, here too, of the need to achieve a much better balance between the conditions, frameworks and rules that are for politicians in general, and then the balance and the rules that are in the ordinary labour market. That is why the basis is quite right to raise this debate with this motion for a resolution, because something really needs to be changed. That is also why we are several parties here in the Danish Parliament who are already discussing in depth how we view the overall framework for politicians' conditions and rules in the field of remuneration, including pensions and also leave rules, which we are discussing separately this evening. It is necessary, and there are others who have already said in this debate, that this helps to reduce the desire to engage in politics and that it can affect the vision of politicians' activities. Nor is it an insignificant basis for looking at it here, and so is the fact that many local politicians and regional politicians, as has already been shown in the debate, have expressed themselves very clearly that they actually think it is unfair that the rules are as they are. And that's why we need to look at it. There are also, as the Minister has said here, areas where it is impossible to make a complete comparison between having a role as a municipal politician, a regional politician or a parliamentary politician, and that is also why I must, of course, stand here and say that we cannot support this proposal, but I have already said very clearly in my introduction that something must be done, and we are working on that, and there is a large group of parties which are already discussing the overall framework in terms of conditions for politicians. What lies in this is that the labour market is framed and that there are mechanisms, in terms of how things are regulated and, as the Minister has also said, that is what is being looked at, and that is why, of course, we in the Socialist Group will be looking forward to the government having a legislative proposal and that we can have a broad political discussion here in the Parliamentary Assembly in order to tighten things up in this area, and it is, of course, a question of having the leave rules in place in relation to the long-term absence from the municipal and regional political office that you have. So I can only say that it is good that the Enhedslisten raises the debate, but the Enhedslisten is also well aware that we already have some political discussions in here. Not all parties are involved in these discussions, because we have based ourselves on the proposals that came from the Pay Commission back in 2016, and this has, like, been the beginning of political discussions on the conditions and rights of politicians in general. The Social Democrats, therefore, do not support the proposal as it stands in this argument, but look forward to a broad political debate here in the Assembly and, as the Minister has said, it will obviously be so soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201538	You're welcome. It gave rise to a few brief comments, and we will take them immediately. First, it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201544	Thank you for that and, in particular, thank you for recognising that something needs to be done. I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that this is not what needs to be done. And then I can't stop being a little curious about what it is that needs to be done. I really would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201604-2	After all, I can give no more answer than what the Minister has already given. It is the Minister who is working on the bill. And the Minister has said that it will be put forward and presented for political discussion within a very long time. What I am saying is that we are a group of parties that sit and look at the terms and rights of politicians in general, where it is also about remuneration and pension relationships, in general, the whole package that politicians have.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201631	I also think it is very sensible to look at the package as a whole. I hope it is no secret that Enhedslisten also wants to have a fight with the pension conditions in here. However, these are discussions which then take place behind closed doors. Now we are here today in Parliament where everyone can keep up, and I think it would be nice to hear: what will the Social Democrats actually do in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201657	I cannot go any further than what the Minister has said. It is the Minister who is working on it and, as I said, we have a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201704	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201707	Well, it may well be that sir... Flemming Møller Mortensen notes very much that there is a difference between a member of parliament and a member of the municipal council. But I'd like to ask Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen to explain why the Social Democratic Party cannot vote in favour of the fact that you as a municipal councillor should not be allowed to receive your remuneration when you take leave for everything else and have an alternate summoned to do your job. Why should one continue to be paid when another person is responsible for one's duties as a municipal councillor? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201744	Nor should I be asked by the rapporteur. That is exactly what I am saying here, that is, there is an absurdity. Something's not right here. And that is also why I have said that a better balance must be struck so that it is also in harmony with what is in the ordinary labour market. That is what I have said. That is the position of the Socialist Group. That is why we are working hard to look at the conditions and framework of politicians at all. After all, the minister has made it clear that the challenge of this motion for a resolution is that it should be a parallel to the Folketing. And the Minister has explained in detail that is not possible, that is to say to make the composition. As rapporteur, I can only be very pleased that the Minister has said that this is a long way off. And the Minister has said that it will not be long before we have a broad political debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201837	I can't take it seriously when sir... Flemming Møller Mortensen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, says that he is opposed to municipal councillors taking leave and withdrawing remuneration while on leave, while someone else is doing their job in the municipal council, who is also paid. I can't take it seriously, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen says he is against it when he will not vote to change it. And so it is here in the Assembly Hall. If you vote against changing something, it is because you are against changing it. If you're trying to change it, you're voting to change it. That is the way it is; it is actually that simple, and that is why it has to be said that social democracy is in favour of municipal councillors being able to take leave and receive pay while taking leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201918	Sometimes you get lucky with that, that is to say, trying to do that kind of manipulation. I only know what I have said in my rapporteur's speech. And I have said that I am very much looking forward to the government making their own proposals in order to tighten up the rules on remuneration for long-term absenteeism to municipal and regional council politicians. And that is exactly the same thing I have said one and the other time, and that is what the Minister has also said here this evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201941	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen. And a warm welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114201947	Thank you. As, unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Left in this area is not in a position to be in the Chamber today, I have promised instead of giving a small rapporteur's speech. First of all, thank you very much to Enhedslisten for focusing on this problem. You could say that it has filled a lot in the media. Especially during the autumn of 2019 there were many examples that both municipal councillors, but also regional councillors actually went into the media and said that they really wanted the opportunity to opt out of the remuneration. And I can start by saying that here, that is that we in the Left are really looking at the fact that we are getting something done about it. For that matter, we have also received many requests from the Left, who sit on the city councils or regional councils, who have drawn attention to the problem here, and that is one of the things we also believe is necessary to address. Having said that, I would like to say that it is also in this way that we will not be supporting the resolution here. We really think it's important to have a look at • when we're about to change some things • that we might get dug a little further down and have a look at a whole package. As previous rapporteurs have also said, there is of course also a difference between the two roles. I mean, you can't just compare one to a career as a city council politician with the job of, for example. Parliamentary politician. In addition to that, I would also like to say that some of what is going to mean something to us in the Left is that we are now getting this done well and thoroughly, that we are getting things looked at and that we are ensuring that the rules we are going to have made Hopefully soon ensure some fair conditions for our elected representatives. I believe that we have a responsibility, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber, to ensure that, hopefully, many people continue to want to stand for both the city councils around the country and for that matter also for the regional councils. With that I would say that the Left is positive; the Left is looking forward to getting this in place once and for all. Unfortunately, we are not going to support the proposal here, but we hope that soon, hopefully, there will be a broad agreement in this Chamber to get these things right so that we do not again meet similar issues in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202239	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202244	But it is quite fine that we want to tackle the more fundamental and major reform, etc. etc. If you vote for this, you can then ensure that it becomes an element of the major reform. After all, nobody says that this is going to be carried out tomorrow and that a major reform will then have to be carried out later. If you vote in favour of this, it will be an element of the major reform that municipal and regional council members cannot take leave for a few months with remuneration, while at the same time receiving an alternate who is also paid, so that there is a double cost to covering the representation of a party because there is someone who thinks that he should take leave, while at the same time there is someone else who needs to be paid in addition to the remuneration of the first person. Well, you just have to stop that. And I do not understand why the Left is not just voting for this, so it will be an element of the major reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202338	That's because we in the Left are actually in favour of us now looking at this together and getting a better and bigger package, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202349	Well, that's what my question was all about. So, when you make the better and bigger package, why not make sure that this becomes an element of it, because it is obviously foolishness? It is obviously foolish and unreasonable that municipal councillors in this country can go on leave for weeks and months and then continue to get paid, even if they do not do their job while they go painting their house or train or run an election campaign for the Folketing or just do not want to be a municipal member during that period, but just need to have a relaxing period. And yet they have to be paid. It's obviously unfair! So you can just vote for it if you agree that it is obviously unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202427	But we won't. And it is actually, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, and I have some doubts as to whether Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has actually listened because we want to make sure that there might be a larger package, a more thoroughly worked package and a better package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202448	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202450	Thank you. I am experiencing something a little strange today that I have not tried before, namely that I wanted to ask exactly the same question as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, and that's a little weird. But I would just like the rapporteur of the Left to spell this out completely, because I simply do not understand why one excludes the other. We agree with this proposal, but we also want a larger package. We would like to do so in the Enhedslisten, but one does not exclude for us the other, because we see that this must be part of a larger package and that is why we are putting forward this proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202525	I fully agree with Mrs Rosa Lund that this is a fine little package, and I also fully agree that it is one of the things that Enhedslisten is presenting here today that we must have corrected. But I also have to say, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that I can be in doubt whether you can just equate the two tasks that are actually being done in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202553	So if there was a prior investigation, which I think would show you could easily equate it this way, but I'm not going to attribute it to this fictitious investigation... would the Left back it up? In other words, if we looked into it now and set it in motion, what would the Left think of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202616	I have to say that I still have a belief, a hope that soon, in broad agreement in this Chamber, we will be able to clear this up, and I hope that this clean-up might be even better than the resolution we are debating right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202636	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114202653	Thank you. This is a fascinating debate we have here. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising it, because it is and so I would say that just before Christmas the Danish People's Party put forward a proposal which is in many ways similar to the proposal we are dealing with right now. It is then supplemented by a proposal that you should provide medical statements if you are ill, and then there is no parallelism with members of parliament. So I can be a little excited about it. That will certainly come in a month's time, and if no proposals have been made by the government, I expect that everyone in here will be able to support that proposal precisely because we have taken out what seems to be very much opposed here today. In the Danish People's Party we believe in principle that the wage and pension rules we have as politicians, whether as municipal politicians, regional politicians or parliament politicians, must be comparable to those on the Danish labour market. The conditions must be fair, they must be reasonable, but at the same time it is also very important that they are transparent and understandable so that the citizen can see through and accept them. Councillors and members of the Regional Council are currently entitled to three months' remuneration if they take leave for holidays, other work, studies or the like. In case of illness or maternity, members may receive up to 9 years' leave, apologies, 9 months' leave 9 years is a somewhat longer period, and it would be wild and, in the case of illness, they should not have to prove why they are enrolled. Therefore, city council and regional council members also do not need to provide evidence of illness in the form of a medical certificate, for example, but in our optics it should also be a requirement, just as it is in the ordinary labour market, so that you can of course prove that you are ill and get the benefits that lie in it not in being ill but in getting the remuneration while you are ill. In connection with the parliamentary elections it has been mentioned a few times that several local politicians took leave to conduct the election campaign, and in this context it was also mentioned from several quarters that it was a problem that it was not possible to waive the salary during the leave. It is not reasonable, then, that, if you take time off from caring for your own interests of some kind, you should be paid for it while someone else is paid for doing your job. There are many examples of politicians who maintain a remuneration, even if they take time off, and this of course allows for the use of the system as a party, and it also provides additional costs for municipalities and regions. Every normal employer will normally pay wages to those employees who wish to take the time off, while also paying a temp. DR News has recently uncovered local politicians' use of leave arrangements, and access to documents showed that 194 city council members have been on leave from 1 January 2018 to 1 September 2019. Of the 194 members there were 81 with illness, 34 were given leave because of maternity leave, while the rest were given leave because of busy work, holidays, personal reasons, and some, 14 even did not indicate it. This means that four out of ten would not be paid if this proposal were adopted. The 4 out of 10 I hear in this way we agree that should not be paid. That is certainly what the rapporteurs who have been up to now and the questions that have been asked are saying. So why are we not just adopting that part of it? It should be good and natural for the rules for politicians to be changed and simplified so that they were in line with the rules that apply to everyone else in the labour market. If we do not get some support for it in here, we would like to try to delve into the system a little more in committee. We would ask the Minister to provide additional statistics on how the scheme is being used, how many people have part-time health reports, how many are on sick leave to the city council, while at the same time having their work side by side, etc., in order to actually have the basis for further work. If nothing else, perhaps we can help to establish the basis that the government can then use for what they seem to be working on, which is much better, much bigger and much wider than this. Finally, I would just like to call on everyone to vote in favour of this proposal, because we all agree that this has to be done. There is also agreement that it should be a larger, broader and better package, and that is quite fine. This is what is going to happen during the coming parliamentary year. So let's calmly take it with the other and make the big good package, but let's start by saying that we agree on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203136	Thank you. There seem to be no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203158	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate. There have been many truly qualified speeches. And then it is a classic that we are discussing today. We have had it up before, Enhedslisten has also put it before, and thank you for that. I also know a great many local politicians who really wanted to be free of this remuneration when they take a break. They don't feel like they should have it either. For the same reason, I also think that we should look seriously at the problem, even when we are making the big package, which several people are also referring to today. But we must also have respect for local democracy and, above all, for the people who are lifting it. I think that is extremely important, and I would like to emphasise this in this debate. Because if you embark on municipal and regional political work, you are, in my view, an overlooked hero. You get all the boxes, you don't get a lot of media coverage, you don't get much in return, and then you don't even get to take any paid vacation. To put it mildly, the working conditions are not enviable, and I would like to throw that into this debate as well. We need more and not fewer people who want democracy in the municipalities and regions. In fact, I believe that the lack of a desire to participate in the political bodies of democracy is a huge democratic problem. It is absolutely fundamental to our democracy that everyone with a desire and ability has the opportunity to participate in local and regional policy work. That is why the rules are designed so that they recognise that it may be legitimate to have absenteeism, as has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs. That being said, we in the Radical Left are always ready to have another discussion of politicians' working conditions, as we have done so often before, and I understand that it seems absurd that municipal politicians should also be able to refuse their remuneration during leave. But the proposal here is not as simple as what the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior has also said. There is a fundamental difference between being a full-time parliament politician and being a municipal or regional politician as a leisure profession. Policy as a leisure profession requires some flexibility with regard to the organisation of political work and the other everyday life. And to start with the rules in force, it is the duty of members of local and regional councils to carry out their duties. So there is no ordinary right to take leave of absence according to the rules. A municipal politician may not choose to waive his remuneration during a period of absence, regardless of the reason for his absence. However, like everyone else, local and regional politicians can legitimately be prevented from attending meetings or being absent for periods of up to 3 months, just as in the rest of the labour market. It can, for example, be done. be that they are prevented due to illness, work or studies, as has also been mentioned. And there is absolutely nothing to prevent a local politician from donating his remuneration to the Red Cross, or just the sports association or the street car that was disadvantaged in the last round of municipal budgets. However, until we see a comprehensive proposal on how politicians' conditions should be aligned and, from our point of view, on the basis of the remuneration committee's report, we intend to vote against partial solutions. We would rather treat the issue of politicians' working conditions as a whole rather than jumping from tue to tue.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203522	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203526	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is absolutely right in saying that sitting in a municipal council requires some flexibility, but I just do not think that flexibility should be that you should be paid during leave. I mean, I just don't think the two things are connected. The fact that there must be flexibility is one of the reasons why you are paid because you may have to work less or cannot have a student job if you are a student. But that does not mean that, when you take leave, you are paid, because then there is also a commodity you do not deliver, and therefore I cannot understand why the Radical Left is mixing the two things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203610	In fact, I am also not sure that I cut out this late in the day tight enough what it really is, our position on that very question. For we believe, just like the Enhedslisten, that there are some areas where it is not right to receive remuneration during leave. It is completely like in the labour market. There are some things that may be maternity leave, or it may be illness that is rights in the labour market. Paid maternity leave, paid illness, etc. It's something we've been fighting for. And then there is some leave that should not be paid, which can be awarded to one's employer on the labour market. As completely as the Social Democrat rapporteur also presented it, it is something to try to organise this industrial relations as a whole. But that being said, we also believe that there is certainly another solution for precisely this type, because you cannot compare parliamentary politicians and local politicians, so it may well be that this is a third way we have to come together, and we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203704	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203706	This proposal is precisely about the leave that the rapporteur is talking about. This isn't about maternity or illness. There I fully agree that if you have a child and have a leave of absence, then of course pay and those arrangements are included. That's the way it is in here in the Folketing. I just want to know if I understand the radical rapporteur correctly: you want to have a single package to do away with some of these unfair rules, but this should not be part of that package. That's the one thing I get curious about. The other thing I get curious about is: What should be part of that package?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203743	That you, for example... I'm gonna make a medical certificate when you get sick, I think it's perfectly reasonable, and I think that's gonna be part of the big package that we're all talking about. Well, there are some elements of what Enhedslisten has here that I'm pretty sure we'll deal with when the government comes with the big package.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203813	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to SF's rapporteur, Theresa Berg Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114203832	Thank you. This is obviously a foolish rule, which means that municipal politicians must receive three months' pay even if they voluntarily take leave. I know that because right now I am subject to exactly the rule in which I, as a municipal politician, have been allowed to be a substitute for our Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. So I am today one of the front-page women mentioned by our minister was on the cover of the country's newspapers this summer. For the next six months, I'm gonna have to spend my time being a parliamentary politician. It's a great honor, and at the same time I've taken leave of absence from the city council because I need to spend all my time on this job. I have chosen to run for Parliament myself, and I have chosen to apply for leave from the city council, so it is completely crazy that I am forced to take three months' pay for a job from which I have taken leave. But I can say that there is some voluntary charity that really likes this leave, because they have been given a small gift. The rules must be changed so that you do not get paid, even if you have taken voluntary leave, there should be no doubt about that. SF is a strong supporter of the content of this proposal, but we also note that the Minister has taken the initiative of a group to look at these conditions for local politicians. That is good, because unfair demands and incomprehensible rules need to be lured into place, but it is not only municipal politicians who work weird rules. This is also the case for regional Council politicians who, for example, have previously had Regional Council Presidents who have had to receive a large salary without being set off against them, even if they had received new work and a new salary. This applies to ministers, and it applies to parliamentary politicians, who also receive excessively high civil servants' pensions. It is completely out of step with the ordinary labour market. This applies to parliamentary politicians who have received an outdated tax-free supplement, and I can continue to give examples of this. There is a need for a comprehensive reform of the salaries and working conditions of politicians, and I believe that this can be done. The SF went to the polls to change the salaries and working conditions of politicians so that they would be transparent and more reasonable. We also raised this point in the intergovernmental negotiations, and now the Socialists and the Left have announced that they are ready to negotiate to change these basic conditions as a whole. The SF is also involved in this work, and in these negotiations we will include some of these proposals. So we cannot support the proposal, which concerns precisely this, because we will not waste the opportunity to change all the foolish rules and opportunities that politicians have today. We need to get started, and we are looking forward to it, and the SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204152	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservative Group. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204203	Thank you for that, President. We are here with motion for a resolution B 31, which we can understand here today at the Minister's meeting will be part of the package, and we at the Conservatives think it is important that we send a signal that this will be part of the package when Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution. It is, of course, a resolution which will certainly be part of the new package, and we at the Conservatives are also ready to join in a new package, but when the resolution is here I have not asked the Enhedslisten to send the motion for a resolution, but that has been done, I will not hide behind the parades that I want to make a big package, but then I will send a signal to the Danes and to the local politicians who feel really bad about this, that this has to change. For what cannot be explained cannot be defended, and this is what gives politicians leadership. This is exactly what makes people out there shake their heads at us. That is why I cannot vote against the Enhedslisten's proposal, which will be part of the package as a whole, and that is why the Members of Parliament here today should simply vote in favour of it. Because that will be part of the package as a whole, and I have no doubt about it at all. You can't pay three months' leave to a politician who gets an alternate in and then say it's okay. No Danes can understand that, and we must not stand here proclaiming that we must continue to do so. No, we do not, and then it is up to the Minister, and I hope that the Minister and the government will be so quick that this bill is put on the table so that what is stated in the motion for a resolution will happen very, very quickly, and the Minister has confirmed today that it will be very fast. Therefore, it would be the right thing to do in relation to this whole package that we are sending out a signal here today that having leave with pay for 3 months is over, that it should end, and that is the signal we are sending on the package as a whole that will be coming shortly. We also need to be aware that we have been discussing this for a long time now, and we have also been involved in discussing it at the Conservatives as far back as 2015. So we have had it many times, and that is why we say to the Conservatives that we support B 31 here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204456	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204515	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think that it is a little absurd that you can get paid under, for example. 3 months' holiday, if you are on a town council, and that is why we are happy to support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to change it this way. But since it does not get a majority when V and S and also Radicals, as far as I understand, are opposed, I am glad that there is a larger solution, a so-called overall package which contains some things that make these leave rules a little more logical. So we are glad that it is being taken care of and that something is on the way. But we would have liked to have supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204608	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204627	It has always puzzled me that one could not avoid or deny this remuneration as a municipal or regional council member when, for example, one was granted a leave to travel or something else. Because it's quite natural that you shouldn't be paid when you take leave for example. to go on holiday or something similar and to be granted it by the municipal council or by the Regional Council. That is why, of course, new citizens also support this motion for a resolution. It's time something was done about these rules. We would like to support the proposal that is here, and we would also really like, if it does not receive a majority, to help to see that these rules are being looked at and changed, because it is not at all linked as it is today. But we support the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204729	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114204736	The Liberal Alliance supports the motion for a resolution, which will clear up a very strange rule we have for the remuneration of municipal and regional councillors in Denmark. The rule is that if you, as a municipal councillor, take voluntary leave to look after something else and call your alternate, both the alternate and the person taking leave are paid while it is on. It will therefore be a double cost for taxpayers, and the person in the municipal or regional council who takes leave will be paid, even if he does not make an effort in local democracy, as the remuneration is otherwise intended. We have had a very, very strange debate here today, primarily on the part of the major municipal parties, the Left and the Social Democrats, who, instead of just voting for a very positive and good proposal, which everyone should agree on is positive and good, use strange arguments that they will not do so, apparently to save their fellow party members in the country, who must have the right to take leave and continue to raise wages, even if others are also on leave. First of all, a few things are said about the fact that since members of the municipal council are required to attend meetings, one cannot compare it to being in the Folketing, which would be an argument for having to have remuneration while not doing one's job. No one understands that context, but it is nevertheless something that is stated in the Minister's speech paper • it is therefore well prepared and thoroughly prepared • and the Minister says this in the speaking chair in full earnest, although no one can understand the argument. Then you say in general terms that there is a difference between being a municipal councillor and being a parliamentarian, so you can't really do this here. So, there is also a difference between being a carpenter and being an electrician, but both groups must then comply with the traffic law, and here we are dealing not with a law that must be observed, but with a moral law or a standard in society: that if you do not do your job, then you should not have your salary. That is something that applies to everyone. Surely it is not the case that you can say that there is a difference between how you work as a municipal councillor and a parliamentarian, so that is why municipal councillors should be paid when they do not do their job. That's something weird to say. I can't believe you can make yourself say this from the platform. I can't believe this. So I cannot see it any other way than that the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which are the main parties which prevent us from doing something sensible here, are making a real fox cake; the two major municipal parties are in the process of making an agreement on how to pay municipal members in the future, and so they do not want other parties in the Folketing to interfere in that. They'll find out for themselves. So when we come here with a motion for a resolution which I almost dare say no one outside the Folketing will vote against, the Liberal and Social Democrats will vote against it anyway, because they will therefore be allowed to manage the remuneration of their municipal members. Neither the Enhedslisten nor the Conservatives nor the Liberal Alliance should interfere in that, because that takes care of the two major municipal parties, and everyone else should just stay out of it. I hope that a great many people have seen this debate because they will get a correct and very bad impression of the Left and the Social Democrats in this matter. If you do not vote for proper remuneration for municipal councillors, who are also reasonable, where you do not receive remuneration when you do not do your job, then it is because you are opposed to proper remuneration for municipal councillors. The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205142	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205144	I have to say I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen provoked me a little here, because I actually think that in this way the Liberal Alliance rapporteur concluded some things that are simply not true. I also said when I stood on the platform: listen to what I am saying. Therefore, if there are a lot of people listening to this debate, I need to say that what was concluded right now is simply not true. Then I hope that those sitting on the screens have seen the whole debate, because I also said, when I stood on the platform, that we in the Left really want to clean this up, and I also said that I believe that it can actually be done better than the resolution we are discussing right now, and I think that is actually fair to say when you stand on the platform. Actually, that's just what I'm trying to make sure that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen had also heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205244	Well, I think we all heard Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who also had no arguments as to why the Left will not vote in favour of this resolution. In other words, if you have a system that is bad and you do not like the payment of remuneration to municipal councillors who do not do their job, then there is really nothing better than abolishing it, and that is what we are voting on today. We are voting to abolish it, so if you think it is bad, you just have to vote in favour. If we cannot vote in favour, we have a problem of explanation, and we have seen during the hour of this debate that the Left and Social Democrats have huge problems of explanation when they stand on the platform and explain why they will not vote for this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205333	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205335	Is it not an honest thing to say that you may not think that this resolution is good enough and that what we think needs to be done can be done in a better way?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205345	Now I say it again: if you think that something is too bad and that it should be changed, that is to say if you think that a system that pays local council members when they do not do their job is bad, then you are voting in favour of abolishing it. Surely there is nothing better than abolishing the system that is bad. What would be better to halve the scheme so that one still has a halved bad scheme? It's no better than removing it completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205417	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205429	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking all the parties that support the proposal. When I look down on the list of party names just like that, it is a little rare alliance, but it makes me extremely happy on behalf of the people's regime that we are so many parties that can see it completely unfair in these rules. This motion for a resolution is, of course, a proposal that we in the Enhedslisten have made before ■ it is quite correct. However, since we put it forward last December 2015, we have seen another series of cases of municipal politicians taking leave of absence, going on vacation, campaigning, yes, there have been many other examples up in the debate, I think. When we last tabled the proposal, we were talking about 80 local politicians. Now, according to a survey of Denmark's Radio, it is 194 politicians who have gone on leave with pay, and have thus taken advantage of this absurd scheme, where you can go on holiday or take further training or make an election campaign to the Danish Parliament on behalf of the taxpayers. The same articles also read that several council members themselves wonder that this is the case; they wonder why they cannot renounce this remuneration. And then it's just that I'm thinking that when local politicians think it's a problem when there's so many parties in here who think it's a problem, shouldn't we just change it? We have that opportunity right now. For me, there is no doubt whatsoever that council members are working hard. One can even discuss whether they are getting enough help to lift the great work. After all, it is a part-time job and they do not have the same opportunity for secretarial assistance that we are privileged to have as members of parliament. I would really like to take part in this debate, because I have no doubt that city council politicians are working very hard. Nor can I doubt that it is quite fair that you can take maternity leave, that you can take leave when you are on sick leave. Of course, it must be possible to do so without hitting the wallet, just like in the Folketing, just like in the ordinary labour market. It is just not fair that city council members have the opportunity to go on vacation for several months, take long training and still raise wages for a job they are not doing. Nobody else does. You don't raise a salary for a job you don't do. It gives me to see completely itself. That's not fair. For me, this isn't about me not having respect for the work of city council politicians. For me, this is about respect for our democracy and for taxpayers' money. This is about showing respect for the many people who work hard every day on their jobs, who pay taxes and who don't have these opportunities. This arrangement to create a greater gulf between elected representatives and those who have to choose them. And I think we should have a fight with that. It creates politicians when you work hard at work every day, pay your taxes to the community with pleasure and then see that there are politicians who can go on diving holidays or go to their home and paint their house or take up further training on the taxpayer's account. It's not okay. Of course, I have also heard in today's debate that we all think this is a problem, and that is why I am surprised that, if you want to do away with this, in the Left, in the Social Democratic Party, in the SF and in the Radical Left, you cannot support this proposal, because then it will be part of the overall package that we all want. We will then work for this in the Enhedslisten, regardless of how the votes fall in relation to this motion for a resolution. I think that is a rather crazy argument. However, I would like to acknowledge and commend the Minister and the Government for wanting to change the rules. I am very excited about how, but after all I would say that this is probably the longest we have come, all the years we in the Enhedslisten have fought for a fight with politicians' privileges and there must be praise for that. We must have a fight with the obvious injustices, and in the Enhedslisten we will be sending this motion for a resolution to the second reading because we would like us to take a vote on it. Because it is incomprehensible to me that we do not think that these totally unfair rules should be brought to an end. However, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205908	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205925	The debate is open and we give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114205941	Thank you. B 39 proposes that the government should take the initiative to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law. The resolution seeks to ensure a greater obligation to take into account the rights of children and to enable children, parents and guardians to raise cases more directly in the courts. It also wants to send a positive signal both nationally and internationally that Denmark will strengthen children's rights on an equal footing with the other Nordic countries. That's how you write, for example. in the motion for a resolution. The best law for children applies. That is what Article 41 of the Children's Convention says, and it can be said that the Government's wishes for children here in Denmark are taken out of that principle. The same can be said of Article 12: We must respect the child's opinion and Article 3: We must do the best for the child. I could continue to mention the many articles of the Convention where we not only agree with the intention, but also that in many places we write our legislation against the good principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention's view of children states that children are in their own right, that they have their own rights, which are not only derived from their parents. It is a view of children that is essential for us, as a society, to be able to put action behind the words that we are always on the side of children. That is why the government also fully agrees with the SF that the rights of children must be guaranteed and that we must work to ensure them even more than is the case today. Our children must always be put first; the right to a good and safe childhood with all that it entails is absolutely crucial. With a clear focus on children, the obvious question is why we do not simply incorporate the children's convention. The answer is not so simple, because at the same time as the children's convention contains a lot of good principles that we are already writing our legislation up today, there is also a risk that the incorporation of the children's convention into our legislation may challenge other good principles in our welfare society. The discussion is not new. In 2012, the former SR government set up a committee, the Human Rights Committee, to assess the consequences of incorporating the Children's Convention into Danish law. In its August 2014 report, the committee pointed out that there may be a risk of a shift of competence from the Folketing and the government to the courts and other public authorities by incorporating international conventions. This is particularly true in relation to the provisions of the Convention on Economic and Social Rights, which are a completely fundamental part of our Danish welfare society, and which we in the government believe it should be entirely up to the elected representatives to decide on the basis of the popular mandate they obtain in a parliamentary election. The displacement lies among other things. In this context, it is necessary to establish a stronger basis for the courts and the authorities to interpret the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the light of, inter alia: statements by the United Nations Committee on Children's Rights. The Committee is set up by the Convention and is responsible for interpreting the application of the Convention in the Member States. The Children's Committee is composed of 18 members from all over the world who do not necessarily know about the Danish welfare system, our culture, traditions and political construction. The lack of understanding and insight is a risk when the Committee can decide whether our actions and legislation are within or outside the scope of the Convention. It cannot therefore be ruled out that incorporation may mean that Danish authorities will lean more closely on the opinions of the Committee on Children's Rights, even if the authorities do not agree with the Committee's interpretation. In this way, it could have major consequences for our national spaces to define our policy, not just in the social and economic field, but for example. also in the field of foreigners. Danish politics is primarily a Danish matter, and incorporation of the Children's Convention must not lead to the politics decided jointly by the Danish Parliament and the government being no longer a national matter. When it comes to the children, we are not going to rest on the laurels. From the outset, the government has placed the children at the top of the agenda, and we have acted. Together with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslist, we have addressed the problems of child poverty. With the 2020 financial law agreement, we have focused on better standards in our day care institutions and strengthening the primary school. Together with a broad circle of parties, we have ensured permanent Christmas aid and summer holiday aid for vulnerable families of children, and we have secured more money to spread leisure passes in the municipalities. We have also agreed on the timetable and framework for ensuring more secure surroundings for children in Soulsmark. They are all important steps towards the goal that Denmark should be the best country to grow up in as a child. But it doesn't do that alone. I have met and spoken to children and young people who have experienced failure, violence and abuse. Stories about how to hide your bruises in kindergarten or have to pick mom up at the bodega don't belong in a child's life. We simply need to do better. We must guarantee children the right to a good childhood; we must take action in the past so that children are not harmed to the lives of, for example, children. We must ensure that the child's voice is heard. In this work, the principles of the children's convention are absolutely crucial. They state precisely that the focus must always be on the rights of children and not the rights of parents. This applies both to the child's best interests, to the child's right to protection and to the child's right to development. The government has just presented the main thrust of a strengthened approach to vulnerable children and young people yesterday. This is a fundamental change in the way we view the child, where we turn the starting point and seriously put the child first. As the Convention states, the child must be in his own right; the child must be heard and listened to, and the child must be able to say no to the adults who do not take care of it. The baby has to be put first. The best law applies to the child, says the convention, and yes, that is the way it should be. Therefore, we will make a completely new child's law that ensures that bets and rights exist for the child, and where it is not the parents that are in focus. It should only be about what is best for the individual child. With the new approach, we will guarantee all children the right to a childhood without neglect. We need to shift our focus so that we take care of the children, and this means that we act consistently in the past in respect of the child and children's life. More children must be placed earlier and more children must be guaranteed stability through adoption away. We need to listen to the child's voice... the child is not the problem... and as a community, we need to take better care of the vulnerable children and ensure them a proper entrance to adult life. We must live up to our international obligations and uphold the generally formulated principles and rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which are enshrined in our own legislation and which constitute a child's view where children are in their very own right. We must continue along this road, and we are now putting the huge magnification down over the enclosure area to ensure that. At the same time, we in Denmark do not have a tradition of incorporating international conventions. We are not obliged to do so either. Therefore, when conventions can already be invoked directly by our courts and authorities, we must think very carefully first. Because we can and must use the proper children's vision of the Convention as a lever in our legislation. We can do this without incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child with the disadvantages it will entail. The government thus supports the intention behind the proposal, but we cannot support the specific resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114210710	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it's from Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114210715	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for highlighting some of the incredibly excellent things that are in the Children's Convention. I am pleased that the government also supports at least parts of the Convention. The first argument used by the Minister is that of what the Human Rights Committee actually said. But it was also the case that out of the 15 members who were, there were 6 who recommended actual incorporation, 4 who did not recommend it, and 5 who failed to take a position because they were appointed by the government. However, some of what they say is of course, and here I quote from the report page 214: these considerations all imply, in the opinion of the committee, a strengthening of children's rights in the areas covered by the UN Convention, in so far as the provisions of the Convention can be enforced in the courts. This, in the view of the committee, is in favour of incorporation. Later on, on page 216, they say that the courts and other judicial authorities have so far exercised restraint over taking such decisions. In other words, it has actually taken a position on this issue and it is not expected that the case law will go against Danish courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114210839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114210841	It will soon be very complex in legal terms, that is to say, the assessment of what the courts want and do not want and what is tradition. Now the SF's rapporteur refers to part of the statement that came from the Human Rights Committee. For me, that is the way it is, and it is something one can also hear in my speech that I believe that the principles of the children's convention are and must be an important lever, not just in Denmark, but indeed in all the countries that have joined it, to ensure that children stand stronger in their own right, and I believe that we can use it for that as it is now. It can be kept up to the disadvantages pointed out by the committee, i.e. that the Convention on the Rights of the Child contains a number of vague and generally formulated provisions, and that such incorporation could thus involve the risk of the courts taking decisions which we in the Folketing and the government in office traditionally have to take at all times. The two things, that is, that we can already use the Child Convention as the lever that I agree with the rapporteur on is positive, and that at the same time we risk a slippery slope if we incorporate it, will mean that I end up with a rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211000	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211001	Thank you. After all, we do not know the content of the child's law, at least not the specific content that the government intends to present. But is it the case that the government has the intention of picking in the convention as such, because there are things in the convention that you like better than others? After all, the idea of incorporating the whole convention should be to have a holistic approach to child and family policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211033	I actually think the rapporteur himself said that I said it myself in my answer here that the Convention on the Rights of the Child contains a number of more vague and generally formulated provisions and is broader. In other words, if it applied strictly to social law, it was one discussion, but it contains broader rights, broader in relation to a number of economic, social and cultural rights, and that is why the children's convention is not just about the current discussion we have in relation to the location area.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211104	Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211107	Thank you. The idea of a child's law sounds very sympathetic, but I have to say that it sounds a little hollow when you stand in the Chamber the next day and do not want to be involved in incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law. Well, the most comprehensive child's law already exists, and that is the children's convention. So it is just to incorporate it, as our Scandinavian neighbours have done. I just need to understand why it is that the government doesn't want to be held up by the courts either... that it will always stand on the side of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211140	As I explained in my speech, we believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child can be a really important lever for what we need to do with the child's law that we turn the starting point on the head, and the starting point is the child in his or her own right and not the child as someone who has derived rights in addition to the parents. And that will be the way to go about it, in other words to strengthen children's rights, to ensure the basic principle of legislation that the child and the child's voice come first in all decisions, to clarify that it is the child for whom the system and the rules are intended and that the child's perspective is the guiding one. And that is, you can say, an idea base that we can also find in the Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211229	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211231	In other words, it can be said with regard to the courts that it is also they who can decide whether the laws that are adopted in here are, for example, in accordance with the constitution, and I certainly do not hear the government being opposed as a principle. So I just find it hard to understand why it is that when it comes to children's rights, we, as Parliament, cannot be stopped by respecting their rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211257	As I also tried to say in my reply to the SF rapporteur, it is of course a question of the child convention being very broad. It is not only a question of very limited political rights, civil rights, but also of economic, social and cultural rights. After all, it is vague and generally formulated. When you look at the welfare model we now have, there is only one concern on the part of the government about the shift we will be able to see from the power of the legislators, in other words us in here, who are taking the basic prioritising decisions on how the Danish welfare society should be organized and then the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211339	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, thank you to the Minister. We are going to the rapporteur's line, and it is first the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211400	There should be no doubt that the Social Democratic Party shares the SF's desire to strengthen the best interests of the child and the safety of children. As a society, we must protect and take care of those who do not always have the opportunity to quit or shout, and that certainly applies to children. Denmark is committed to protecting children and their rights in accordance with the Children's Convention, and therefore it is also continuously assessed whether new legislation complies with Denmark's international obligations, including the Children's Convention. When we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution from the SF, it is because we are concerned about whether there is a shift in the competences of the Folketing in relation to the courts, and we do not want that. This was the conclusion reached by the Committee on Human Rights in 2014, which the Minister also emphasizes in his speech, namely that it could have consequences for the space we have at national level in order to define our policy. This applies not only to social and economic matters but also to foreign affairs, and we continue to believe that it is very important that we have a Danish hand in this matter. We therefore believe that it is not necessary to incorporate the Convention in order to protect the rights of children. As the Minister also said, it is important that we use those parts of the Convention that are good and right with the child vision that is, as a lever for our legislation. We can do this without incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child with the disadvantages it would entail. We do so with the Finance Act when we strengthen the day-to-day offers and ensure better standards, and we have done so historically in the legislation when we have created a low age for work and have ensured that children must not lift too much. We are also doing so with the work we are now setting in motion to help the most vulnerable children, as the Prime Minister also announced in his New Year's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211616	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211621	I must begin by expressing my appreciation of the rapporteur's honesty, and we can, among other things, do so. hearing that part of the reason for not wanting to incorporate the children's convention is that you do not want to grant rights in the area of foreigners to, for example, children of refugees. Is this how it should be understood and what exactly are the rights that the government and the Social Democrats do not want to give these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211644	This is a very broad convention, and for us it is important to say, as the Minister also makes clear, that it is we and the Danish Parliament who decide what rights should be. It is very good and sensible in some other regiments. I understand what the rapporteur is saying, but for us in the Social Democratic Party it has been important to be involved in deciding what kind of rights you have, even when you, for example, are involved. look at the rights of children in different types of families, including some foreign children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211729	Then it's Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211730	It is true that it is a broad convention, and that is because children should not only have few rights. They must have many rights. I also think that what we have heard recently from the government and from the Social Democratic Party is that we have been very pleased that we have moved far in Denmark. Ten or twenty years ago, we were discussing whether it was okay to beat children, and that is where we have come a long way. So I just have to hear again: what is it that the Social Democrats do not want to guarantee the children's right to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211757	The government is going to put forward a child's law, and it is far too early to start pointing out what exactly needs to be done there. What is important to us is to say that the many good measures contained in the Convention on the Rights of the Child can be used as a lever, and this also applies, as the rapporteur himself says, to the question: what is happening in your home in terms of violence to be beaten? But we also have a tradition in Denmark, for example. to look at how it is considered that children work. For many years we have been saying that we do not want child labour, and we have come a very long way over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211842	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211844	Thank you. In fact, I do not think the rapporteur really answered the question put by the rapporteur, because the answer was to what is to be chosen from the children's convention, but the question was of what it is from the children's convention, but what is not the worst thing that could happen by taking the step fully, namely to have all the articles incorporated?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114211912	In other words, we are now standing where we think there are some general rights that we want to be able to decide for ourselves in Denmark and in Danish legislation, and we see that it makes sense that we ourselves have a hand directly on legislation. There are a number of areas in which the Convention makes a great deal of sense, but what should it be like for example. children of foreign families? It is very important for us to retain the right to have a clear and clear law on foreigners, and that is part of it. The same applies to the economic part of it where we also want it to be our hand. Having said that, we also very much appreciate the fact that the SF has put forward this proposal because, as the Minister also says, there are some very good tactics in it, and it is of course important to include it and incorporate it into Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212010	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212012	Well, what is particularly important about the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that it applies to all children, and I have to understand that for social democracy it is not important that the Convention on the Rights of the Child applies to all children. At least that's how I hear it. However, the rapporteur must be impressed by the fact that all children's organisations support the fact that it should be written in and that our Nordic neighbours, most recently Sweden, at the turn of the year, have actually incorporated it. What impression does this leave from the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212046	It is quite clearly important for the Social Democratic Party that we in Denmark define how Danish legislation works. There are many parts of the Convention that make sense, but there are also parts that we believe we should decide and take a position on. Of course it makes an impression when professionals point out that there are good ideas around the world, and there are also some good bars, but it is up to us in the Danish Parliament to decide where we want to go. Having said that, it is also a matter of making a proposal which takes a good and strong lead to doing something for the children, and I look forward to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212132	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212135	Thank you. I'm such a bit of an intern, so I try to reword it all the time inside my head for practical examples. I'm looking for a practical example of this shift of power. In other words, can the rapporteur give us an example of how we could envisage safeguarding the rights of some children in the courts in a different way than we would have done in the Folketing and thereby, what can be said, we lose our grip on power?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212207	In fact, I do not think it is up to me to give specific examples, but I appreciate that you are quite specific and a concrete person of thought. I think it is essential to retain the right to make Danish legislation in Denmark and to use the good ideas there are. And there I would say, as I have also given several examples from a specific angle, that Denmark has been trying for a very, very many years to ensure that children do not have to work, and that if you are young, there are very clear and clear rules as to what it is possible to do in your infancy work. Therefore, we have both very strong experiences and practices about it when a young person is going out to do youth work. And it is quite, quite specific, where you can see that there has been an international input, but of course also that Danish law and the Danish way of doing things are incorporated into international ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212310	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212312	Well, thank you for an example. I think I heard the rapporteur say something that makes me ask this question: does the rapporteur think that children of foreign families or children have the same rights as Danish children? Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212335	I must admit that I did not quite understand the question put by the questioner, what do you do? That fg. President You must answer what you can). Okay. So, as I understand it, the questioner says, there is something where it is quite clear to the Social Democratic Party that it is Danish legislation and the Danish Parliament that decides what rights you have and that is essential for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212406	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we proceed in the rapporteur's line, and that is to the rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212414	Thank you. First of all, I would like to start by thanking the SF for focusing on children's rights. And with the motion for a resolution which we are debating here today and which the SF has tabled, it is a re-submission of a previous motion for a resolution. It is a resolution which we in the Left did not support last time, and I can then reveal that we are not going to come to this time either. So we haven't changed our attitude in this area. With the proposal, the SF will require the government to submit a bill on the incorporation of the UN Children's Convention into Danish law before the end of this parliamentary year. The authors believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been well followed up over the last many years and that a number of good child-policy initiatives have been adopted. At the same time, however, SF would like to see full incorporation of the Children's Convention into Danish law. SF justifies this, among other things. that it will have a strong signal value and that children, parents and guardians can invoke the Children's Convention in Danish courts. But in the Left we are actually concerned that there will be more disadvantages than there will be benefits from this resolution. We are already under an obligation to protect children and safeguard their rights in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Moreover, it is already possible to invoke the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the courts and other public authorities. And that wouldn't change if we put in the bill that was required. The Left is concerned that if we incorporate the Convention into Danish legislation, it will cause some disadvantages, and we are among others. particularly concerned about the shift of competences from the Folketing and government to the courts and other public authorities. This is a resolution which has been retabled, and all in all I think it is good to have this discussion on children's rights. However, as I have also said at the outset, the Left has not changed its position in this area, which is why we will not be supporting the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212652	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212656	Thank you. I would just like to highlight, for the sake of good order, some of the things that actually stand in it: respect and guarantee the rights of all children; that the best interests of the child must always be taken first; that parents' responsibilities, rights and duties must be respected; and that separation from parents must only take place if it is in the interests of the child and so on. etc. I could keep mentioning very good intentions. I find it rather difficult to see what kind of situation this situation is in which the child's rights would be invoked in the courts and which could appear to be a disadvantage. So, could the rapporteur say what is the worst that could happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212744	I can tell you that I have actually also discussed this with some of those in the Confederal Group of the European United Left who, frankly, know a great deal about the courts and, for that matter, about law. And what they are worried about when I tell them about this motion for a resolution is simply that you want to shift the competences you really want to remove the opportunities we have here in Parliament and here at Christiansborg to ensure good Danish legislation. And what they are saying is: No, we simply should not incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child; we would shift competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212824	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212826	There are two conventions which the Committee on Human Rights actually highlights as some where it is obvious to do so. It is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and it is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And the reason is that these are people who are vulnerable and particularly vulnerable to exploitation, abuse and so on, both by the authorities and also by others. So it is a special need for protection that they have. Can the rapporteur follow that explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212858	Well, I can easily follow that reasoning. But I must also say that I think it is indeed our duty here in the Danish Parliament to ensure that these things become part of our legislation. In fact, I think it is very important that we parliamentary politicians have, I do not know if you can call it the hand on the hot plate, but that it is we who have to take these decisions and that we do not push it over to the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212927	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114212935	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we are in favour of democracy, we are in favour of the Folketing adopting the laws that work in Denmark. We are very sceptical about international conventions, especially international conventions, which do not have a sunset clause, and not many have. We believe that this should be added to conventions if we wish to accede to them, because otherwise, conventions will put democracy out of effect. And that is what the children's convention, if we incorporated it, would do: then it is no longer we who have passed laws and can abolish them again. If we want the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to work in Denmark, we must table separate resolutions in those areas where we want the relevant laws to be amended towards the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Then you have to put it in the Chamber and then we can discuss it one at a time and take a stand for or against it, and then, when you have tried that legislation and may have seen that it does not work, you can change it again. That would be our approach to it. So we cannot support a proposal to incorporate the Children's Convention, but we would urge the SF itself to table resolutions in those areas where Danish legislation is wanted to be amended in this direction, and then we can take a position on the issues in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213115	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213120	But now part of the intention is actually to try to review our legislation for where it is actually relevant to have it incorporated into the legislation. So where is it that makes sense? After all, we have not decided with this motion for a resolution how the law should be amended. After all, the Folketing still has to decide on any changes in the law it may bring about. So you get that opportunity one more time, you might say. So I still have a little difficulty in fully understanding what could happen by going through our legislation to see where it is, it is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and thus we are also taking a position on what legislation should look like if we were to live up to the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213205	Well it is perfectly free to do so every day, so look at the legislation we have in Denmark and see what you are satisfied with and what you are unhappy with. And where you are unhappy, you can freely table the motions for resolutions that you want. So it's just a matter of getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213221	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213233	Yes, of course you could do that. Now I am not sitting with an entirely civil servant who can sit and make legislative proposals for me, unfortunately, so that is why we, among others, are doing this. the motion for a resolution instructs the government to try to do that work. But I would like to ask: I know that at least the Danish People's Party's social rapporteur is very concerned about the separation of children from their parents, and that is one of them. Some of what the Convention, what can be said, is trying to ensure that it can only happen if it is in the best interests of the child and that it is also obliged to ensure that there is contact between children and their parents. Would this be the kind of point that the Danish People's Party could see as a reason to write the convention into Danish law?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213317	In any case, we do not want to sign the convention. However, we are very concerned about the announcements made by the government that there will be the number of placements and adoptions, etc. increased. We think this is a scary way of thinking, and we want to fight it. But the initiative for legislation must come from below. It must be something that one feels a need for in the Danish population, then comes up in the Folketing, where one then puts it. It should not be something dreamed of in the United Nations or in some court or in another international convention which may not have any relevance to us in Denmark. It must come from below, and that is why I think it would be an excellent idea for the SF's rapporteur to table motions for resolutions in all these areas to which the Convention on the Rights of the Child relates if one feels that it is relevant if there is a need for it from below in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213407	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213415	For Radical Left, the children come first. Children are children with all the rights and all the protection that comes with it. And the children's convention protects the right of all children to be seen and heard; it guarantees their right to protection and co-determination; it stresses that all children are unique and that we must see the individual child and not just see the children as a single group, whether they are children or children of refugees. And by entering the Children's Convention into Danish law, we can make sure that the best interests of the child are always at the heart, that children are always heard in matters that concern them. This will also mean that more children become aware of their rights, because it is clear that children need to know their rights in order to know whether they are being violated. Unfortunately, it is not always the case that they know these rights today, either in matters of violence in the family or when children are placed outside the home and in other important decisions concerning the child. At the same time, signing the Convention on the Rights of the Child will also be an important signal to the outside world. The UN Children's Committee has several times called on Denmark to sign up to the convention, and in the Nordic neighbouring countries they have already decided to take the step and get the convention into law, most recently in Sweden. I myself was in New York to the United Nations General Assembly when Sweden's Prime Minister spoke about the resolution for an event celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Convention, and this led to huge applause from the Chamber. And then, as a Danish parliamentarian, we are annoyed that we are not following suit here. But will it make a concrete difference for children to get the convention into law? Yes, it will, not least for the children who are today trapped in a foreign policy game. This applies, among other things, to: children of asylum seekers. Here several organisations have pointed out that the conditions in Soulsmark were against the child's best interests and the right to education and opposed the intentions of the Children's Convention. Had we incorporated it into Danish legislation, we would have given the children on Zealand stronger cards on hand to fight for their rights. The same applies to children with Danish citizenship who today have no right to live with their parents if one of them is a foreigner. Today they have to prove that they are related to Denmark, and they have to wait 3 years before they can apply for family reunification. And this has been criticised by the Institute for Human Rights for also violating the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is as if there are a number of parties that seem to forget that the best interests of the child should always come first. However, by including the children's convention in Danish legislation, we have the opportunity to show that we will always be on the side of the children, all of which is why we in the Radical Left warmly support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213720	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, who now has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213729	Thank you, and thank you, Mrs Sophie Callesen, for illustrating so well why we should not vote in favour of this resolution. Mrs Sophie Callesen mentions herself • I cannot assess whether that is true, but that is what Mrs Sophie Callesen said • that the broad, broad majority which believes that the conditions at Soulsmark Kaser are as they should be, according to Mrs Sophie Callesen, would have challenges in pursuing her policy if Denmark had incorporated the Children's Convention into Danish law. This explains to Mrs Sophie Callesen that what this resolution is for is forcing Denmark to pursue a certain policy for which there is no majority in Denmark. We all have our arguments that we mean one, the other or the third, for example. Soulsmark The Kaser, but Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen belongs to a minority that believes that what is happening there is very terrible. She cannot get a majority in the Folketing, so now she wants the UN to ensure that Denmark conducts the policy of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213841	Yes, it is quite right that we want the rights of children to be safeguarded and that a majority cannot simply trample them underfoot.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213850	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213852	I don't think that's gonna work. After all, we all believe that the rights of children must be guaranteed. We just disagree about what children's rights are and whether children's rights are being violated, for example. Soulsmark The Kaser. What the rest of us are doing is arguing for our cause. In LA we might think that it was a breach of a human right to have a tax burden of more than 50%, but we are not trying to get the international community to knock Denmark down, since there is now a broad majority in Denmark that thinks that we should then pay a good many taxes. I think the Radical Left should stick to arguing here in the Folketing instead of appealing to the international community to see to it that the Radical Left policy in Denmark is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213941	But there is, of course, the important difference that it is not a violation of human rights that you pay taxes. So I do not think we are going to go much further than I have to say that there are some rights for children, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen doesn't want them to be secured.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114213958	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214011	The children's convention already applies in Denmark today. Denmark has acceded to the Convention and we have committed ourselves as a state, as a country, as a society, that the rights described in the Convention on the Rights of the Child will be respected when we make legislation when we put it into practice when decisions are made when we set up schools, in other words in everything. So we are already committed to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and so it is no longer than that. Then the question is whether we want to incorporate it, and it is not a question of whether we think that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should apply or not, because it does, and perhaps it is thought that Denmark should withdraw from that convention and there are certainly some people in here who think that it is just not what is being debated today. What is under discussion is whether we should incorporate it into Danish law, i.e. whether we should incorporate it into Danish law. In practice, children are allowed to go to the courts if they do not believe that the Folketing, the municipalities or others who make decisions about their lives, well and well, do not comply with what the adults in this case have promised to comply with. I think this is very interesting, because it is, of course, to give children a genuine right, even in practice. So I really do not understand the counter-argument that this was supposed to be a democratic intervention and everything else. Yes, of course it is a valid consideration, and of course you have to think about it, but I also think that this is a question of giving the children an opportunity to actually force us adults too if you have to say it a little banal to do what we have already promised we would do. That's why I don't really see the problem. The funny thing about human rights is that they are universal. So this is not something we think it is something we have committed ourselves to in international conventions, and thus also something that we have committed the Danish Parliament to comply with. We have set limits on what a majority must do about minorities. In this case of the Children's Convention, we have set limits on what to do with children and what rights to give children. This may well be a bad thing, but the whole concept of them and the whole historical background to why we in Europe decided to make them is that the majority sometimes do something about the minority, which is scary and wrong, even if they are the majority. So you can't just think that tax is a violation of human rights... it's not. The Children's Convention provides for some rights to protect children from discrimination, including: to protect children from being punished or discriminated against because of what their parents think or believe. It gives children the right to have their own identity and citizenship; it gives children the right to have freedom of expression and to mean things and to influence their own lives. After all, these are very good rights. I don't think this is coming as a news for SF, who has made this proposal a lot of times and it's been done by so many of you, because Enhedslisten has supported it every time SF has put it forward, and I think it's good to get it back on the agenda. I will look forward to voting for it again, and I will look forward even more to the day when we may get a majority in favour of it, and I think, particularly after the debate that has been on top of the Prime Minister's New Year speech and much more about some of the most vulnerable children in our society, that it is a really relevant proposal to take up again in the Parliamentary Assembly. To give those children, for example. I think it would be a great idea to place their rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the legislation we have made in this House. So thank you to the SF. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214511	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214515	Well, now that Mrs Pernille Skipper is interfering with the human rights convention, I just think it would be appropriate for Mrs Pernille Skipper to admit that if the human rights of children are violated, they can take legal action in Danish courts. If they fail, they can go all the way to the European Court of Human Rights. So that's not what this is about. This is about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, whereas human rights are quite a different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214546	But when it is a relevant comparison, it is because these are treaties to which Denmark has acceded. That means that these are rights that apply. These are rights that we have an obligation to respect as a state and as a parliament. And we are violating those obligations if we are not able to implement legislation that actually complies with the Children's Convention. That is why, of course, it is relevant to allow us to be tested on it, in other words to allow children to go to the courts. When Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says, as he does, that the Convention on Human Rights has been incorporated into Danish law, and that experts have recommended that we incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because the two groups are particularly vulnerable to both interference and abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214631	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214633	You can find experts who think all sorts of things. And I am sure you can also find some experts who are Communists and whom Mrs Pernille Skipper can rely on. However, human rights also apply to children, which means that children can be allowed to take legal action if their human rights are violated. What Mrs Pernille Skipper and the authors of the motion here are in favour of is that children should have something more than human rights; they should also have children's rights. And that is just not the same as human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214707	I'm confused about sir. Ole Birk Olesen's argument here. So it is quite true that there is a difference between the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on Human Rights, but it is of course conventions that Denmark has signed up to. So if sir... Ole Birk Olesen does not believe that the children should have the rights set out in the Children's Convention, in addition to the human rights interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights, then the Liberal Alliance must put forward a proposal that Denmark should withdraw from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Well, the kids have these rights. What we are talking about is whether they can be allowed to demand them. And especially because they are children who often do not have the big voice, we should incorporate this particular convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214754	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not immediately see anyone from the Conservative People's Party, so we move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214801	Thank you. It is actually a hugely exciting debate to follow for a new child rapporteur, and fortunately the degree of detail is great, so I'm just getting smarter. With regard to the proposal itself, we support it. As I see it, the children's convention is terrific legislation that protects children and safeguards their rights and works 100% on the basis of the child's best interests. I do not really see any proper concrete examples of that misuse of power. Well, what are we in danger of not being in control of? What is it that we risk not deciding for ourselves when we lean on a piece of legislation or a convention that is so strong, so good and so clear? Okay, there may be some vague points, but I think all in all that is excellent legislation. If it is now the case that there is, I would not call it a misuse of power, but that some of the responsibility or the law goes out of our hands, it will in fact, as far as I can see, be in favour of the children, because the court must defend an excellent convention. So we have no problem supporting this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214947	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114214957	I think we can all agree that the child's best interests are extremely important. Rights are taken into account when legislating, for the Danes in general, but also for the children in Denmark, and this is thought about today's offers and in schools, and Danish families take children's rights seriously, and that is of course positive and really, really important. However, to go further and fully incorporate the UN Children's Convention into Danish law is a mistake. It's the wrong way to go. We simply do not need any more international conventions in Danish law, we need much, much less. In Denmark, Danish politicians make the country's laws, and that is how it should continue to be, and that is why we cannot, of course, support this resolution either. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do not support the resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215102	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215109	There is probably nowhere else in the world where children's rights are more respected than in Denmark and other Western countries. So the very idea that children have rights in themselves, rights beyond the rights that their parents have, and also rights that can go against parents, is a Western liberal way of thinking which we practice quite well in Denmark and other countries similar to us, while in other parts of the world every day the rights that children have and should have, qua that they are people, are ignored. So the idea that we should let international courts, international bodies, which are largely governed by countries that cannot figure out how to protect children's rights, as we see them in Denmark, decide whether children have the right rights in Denmark, where children have the most rights in the world, I and the Liberal Alliance simply cannot accept. We are in favour of international cooperation and, in some cases, also international supranational authority, especially within the European Union, when there are problems that may have cross-border effects. For example, it will. say that we think it is a very good idea, on issues of pollution that do not know national borders, to make binding rules internationally, in the context of the European Union and elsewhere where it is decided internationally that countries should do certain things, or that countries should not decide things because they suffer from neighbouring countries. But when it comes to things that do not have cross-border effects, we think that we should be very careful to let the big world decide what is going on in Denmark, because it is our general view that in Denmark we have better control of things than they have in the big world, and therefore we risk that what is determined makes Denmark worse instead of making Denmark better. I think it was very significant when the radical rapporteur was here on the platform and said that she thought that if Denmark had incorporated the Children's Convention into Danish law, the children would be able to go to first the Danish courts and later international bodies and claim and maybe even get a say in it, it was understood that the children at the Zealand Kaserne in Denmark, which is an exit centre for people who have been rejected their asylum case, would be badly treated, and then the large, broad majority in the Folketing, who believes that things are as they should be in the Soulsmark Kaserne, would be told internationally that it should be changed. I think it is very significant that this is the idea behind it, so that things which in Denmark are a broad majority in favour are the best possible solution, because it is not radical policy that the international community instructs Denmark to change. I think that we should fight with open foreheads for our views here in the Folketing. This also applies to people who are opposed to our foreign policy, which means that we must argue in favour of what must be argued in democratic elections, and we must try to convince the Danish people that a different policy must be pursued, and if we then obtain a majority in favour of it, we can change the policy here in the Folketing. So with that argument we are voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215527	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. And the first one is from Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215529	Thank you. I simply have a little doubt as to whether the Liberal Alliance is fully aware of what it is, which means incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law. In 2015, Denmark joined and I just sat down trying to google it, but couldn't see if the Liberal Alliance voted in favour of the additional protocol, which means that you can complain to the UN if you've been through the Danish system etc. And that also means that the UN Children's Committee can carry out investigations of its own motion in Denmark. It's already happened. When we talk about incorporating the Convention into Danish law, we are talking about going to Danish courts, so not supranational courts, to interpret whether or not one's rights under the Convention have been respected. Is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen still against the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215636	Yes, and no matter how much Mrs. Pernille Skipper plays plays and says the words very slowly etc., the Liberal Alliance is still opposed to this proposal. And the argument is that where it is up to the Folketing today to assess the extent to which Denmark complies or fails to comply with the children's convention that we have acceded to as a country, that is to say, it is a political decision, this proposal will make it a matter for the courts whether Danish law is in line with the often airy principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where the possibilities of interpretation are enormous. This gives the courts a political power in Denmark because they can interpret both one way and the other in the airy principles which form the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And if there is to be political power in Denmark, it is the Folketing that must have it, and not the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215736	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215739	Okay, thanks. It just wasn't exactly that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen spoke in his rapporteur's speech. But it's fine. I would like to say two things about this: 1) The content of the Convention on the Rights of the Child can already be complained about to international bodies. Is the Liberal Alliance opposed to the accession of Denmark to the additional protocol which allows a complaint to be made to the United Nations? 2) If it is opposed to courts interpreting Danish legislation's compliance with international conventions, does the Liberal Alliance believe that Denmark should no longer have incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law? So, is it a principle that no international conventions must be incorporated into Danish law and thus be applicable Danish law, which the courts must interpret, or is it only the children's convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215832	We do not think that the European Convention on Human Rights is as airy as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is. We believe that it is an expression of principles which we can also rediscover to a very large extent in the Danish constitution. And the fact that Denmark is there and has incorporated it into Danish law has proved to make a good contribution to Denmark's handling of human rights issues in a positive and good way. Children are covered by human rights and therefore children are also safe from the fact that this applies to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215911	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215914	Okay, I'm having a little trouble seeing the difference between the airy human rights and the children's convention. On the contrary, I would say that it is almost more concrete in the children's convention. But just to make it clear, what does the Liberal Alliance think about the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Because we do have that many, many years ago. Is it a convention whose entire content the Liberal Alliance supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114215942	We have no wish that we should step out, that is, that we should derat the children's convention in relation to Danish politics. We are very confident about the way this is happening now, and we do not think that it has had any negative consequences for Danish politics. We are confident that it is ultimately up to the Folketing to assess how Denmark should comply with the Children's Convention. Because it is a political issue, and it is a very airy convention, which contains many elements of a very airy nature, and therefore one will inevitably become political if one starts to assess whether Denmark is living up to it or not. And if you are political, it is something that must take place here in the Folketing and not in the court.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220023	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220025	But I suppose we are obliged to take a position on that already. We are surely obliged, in ratifying it, to take a position on how our legislation is linked to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What this proposal is all about is, of course, giving children more rights and obliging adult people to think about children's rights when making decisions on behalf of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220054	No, I believe that what this motion for a resolution is proposing is that the assessment of whether Denmark is fulfilling our obligations under the children's convention that we have signed and acceded to today lies in the Folketing, but that if we adopt this resolution and the government implement the resolution, it will be the court that will make it, in my opinion, political assessment of whether we comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220125	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220130	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. In such a late evening hour, it is still good to give the children some attention, and it is nice to see that the Assembly Hall can still live up when we talk about it. Of course, a special thanks to both the Radicals and the Enhedslisten and the alternative for supporting the proposal. That's what I expected, because that's what you guys usually do. One might ask: why do we actually keep making this proposal, since we have done it so many times before? Well, we do, because we were actually hoping that we could get the government and social democracy with this one too. Precisely because the focus of the government and the Social Democrats are so strong on the children, we had hoped that all sorts of doubts would be ignored as to whether our courts are judging in one way or another on this issue, because one would put the children first and one would consider what consequences it could have and what the worst that could actually happen was. I mean, we have been fighting for this for a long time, and I am still wondering why a majority will not back on strengthening children's rights. This is really about a lot. We have actually mentioned only a few parts of the legislation that would be affected by the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Because that's a lot of things. And it is, in fact, as much the process of incorporation as I think is important, because it will mean that we review our legislation in all the places where children are affected by it, to see if we really guarantee children's rights, whether we ensure that when adults make decisions about how the school should be organized and how children's environments should be in day care etc. etc., then they need to think about how it will affect children. Of course, it is also the case that incorporation does not just solve all the challenges that children face today. If there is also an argument about it being a vague convention and so on, then it is clear that more content needs to be added to it. It is not the case that the children's convention would suddenly have to replace all kinds of Danish legislation. It just needs to form a completely parallel part of the legislation that we have at the moment. It is also to emphasise that children are, as such, independent legal objects with their very own rights, and it is to strengthen that it is precisely the focus of the child's best interests in all laws that are at the top. Then, of course, we discussed a number of things today, just as we did the last time we dealt with it, with the concerns about how it would shift power, etc. But the Committee on Human Rights has already taken a position on this. I am well aware that it was not a unanimous Committee on Human Rights but, after all, a majority of those who voted in committee recommended that this convention be incorporated. I also think it should be quite clear that when all child organisations strongly recommend that we do so here, it is because they can well see that if we are to safeguard children's rights, it is not a matter of extracting individual parts from the Convention and thinking it every once in a while when we make changes to the legislation. Because we've done that. After all, we have done so when we introduced new legislation in the area of family law. At that time, we carefully leaned against the Convention on the Rights of the Child in some of the provisions we made. There are also quite a lot of parts of the Children's Reform, which, as such, contain elements of the Children's Convention that children should be heard and involved and that the child's best interests should be at the top. So we're gonna do it. It is absolutely right that we can do it in this way, but doing it as a whole also means giving us a holistic look at our children's and family policy and how it really is connected. Some of the concerns that have also been raised here today have also been concerns that they had in the Nordic countries around us before they incorporated the Convention on the Rights of the Child into their law. Nevertheless, they have done so anyway. This is where I am thinking: should we not really be a Nordic welfare society with all the resources we have, leading the way and actually sending out a rather strong signal to the outside world that this is an important convention? Because if we as a privileged country can think that ah, it's probably not that important, and ah, we don't have to, because we know best even in our own country, how could we ever expect the world around us to take that convention seriously? Everything else must be equal to those countries which are best placed to incorporate the Convention, which is at the forefront of doing so. Of course, as I mentioned in some of my questions, the Committee on Human Rights has already recommended that it be the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which should be incorporated as the first conventions, because they concern groups which particularly need us to strengthen their rights; that they have the possibility of really testing whether rights are being respected. It is therefore a question of children who depend on the adults to make the right decisions. So this is the best way to strengthen the legal certainty of children, namely to incorporate it. But, of course, I take note of the fact that there is no majority in the Chamber. I cannot promise that we will not bring it up again, because I think it is an important debate, and I think it really deserves to be taken with examples other than only vulnerable children and placements and the question of foreigners. Because this is just one of the things I wanted to say, because I thought it might be that I got the question... isn't about foreign policy, it's about children. It is about all children, and that is what is the strength of the children's convention, namely that it does not sort out children. It talks about the rights of children, and that is what is essential about it. Moreover, it comes incredibly well and widely around what protection needs and inclusion needs are, in fact, democratic needs that children have. So thank you so much for sticking around and sticking around so late in the night. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220925	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200114220939	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 15 January 2020, at 3 pm. 13.00 I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
