ParlaMint-DK_20200331160004	The meeting is open. The Committee on Health and the Elderly has still not submitted a report on L 158 and I shall therefore postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 18.30.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331183004	The sitting is resumed. The Committee on Health and the Elderly has still not submitted a report on L 158, but I know that they are holding a meeting right now. I shall therefore postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 8:30 tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331203003	The sitting is resumed. It is the case that the report by the Committee on Health and the Elderly on L 158 has still not been published, but I can tell you that it is being intensively worked on. That is why I have to postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 9:30.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331213005	The sitting is resumed. The L 158 report by the Committee on Health and the Elderly has still not been published, but it is close. That is why I have to postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 10:00.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220104	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220110	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220125	Amendments have been tabled. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220143	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the committee for a very constructive, very thorough and, of course, very fast work throughout the situation of the epidemic in Denmark, but especially in relation to this bill, where we have had both negotiations, technical reviews, consultations and 187 written questions to which answers have been provided. So thank you for a constructive and thorough approach to this. For the sake of good order, I also need to make a few comments on one of the amendments, namely that of the Danish People's Party, which deals with cross-border workers. The government fully recognises the need to look at how to prevent infection from crossing borders via workers who are not resident in this country. The government is therefore, like the proposers of this proposal, committed to reaching a solution. But the problem is not uncomplicated. It contains many elements. Health is one of those areas of employment, for example. another axis of the question. So the matter deserves its own course, and I understand that the committee agrees with that. The government will therefore very soon discuss the issue with the parties in a different direction from the negotiations on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220311	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Martin Geertsen also wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220319	Thank you for that, and thank you to fellow rapporteurs and thank you to the Minister for a few hectic days at the appropriate distance in dealing with the government's proposal for a second emergency health law in connection with the corona crisis. I shall not hide the fact that it has been extremely difficult for the Left to add votes to this second round of mandates to the Minister for Health, partly because once again we have very, very far-reaching powers to the Minister and partly because of the substance of the powers which the Minister is now entrusted with. But most of all, I think it seems strange to many people that the government, on the one hand, as the Prime Minister did yesterday, says to the Danish people that now we just have to go over Easter like that, and then we can start relaxing the restrictions again, while on the other hand it sits at Christiansborg and adopts further tightenings. However, we would like to acknowledge that in the work we have been through in the past 3-4 days the government has moved on a number of fields. Firstly, it has now been established with a seven-inch sentence that it requires a warrant if and when the police penetrate private homes, even if there are suspicions of the so-called coronafesters. Secondly, we would like to acknowledge the fact that the government is moving in relation to the personalities, which will therefore not be covered by the possible exploitation of further restrictions on the freedom of assembly. We find it quite logical that grandparents can be with their grandchildren and that bonus children and foster children are also exempt from restrictions. Thirdly, as you know, the government has also, as we may well call it, a massive pressure on all sides of the Folketing, in relation to the question of when a possible further restriction of the freedom of assembly of as many as two persons can be activated. The government is now proposing that this should be done with advice from the authorities, and it is for us to see better than nothing. But precisely in view of the fact that the government, led by the Prime Minister yesterday, explained to the Danes that we can now see light at the end of the tunnel, it is essential that there should be a direct link between the attitude of the authorities and the actions of the government. That is why, at second reading, we are proposing that the government's amendments be tightened up so that further restrictions on the freedom of assembly of the Danes can only be made on a firm recommendation from the authorities, including the health authorities. We have that, at least if I can read the political map quite correctly, an expectation of being voted down, and once it has been, we will support the government's amendments and also the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220617	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331220625	Thank you for that, President. Huge huge success that the basket is flattened out. The words came at yesterday's press conference in the Prime Minister's Office, where the Prime Minister once again informed the public about the covid-19 situation together with among others. the health minister, the police and health authorities. And how gratifying it is that the crisis, which is both health and economic, does not appear to be the horror scenario that we see in many other countries, where thousands die daily, and where the carts have been replaced with the military trucks, which carry the dead for long lengths to burial places. Because that is what we looked into when we adopted the L 133 of the government almost three weeks ago, with the severe tightenings and far-reaching consequences that it entailed. It is a question of the power to vaccinate and treat citizens by coercion if they oppose it. We gave the government the power to restrict the freedom of assembly, which also happened. The schools and day care centres are closed and the nursing homes are closed to visitors, just as the homes and institutions for mentally ill, demented and disabled are closed to visitors. The companies have sent the employees home, the Danish Parliament is on emergency alert, and that is how it can continue. The restrictions that were and are necessary were and now it appears that the measures have had the desired effect. When we dealt with and adopted the tightenings via L 133, the fear was that we should reach as much as 450 newly installed corona patients every day. The figure is currently less than 100. We feared that up to 1,500 intensive beds would be needed, but we currently use less than 200. Yes, there was almost panic among the population and among politicians, because these were the horror scenarios that the health authorities presented to us. When yesterday's press conference, in which we got an insight into how well it has gone with restricting covid-19 in Denmark, and where we got an insight into the health and economic and employment consequences that it would have had if things had gone worse, was over, I thought: Now perhaps the Minister will now withdraw some of the new restrictions or at least remove the most far-reaching restrictions in the draft law we are discussing today, or perhaps the Minister will leave some room for democracy, to the Folketing, whose main task is to exercise democratic control over the government. Perhaps the Minister would follow our wishes in the Conservative People's Party to have a majority in the Folketing decide on an informed basis which tools should be used and how they should be used. After all, with the bill, the Minister demands a carte blanche, i.e. a blank cheque, to introduce far-reaching, further tightening of citizens' freedom of assembly and behaviour until the beginning of March 2021. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party do not want to prevent the government from doing what it needs to do in order to combat covid-19, but it is therefore very far-reaching powers that we have already given to the Minister. Now we would like to put our foot down and ask that we wait with more austerity until there is a clear justification and then, together with the government, find some good solutions. What the government is proposing is far, far beyond what I had imagined we would ever be introducing in Denmark, and therefore we have also sought the assent of the Danish Parliament to amendments which hold up the competence to introduce more restrictions in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. After all, if there were support for it, virtually and at very short notice, together with the Minister, we would be able to take the necessary steps quickly. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, we support the government's legislative proposal, even if we do not get our amendments adopted, but I would like to make a clear appeal to the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament that we need democratic control precisely by such extensive powers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221133	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221136	Thank you for your speech and also for the proposal, which has been incorporated into another amendment just in a different version. But I just want to ask the rapporteur something. I do not really think that is what the rapporteur wanted, but it almost sounded as if the rapporteur were canceling the crisis, and I suppose that was not what the Prime Minister and the health authorities said yesterday. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees with me that what the health authorities are saying is that we still have to be on guard. Actually, we don't know how the curve develops. It looks positive, but we do not actually yet have a hundred percent assurance that things will not go wrong. So there's reason to be really careful for a while longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221222	I fully agree with the rapporteur that there is no reason to let go of the reins. We still need to be careful. We still need to stop gathering. We still have to go wash our hands and take care of each other. However, we also saw a press conference where, after all, evidence could be provided that the curve had a completely different slope from the horror scenario, which we were actually promised as the worst case scenario just over three weeks ago. So there is cause for joy and a certain degree of optimism. That is why I do not think there is any need to equip the government with more tools to tighten up, because there is simply no reason, as I see it, to do so. And then again the most important thing: I simply think it is a bad idea just to stick out so far-reaching powers to the government. I think that there must be some form of democratic control, and that is why we have put forward the proposal that it should be anchored in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly so that we can control it.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221328	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221341	Thank you for that, President. I'm gonna have to lower this table a little bit. The Danish People's Party would like to stress that it is the Government's wish to have additional powers to have further measures in the toolbox to limit the spread of coronasmitte. It is therefore the government which must also take full responsibility and face the consequences of applying additional measures using these powers. This bill is quite far-reaching and we in the committee have worked hard to accommodate the Minister for Health in that we could vote it through here today. But we also have some concerns in the Danish People's Party. We do not really feel that we have had a proper answer to the camping situation. We have not really received proper answers to anything else either. Now that you're asking for these powers, what kind of people are you going to use now and here? But the Minister then says that you don't want to use someone now and here, that's what time has to say. And then it also gives a signal confusion, because yesterday at the Prime Minister's press conference we were talking about opening up, and at the same time we have to rush through this bill. In the Danish People's Party we think it is important that we have a committee procedure, and if there is a wish to continue it, we fully support it, because it is important that we get the answers we are asking for. I would also like to say that I would like to sign with the Minister in relation to the foreign workers. Because it is the case that the Danish People's Party has tabled three amendments, among others. on closing the borders of asylum seekers, but also in relation to foreign workers. There I sense a sympathy from the Minister who would like to discuss it further. Our amendments will be put to the vote, so I just think that the Minister should vote for it and that the government should vote for it. But we have some follow-up, and what we are calling for from the Minister is: why do we have to rush this through so quickly when the minister does not think that these powers are needed right now? And then there's the camping. We simply cannot find out the answers given by the Minister to the question of compensation for seats. Are they covered if you choose to use the powers you also get? We therefore give full support to this if the Minister will provide a clear answer to how and how the Minister listens? So, how are the companies covered? Are they fully covered, the campsites? And then it could be fine if the minister from the platform said what powers you think you need to put in place now. We in the Danish People's Party also want to take care of the Danes, and we also want to help the government to support what the government needs, precisely in terms of containing the infection, but of course we also need it to be done in a proper way. After all, it is no secret that the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly has been under enormous pressure. I would also like to say from the platform that we do not have the same tools in the toolbox as the Minister, so we do not have an entirely official or committee secretary or anything else to print out our amendments, because many have been sent home. So it's just to say that we're working under some other conditions. I hope the Minister will understand that too. So we are ready to discuss this further and, of course, we would like the Minister to give a clearer answer to what we have asked for with regard to the campsites. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221750	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331221758	First of all, I want to say that I know we all work hard, and we all want to make the best of all of us who stand here. And this is an exceptional situation that we are in, and we are all working under pressure. However, precisely because we are working under pressure, it is extremely important that we remember who we represent, and it is the citizens out there. We are responsible for knowing what the legislation we vote through means for citizens. It is an obligation that we each have in here. When I ask to have that committee again, it is because I am not there to go out and say to the citizens: this means to you, this is your legal position. We cannot give those answers. I have put six questions to the Minister and I understand perfectly well, and I respect the fact that the Ministry is working under great pressure, but that is why we must be able to get satisfactory answers to the questions we are asking, so that we are confident that the legislation we are voting through also covers what it should be. That is why we have raised some questions concerning campsites, because we believe that there is a gap in this area in this legislation. We have asked about it to clarify and to be sure that there are no holes in this area, so campers out there can be comforted by the fact that they are also being thought of. That is the answer that we are seeking in New Citizens. In addition, we are pleased that, in a number of areas relating to the recognition of judges and the safeguarding of rights of appeal which we have been granted, the government has been accommodating, and I am absolutely glad that the government has confirmed this. I am also pleased that it has been made clear that the health authorities are being consulted on recommendations and recommendations. So there are a large number of elements that we are also pleased that have been listened to. However, we are also insecure that when we go in with such significant measures as we are doing here, there is a sunset clause in a whole year. I have heard during the discussion that in the various areas there may probably be a shorter period. However, we do have an amendment which we would like to present here at second reading, which addresses it precisely in relation to the sunset clause, and that is why we want to see it after paragraph. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3, which reads: The sunset clause of the law is automatically repealed 60 days after its entry into force. In this way, we ensure that when we give power to the state and the state, the state retains power for a little too long, because sometimes it wants to hold on to it, only has power for a shorter period of time, because the shorter we give power to the state, the less likely it is also that it will become used to having it. When the 60 days have passed, of course, we are entering into constructive negotiations on whether further action is necessary or whether it is necessary to keep the measures that we have taken, but to give these powers to a government for a whole year in the future in a situation where the Prime Minister himself has indicated that if we all remain vigilant, there is light at the end of the tunnel, we think we are wrong. It is not of bad will, and it is not because we want to obstruct anything, that we want answers to these questions, but I think that the members of the Folketing can manage to work a few more hours. There are worried citizens out there whose life's work can now crumble between their hands, and they also deserve that we really take care to get all questions answered before we adopt a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222317	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222320	Thank you. Both the State's Serum Institute, the Health Authority and, for that matter, the WHO also warns that this epidemic can well go on and on, and it is very likely that there will be a wave of two, that is, something that goes far beyond the 60 days when you would have to repeat it here. So I would just like to know, for the sake of good order, whether the rapporteur has also heard the signals from the experts that this epidemic is going to last for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222351	We listen to the various authorities when they say something, and they also say that we may be pulling out of it now. I think the Folketing has shown that when the government goes to the Folketing and asks for support for actions that they believe are necessary to put into effect now, because that is the situation we are in, the Folketing has taken responsibility across all parties for providing the tools that the government says they need. And I also hope and believe that the Danish Parliament will be ready to do so if we in the autumn what we all hope we do not do is in a situation where we will have to act again. Then I am convinced that a broad parliament will take responsibility one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222438	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The last person to ask for the floor is Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222448	Thank you. I thought I'd come up here too. I think it has been a fine process, something better than last time, when we have also had time to go into depth. I have asked a number of questions about camping sites, but fortunately it is covered by other parties, I understand and I have also received answers to all my questions. We've been discussing this in, I've given up counting how many hours by now, but it's also relevant because this is going far. These are far-reaching powers that we may later give to the Minister for Health and the elderly. That is why it has also been important for us to have proportionality in the measures we are taking. We all heard yesterday the Prime Minister tell us that things are going well in Denmark. It is just important to remember that things are going well because we are doing what the authorities have said: we are showing consideration, we are washing our hands and we are keeping our distance. All this still applies today, because it will only go well if we keep doing this, and it does not require much. Look out in Europe, look at other countries and see how fast things can go really, really wrong if you are not careful. We should just not have that development in Denmark, which is why we are agonizingly aware that the powers we are discussing here are of course no one hopes to be in play. No one hopes that the Minister will use the powers he will have later today if we vote it through. However, if developments are reversed, further action may be necessary, and there it must be done quickly. It takes a little bit of mathematical understanding; it takes you to look at some functions and see that we can't wait 1, 2 or 3 days with this. If things go wrong, things go wrong really fast, and that means time everything. That is why we are willing to give some powers to the Minister because we have ensured that they will only be at stake if the health authorities say that it is timely and if there is a trend in society and we can see the figures that something is going wrong here and action is needed. That's why we're going. We agree because we have secured a court order through access to private homes, and not least because we have ensured that this law, like the previous law, is bound by a sunset clause, that we are a follow-up group that will be involved all the way through, that we are informed and that we will have to review it again in the autumn. Of course there must be a sunset clause, but I fully agree, as my colleague from the SF just mentioned, that this epidemic we have now is the first epidemic. This virus doesn't disappear; it's coming back. So we are going to have a problem that comes to mind here, and there is a need to be able to act quickly. So this isn't an easy decision. These are far-reaching powers, and they are drastic measures that we may be able to take, but it is important to remember that even if it is voted through, it does not mean that we decide to restrict further. We give the opportunity to do so if the figures show that it will be necessary; if the figures go the wrong way. I have followed the figures in Europe, as have many others, and we must not end up, as some of our neighbouring countries have unfortunately ended. This must not happen in Denmark. We need to be able to act quickly, and I have full confidence, as we have been discussing for hours, that this will only be used if there are very good arguments for doing so. That's why we in the Radical Left are backing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222804	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331222815	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. We're gonna have to vote. We're gonna need some cops to open the door. But we can start by voting in this Chamber. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (V), which is a member of a minority (LA). And there's a vote, here you go. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of 26 votes (V, NB and LA), against 69 votes (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by a majority (S, R, V, SF, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG))? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (DF) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 11 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB), which was rejected. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 12 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB), which was rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 17, presented outside the report by Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen of the New Citizen, who rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 15, joined by a minority (KF). A vote can be taken. 2, 1. The President's decision, however, allowed Members to enter the Parliamentary Chamber in small groups at a time in order to cast their votes.' In favour of voting 8 (KF and 1 (V) (by mistake)), against voting 89 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, NB, LA, Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Rasmus Nordqvist (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has therefore been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16 - Membership of the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20200331224429	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 2 p.m. 23.30 with third reading by Mr L 158. The meeting is adjourned.
