ParlaMint-DK_20201119105006	The meeting is open. We need a little quiet in the Chamber and Members need to be in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105018	The items listed as No. 3 and 4 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105046	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105114	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Before I start the vote, I would ask each of you to look for correct names in your voting panel. It looks like it does. Then I will start the vote. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 12 by Rasmus Stoklund (S) and Halime Oguz (SF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 34 (V, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 11 (DF and NB). Proposal for adoption No V 12 adopted. We have had some problems with the vote, but the first proposal for adoption has been adopted, so we have concluded the vote. That is why the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian-Democratic Group) has been tabled. V 11 by Marie Krarup (DF) and Mette Thiesen (NB) and proposals for adoption no. V 13 of Morten Dahlin (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105504	No amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105525	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 5 (NB and LA), abstentions 8 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105559	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105622	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 73 (S, V, RV, SF and KF) voted against 16 (DF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 7 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105659	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105746	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105818	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105902	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119105931	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119110005	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119110020	Thank you, Madam President. We would like to ask for the legislative procedure to be concluded here and to be referred back to committee before the legislative proposal can be dealt with differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119110036	It has now been proposed by Ellen Trane Nørby, the Left, that the second reading of L 48 be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee. The debate on the interruption shall take place so that a representative of each of the groups may speak in favour or against interruption. Speaking time is 1 minute. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed interruption. If the vote is not requested, I shall consider the proposal that the matter be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119110130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I'm gonna have to ask you to calm down. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 11.20. This will allow us to clean the screens and to move the meeting management and voting system back to the normal places.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112049	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open, and this is Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112115	Thank you, President. We are in a situation where the ice melts and the weather gets wilder and the climate changes. We all know. We also know that the government has set itself the wildest goal, and you know it: we need to reduce our CO2 by 2030. But many Danes want to make an active effort on their own. They are trying to live more sustainably and they want to do more. Often I have been asked the question: What can I do for myself? How can I be sure that it will work if I do something? Today we provide the answer to that question, a credible answer: a Climate Forest Fund where you can buy CO 2 But you also get new forest, i.e. such real forest. Because it shouldn't just be some lumber sticks on the ground that stand in straight rows, no, it's real forest with forest brows and variety, and you get low bottom lands for the money. They are taken out of production and flooded, and at the same time you buy space for nature and thus habitats for animals and plants and biodiversity. So the Climate Forest Fund primarily provides climate, but also nature and habitat, and then it provides even more space for outdoor life and picnics. All that the Climate Forest Fund can deliver. The Climate Forest Fund can deliver a credible and documented CO2 I honestly find it difficult to have anything against it. The government, together with the support parties, has already allocated 100 million. kr. In its procurement policy, the Government has decided that state air travel should also be included, and that means that payments will also be made on an ongoing basis. I would also like to stress that we do not need to spend the money on buying land. No, it's the use of the land that you buy. We pay the owners to exploit the soil climate-friendly, stop the normal production, plant trees instead, extract the low bottom soil. That is what we pay for, not the earth itself, and it is forever. So what we are doing today is giving people and businesses back the power of action for the climate. The Climate Forest Fund allows you to do something for yourself, can do something for the climate, can do something for nature, can do it, that there is also more room for those people who love nature and love being out there. Against this background, of course, the Social Democratic Party can only support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112548	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112553	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself mentions this: being out in the woods and highlighting outdoor life in the woods, and I quite agree that there is a lot of life value in being able to take in the woods. After all, this bill allows the state to provide support for afforestation. It has also been made clear that it may be for municipalities. And if it's the local forest that's being set up, you have that free access to the whole school, where you can have those natural experiences all over the place, so you don't just have to walk on the paths in a private forest. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should try to make this bill even better by giving priority to afforestation and forest, where there is public access everywhere. There would be, if it were a municipal forest. So it's all about maybe going in and ranking it, so it was better to support municipal forest than private forest. Does the rapporteur see that there is some music in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112658	We can see the music in it, but we have done it in this proposal, that we create a fund, and then it is up to the fund's assessment. That is what is quite important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112717	Well, that's correct. We're setting up a fund. Now this is the first reading of a legislative proposal, so we can improve it towards a third reading. That's why I'm kind of fishing to see if this could get better. I can also see in some consultation answers that some people want more biodiversity. Well, we can work on it in terms of whether we could ensure greater accessibility. There has to be a statement that the forest is permanent. Could it also be put on record, so that there is public access, that is to say, perhaps make it a priority? There are, of course, some priorities in this, including when it comes to selecting who should be supported, when we have to choose where we get the greatest climate gain. But it might be that we also had to measure other parameters. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112755	Yeah, I can see that there can be a lot of things in it. I also think that in my rapporteur's speech I tried to stress that there are many side effects beyond the climate effect. And, of course, I must also agree with the rapporteur that no, it has not been adopted, I am fully in favour; this is the first reading, but I am dreaming. I think that the main thing here is that it is a climate action. It is about giving citizens the opportunity to make a climate effort. There are other places where biodiversity and nature are at the top of the list. This comes automatically because when we make forests and when we extract low-level soils, there will also be better biodiversity and more nature, for example, but the starting point here is the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112848	Thank you. There is no one else who wants to make short remarks, so that is why it is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119112903	Thank you for that, President. And thank the government for bringing forward the bill. We in the Left think that the purpose one tries to address here is absolutely right. It is a good purpose, and we share that. It is important, as Mrs Gjerskov also very well described, that we also get the Danes involved even more than they already are, to offer some opportunities for participation in what we all want to see gradually, namely that we are spreading our forest areas, both for reasons of biodiversity, nature, climate and other good purposes, including recreational activities, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned in the dialogue a moment ago. We then have a few points of concern, as I would just like to highlight here at first reading and which I hope we can come back to in committee work, too, and also in a dialogue with the Minister on this. Because, as I have said, the intention is very sensible, namely that low-level soils will also be taken out for the purpose and thus also reduced CO2 It is also, we think, positive that we are trying to build up precisely the coherence that must be found in the policy between climate and environment and nature and agriculture, which is really closely linked. We just think that we already have a natural fund with a setup with administration and secretariat, etc., so one could not consider whether one could make a setup of this, but within a well-known framework, so that we can avoid any administration, why the saved cost can go to exactly what we want, namely natural-promoting purposes? Of the 100 million. It is certainly my expectation, but it may be that the Minister can answer the question that part of it goes to the direct administration of the fund, but some of it could certainly be avoided if it is done within a well-known framework. At least it's a thought I've had when we've looked at this bill. There is also concern on our part as to whether this is about a state entering an area that is actually for private collections, where others already are, and whether it will undermine private collection for other good purposes. It can be said that this is something that we should be financing by means of financial laws and agreements in general here in the Danish Parliament. I understand the idea of having the opportunity to contribute as a private person, but I am just concerned about the other private actors who already collect money for all kinds of other good purposes, i.e. that it will be watered down in a competition with state crowns in the back. So it's also an observation point we have. Then there is one point, too, but it may be that the Minister can make me feel more comfortable in relation to the possibility that, once these agreements have been concluded, you can enter into the private areas that will then be involved, but without any form of court order, if there are any disputes. That is certainly something I have noted, but I do not know whether I have understood it correctly, but I am at least concerned about it, because it is at least for me and the Left a fundamental principle that if there are these disputes, one can only enter as an authority if it is by agreement or with a court order in hand. So this is also a point that we would have liked to have clarified either here by the Minister or in the work of the committee. As I said, we see the content of it as something positive and good, but we see, as I said, some concerns about the model and some of the elements involved, but we will go into the committee work with an upright forehead and positive mind, precisely because we share the purpose of what is here, and then we will hope that we can get some good answers, and perhaps also, as Søren Egge Rasmussen said, that we can improve the proposal in the direction of some of what I have tried to describe here, which we see could make it stronger and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113324	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Gjerskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113331	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify his concern a little in relation to the fact that it is us, that is. I hope that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament will support the creation of such a fund here. The whole challenge, when we have been following the climate debate, also internationally, over the last ten years, has been that there has been concern for the credibility of the citizens, in relation to whether, if you invest, you actually get CO2 What is intended here is that you can be confident and sure, both that you contribute to the climate outside, but also that you do so at home. This is something that many people are concerned with. That is what I can hear from, for example. Danish Forest Association, that is, that you are concerned that it becomes local or at least Danish if you are donating.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113436	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113440	Now you can say that the climate does not know borders, so in this sense it is, if you want to do something good for climate, in the context of whether you do it in Denmark or whether you do it somewhere else in the world. It is, of course, a question of reducing CO2 in the world as a whole, but having said that, I understand very well the point made by Mrs Gjerskov, and I also understand that if you donate for a purpose, you would also like to have a little more hand in dealing with what it is so concrete and perhaps want it to be in your immediate area or whatever it might be. That is also why I say that I kind of share the idea. I just have some concerns about the state going into it. In any case, I would like to challenge the fact that you go in and that, as far as I understand, is the first time you do it and operate with or at least make a setup, where you facilitate with government crowns in the back, in a private collection area, where there are other private actors already operating to get the Danes to pay for various good purposes. That's kind of the point I have. My point is also that I think it is possible to achieve this objective, but within a well-known setup, such as the Nature Fund, and thus also to save some administration that we can then channel out for environmental purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113543	Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113546	One must always be careful to compare with other cases, but now I am a little inspired by the chairman of the Danish Parliament, who was previously Minister for Food and was very concerned about the ecological label. The whole point of that was precisely that it was state-controlled. There were simply so many different options and people really did not know how they could do something that was good and sustainable and took account of animal welfare and was without spray poison and all that. Then you made that mark, and it is still the brand that has the highest credibility in Denmark, because it is controlled in the way it does. This is not directly comparable to the Climate Forest Fund, but there are also so many different opportunities in the climate area and people have no idea what to do. They're asking us for help to do something credible. That's what they get with the Climate Forest Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113638	For the sake of history, I allowed a little longer speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113645	It may be that I can spend a little longer speaking time in my reply time, if I also commend the President-in-Office of the Council for the work he has done in the past, and I am happy to do so. Honorable to the one to be honored. But it is true, as Mrs Mette Gjerskov says, that there are parallelities in some way. I have just come to the view that this has not been done in the past directly in relation to collections and that there are already other private actors who are gathering from private contributors. At any rate, there has been a concern that state crowns are now in the back and that this will not lead to unfair competition in this context. I'm just saying that I think that you can achieve this purpose by adjusting the model, for example within the Nature Fund, and extending the paragraph of purpose, or whatever it might be, so as to avoid the problem that I am trying to raise here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113731	So did the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119113741	Thank you for that, President. In relation to the Danish Climate Forest Fund, there is no doubt, as the two previous rapporteurs have said, that this is a positive thing. The goal is noble, and we support that in the Danish People's Party as well. So you can say, how do we get there? Do we agree with that? And, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we believe that there are some challenges in relation to the setup that has been made here. We actually have the Nature Fund today, and when I read this bill and look at it, it starts to look so much like how we run politics in Denmark: We make pillars, and when there is something we focus on, we make a new pillar. And now, if this goes through, and so we hope it does, but gladly in a different wrapper, both the Climate Forest Fund and the Danish Nature Fund. This means that we then have two pillars and we have two setups and that we need to spend money on running two organisations that actually have the same purpose: that we should have more nature. We think this is a pity, and we think that the money is being used incorrectly, and we would rather spend that money on getting some more nature and more biodiversity and more climate instead of getting more organisations distributed on different pillars. So when we go to the negotiations on this, which we are going to have in committee, that's where we want to use our powers, in terms of whether we couldn't get another organization of this, so you spend the money right. In fact it is also the case that one can buy oneself into the Nature Fund; one can also do that as an ordinary citizen. I think it's something with 1 m2 or something; it's a few crowns you have to give for it, and then you buy in. And it is a little the same thoughts that are here, so the thoughts are certainly not wrong, and it may also be that the Nature Fund may need to be changed a little, in relation to what mandate they are working on. But we really hope that the Minister will look at how we can have a one-tier system that will give us more nature, both in relation to the citizens, vis-à-vis the landowners and in relation to the politicians: where are we going when we want to look at this? What kind of Christmas gift do I have to give when I have to buy some nature to give it for Christmas? So are there any more places I have to choose from? No, that's where I'm gonna go somewhere, and then I'm gonna buy my natural Christmas gift there. So that's what we're gonna do. Compared to the whole idea of the state going in and depositing the 100 million. kr., one can discuss about 100 million. kr. is very or little; in the real world is 100 million. kr. Not much, of course, but you have to start somewhere, we recognise that. And then you can see in different financial laws and other things that you can also squeeze it in and get more money off to make the fund a little stronger and get some more muscle. In any case, we have been able to see from the Nature Fund that we have actually received a great deal for our money. There's actually a lot of nature out there that people want to get rid of. People want to hand over the use, so we get these positive effects. So we are going to take a positive view of this and look forward to the committee reading. But again, and it is not to tighten the proposal, I would say that we would like the organisation to stay in a different way. And I also hope that the Minister will be ready to take that discussion. It may also be that there are good arguments as to why it should be like this. We just can't see them at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114114	Thank you. There is no doubt that forests are part of the solution to the major climate crisis we are facing and a very concrete means of achieving the reduction targets that we ourselves have set ourselves. It is an important means, but it is also important to stress today that it is not the only means, because what is fantastic about the forest as a means is that it absorbs and stores CO2 It is smart, but it is also what makes the forest not solves the task for us alone. But it is an incredibly important instrument and it is very good that we now have a framework for this work with the Climate Forest Fund. But it is also important for us to stress that this is not, of course, the only framework, the only instrument, because what is at the heart of the Climate Forest Fund is voluntaryness. It is that it is an initiative created for the citizens or the authorities, public institutions or companies who want to make a climate contribution, either as a voluntary donation or to compensate for their own emissions, without, however, in a legal framework, but as an opportunity to buy some sort of discharge for the discharge that you might otherwise have. But that is not the only thing, because it should not be a secret today that what we really believe can make a difference is not voluntary, it is regulation, and that is that the polluter pays. Nor should there be any doubt about that today, but we very much welcome all the citizens, public companies and private companies who want to make a voluntary contribution, buy indulgences, so to speak, for the emissions they are responsible for. But, of course, that is not the only solution. So for the foundation design itself. It's been a balancing act. It is incredibly important that there is a great deal of credibility about the reductions that this forest fund is supposed to make. In other words, if a company wants to write in its annual accounts that they have bought some kind of climate compensation, one must also believe that this is actually the reduction that has taken place out there. So it is incredibly important that there is credibility, so we have the certainty when you buy some form of compensation or donate to the climate through a forest fund. And that is why it is not just such a charitable purpose; it is a purpose and a fund that must be run very professionally and with the emphasis that we also get the reductions that are being put in store for the individual investor. Then there has been a lot of focus on the construction • Perhaps not so much the foundation construction itself, but the interaction with other foundations out there in the landscape. And when you read the hearing answers, you can see that they split up roughly fifty-fifty. There are those who believe that it is too clear with a Climate Forest Fund, that is, that there should be more focus on biodiversity and nature, and then on the other hand there are those who say: Well there is too much nature and biodiversity, because there must be a very clear demarcation and focus on climate. And that is why I believe that we are hitting a fairly good balance, where the focus, as is also very clear from the draft law, is climate. However, when we are going to plant a lot of trees for the benefit of the climate, we think it is very good that we are also thinking of synergies and that it can also become more concrete when we, as an investor, have to decide what we really want to buy for • so that we may be able to put down some more money and then buy a product package, which therefore also contains something that benefits biodiversity and nature. We think this is the right balance, but of course we will follow this fund and the interaction with the other funds in the coming years to see if there is the right and necessary demarcation, so that it doesn't just flow together and it becomes completely opaque for the individual consumer or the individual company. We strongly support the idea that we should be able to see on the bottom line what reductions the initiatives lead to. Of course, that is the crucial thing, but it must also be possible to think nature and biodiversity in terms of both the fund, but also for the individual investor, who says which I think is a perfectly legitimate need: I want to compensate for something CO2 That is what we think is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114618	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114623	After all, the rapporteur was advocating that there should be not only voluntaryness but also some regulation, and I had an idea when I heard it. After all, we have some negotiations about CO2 DKK, which we helped to secure together in the last financial agreement, could have some CO2 in this Climate Forest Fund, so that we could come up with far more money than 100 million. kr., and that thus one could thus have an effect of imposing some professions and some behavior some CO2 So, 100 million. kr. can be used quickly. I think there is a need to look at how we can make this bigger, and I know that the rapporteur, like the Enhedslisten, has some vision that we should have less agricultural land, and then that area should be used for something else, among other things. forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114727	I think it is very important that the fund itself is a voluntary construction. Then it may well be that we are introducing some taxes in which we think that some of the revenue we get from the levies we are throwing into the Climate Forest Fund instead of spending them on, it could be all sorts of other good: public welfare, etc. It makes sense. But I do believe that the main purpose of having taxes is for those who are taxed to change their behaviour, i.e. to deduce less. That, I believe, is the primary objective of taxation. But it is clear that the taxes we then get into the treasury we have to decide what we want to use, and it is quite obvious that they are then used for something that actually goes out and compensates for that discharge, or it could also be pollution that you go in there and compensate by planting some forest through the foundation structure here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114823	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114826	Well, it could be that the companies that pay a tax were a little more satisfied with paying taxes if they knew that it went to a good purpose so that they could better understand the reasonableness of it. Now the rapporteur mentioned something about companies that voluntarily pay a contribution, and I can easily see that you can make a green account for a company where you write what you do of good deeds, which compensates for some air transport, and what else it might be. But does the rapporteur not see that we can end up where it is then invested in a private forest where there is no public access and where that company cannot make a business trip there because there is no public access, beyond the paths?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114905	I understand the question as a follow-up to the question that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen addressed the Social Democrat rapporteur. I have to admit that I haven't had a lot of reflections on public access yet. I don't think that's the most important thing. I think that the most important thing is reductions in relation to the climate, and then it is also nature and biodiversity. But, of course, I would like to take the second point into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114925	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119114928	Thank you for your speech and comments. I should like to ask whether the Radicals do not agree with me that the most important thing in this sense is that we will have the maximum possible impact on the funds that are now being used, both the state and, of course, the private ones, which may be generated for this purpose. And is it important for the radical rapporteur that it takes place under the auspices of just a new fund, or could it be an opportunity to put it under, for example, the Nature Fund with the setup that we already know today, so surely you have to expand their paragraph of purpose, or what is going to be purely legal, so you sort of run it within a well-known setup and thus get the least possible administration and nature and climate out of the funds that are now being generated?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115013	I really don't believe that. I have read the nature fund's hearing answer, and what I have noticed there is that they are afraid that there is too much overlap. They would rather have the Climate Forest Fund very clearly defined to climate, but I do not recall that the consultation answer says that they want to put all this effort behind them. It may be that I have read it too quickly, but then the rapporteur must finally make me wiser. However, I believe that this is a completely different type of project than the Nature Fund projects and also that it is a number of other competences, because this will be a fund that has much more focus on the bottom line, which then has not so much to do with the economy, but is about reductions, and that involves some slightly different professional skills than there, as far as I know, is on the board of the Nature Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115057	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115059	We could talk about that. It's the more a question of the principle of whether we can do a construction... I think, sir. René Christensen called it a one-string construction where we can just focus on the right skills and where we do not have unnecessary double management. After all, there will be some evaluation, and the entire administration of a fund will have to run, and everything else will be a more streamlined and therefore more efficient economy by making it in an overall setup than if you do it in two, despite the fact that it may be slightly different tasks that need to be solved and competences to be used. Can the radical rapporteur not see the idea in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115135	Yes, but I still believe that the purpose here is so different between a natural fund that works to secure large natural areas for the benefit of biodiversity and that has it as its main focus, and then this fund, which I also think will make some a little other packages, and which will have much more focus on climate accounting. So it might well be that you could put it in the same organization, but I still think that within that organization you would have two pillars. Then it may well be that you have one board, but there I can actually be a little concerned about how to ensure that both professions are strong enough on the two boards and that professionalism is strong enough on both tracks. So I guess I'm a little skeptical about that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115216	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115219	Thank you. It's actually just the same thing. I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has no special relationship or any special feelings about who should do it. But we know in here that when we put some money into society that has to do something, we quickly see that the administrative costs are around 10%. I think Mrs. Zenia Stampe can recognize that too. That's why we have this question. You now set 100 million. kr. I hope it will be more money, but then we have these two organisations, and we just know that it costs to operate such organisations. So was it not worth taking into account when we are going to discuss it before the third reading, whether or not we can do something about it? I also agree with what the rapporteur says about the fact that it may be different objectives, but it is just a pity, when we have so little money at our disposal, to spend them on administration instead of spending them on some nature, environment and climate. Will the rapporteur not be open to looking at this in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115318	I'd like to be open to look at it. But just to exemplify the problem: In a natural fund there must be primarily a board of directors who have professional skills in nature and biodiversity, and in a climate forest fund there must be people who know climate, of course, on the biology which, so to speak, is linked to the collection of CO2 I know that there has been a great demand from companies for those who expect to go in and put quite large amounts of money • so that there must be some with a pretty big business understanding and be aware that there is a bottom line focus here; it is not just for butterflies' sake. So we're the ones who say we have to bring that too. We must give the consumer the opportunity to throw a little extra money into the box, and then we will have a slightly broader project, which is not only plantation forest, but in fact also something that benefits nature and biodiversity. But these are two very, very different professions. It is forest both, but forest is not just forest, and that is why I think that, regardless of whether you put it into the same design, you would still have sub-boards on the two areas because they are so different.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115427	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115429	Now, in fact, I think we are underestimating a little what some people are sitting on these boards and what they can contain of tasks. I think we can now find people who can accommodate both, because professionalism is, after all, within the same pillar. It is therefore a question of what nature can do, also in relation to CO2 capture. So I am not so afraid of that. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, this smells just a long way away from the fact that when you have a changing majority, even if it may be governments of the same color, you always have to put your stamp on what you did, that is to say, that with successive ministers you do something, because then you have put your stamp on it, and then when another minister comes, he gets his stamp on it. And it's just too bad we use nature to put stamps instead of getting nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115514	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115516	I don't think that's been driving at all. I must then admit that I thought that we had also had a hand in the game in connection with the Nature Fund, yes, so have we, I am just being told. So I can say that there is no need for us to have a climate forest fund where I can write that Mrs Zenia Stampe gave the rapporteur's speech on the Radical Left. So it really isn't a motivation here. But the message we have received from the companies is that it is a completely different construction from the Nature Fund. There are some other professional skills, and there is much greater bottom line focus. That is why we are afraid that they will simply not invest the much money that we hope they will do if we put it in a natural fund which I have not heard asking for this to come under them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115607	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stamp. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119115620	Thank you. In SF we have long wanted to see a forest fund in Denmark that could boost afforestation in Denmark, both to increase the Danish forest area, but in particular also to help the climate. Trees are simply our best and cheapest technology to absorb CO2 and if you are in doubt, we need the help of the trees in the climate struggle. We are therefore pleased that the Danish Climate Forest Fund, which was agreed at last year's financial law negotiations, is now on the way to becoming a reality with this bill. More afforestation and removal of low bottom soils is just an indisputablely important contribution to resolving the climate crisis, and it is also an important element in achieving the Danish ambitions that Danish emissions should go into net zero levels there should be climate neutrality and balance in the accounts by 2050 at the latest. I hope and believe that there are many Danes and companies who will make a contribution to the Climate Forest Fund and thereby promote afforestation in Denmark. Through the sale of CO2 There must be credibility in the Foundation's work, and this is quite essential, because if you have followed the debate on climate compensation and various measures that you can buy from different private organisations and outside the Danish borders, then there has been no proper credibility, even if projects that have been under the Kyoto Agreement. So it is important that we now have a fund that can ensure complete credibility about what it is for a CO2 In Denmark we also have the Danish Nature Fund, which has the main purpose of improving the natural state in Denmark, and in its consultation answer the fund has raised a concern that there might be a risk of the Danes getting a little confused. What do you get in the Danish Nature Fund, what do you get in the Climate Forest Fund? We have listened to this in the SF, which is why I also think it is important to emphasise that when there is communication around the Climate Forest Fund, it must be quite clear that the main objective 2 Then there may be some synergies and underlying considerations of biodiversity and nature. I am also pleased that the draft law, based on the consultation responses, has clarified that the main purpose of the Climate Forest Fund is therefore cost-effective CO 2 I SF, there is no doubt that Denmark needs both the Danish Nature Fund and the Danish Climate Forest Fund. Therefore, it is our starting point that we expect that many citizens are actually concerned both with preserving valuable nature and at the same time traveling forest with the aim of capturing CO2 It is also central to the Climate Forest Fund that the state and other public actors should be able to use it to pool money for afforestation in Denmark, because the volume we need from afforestation in Denmark is not so small even, and therefore it makes good sense to gather the contributions that may come from Danish companies, from the Treasury, from municipalities and regions in order to obtain as much volume as possible for the money that is for afforestation. We are pleased that the Climate Forest Fund will soon be able to work. We will follow it closely, because I think we should also become wiser when we see that it is going to live and work and we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120043	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120046	Now the rapporteur stressed that it is the climate that is the main aim of this new fund. It is also exciting, and then we must remember biodiversity and nature, etc. Can the rapporteur not see that there can be a dilemma if you really have to give priority to CO2 if you are really aiming to store as much CO2 as possible? That is why I think there are some of the consultation answers that point to a slightly sensitive point. Does the rapporteur see that perhaps we need to clarify how heavy the main aim of climate is to be weighted in relation to other considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120148	Basically, we still believe in SF that the main objective is greenhouse gas reductions and that climate considerations are the main objective of the Climate Forest Fund. It can then be said, as the legislative proposal also says, that there may be synergies in terms of biodiversity, different types of forest, etc. There's going to be a list that there are different packages of products... I think that's the concept... that means there's also going to be an opportunity to look at what kind of forest is in this. Is it a coniferous forest, or is it a deciduous forest, and what kind of constructions are there? However, I think that, when it comes to recognizing the hearings which have also been about the opposite, there may be some confusion as to what the main purpose is, for example. The Danish Nature Fund and the Climate Forest Fund. I just think it's crucial that we stick to the fact that this Climate Forest Fund has been set up with the main focus of getting more trees to give us a helping hand in the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120250	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120251	I just think that this is something we need to clarify, because what if we end up with half of this forest that comes with the Climate Forest Fund is some fast-growing poplar that could then displace some CO2 What would the natural content be with such large areas with poplars? I think we should be allowed to take a critical look at that. It may also be that if you really weight the fast-growing, so that you can store the most CO2 at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120330	In fact, I can follow that concern, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen in. We do not imagine that all the trees to be raised through the Climate Forest Fund should be, for example, the trees to be raised through the Climate Forest Fund. Spruce. Of course, there are different growth periods for conifers and broadleaves respectively. What is central is just that you can write down when CO2 and then we can easily discuss what the horizon should be. We just have to recognise that afforestation is going to be of little help to us today in 2030, but it will only come closer to 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120408	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120417	Enhedslisten is for this forest and nature fund. It is, of course, an expiry of our financial law agreement, and I agree with some of the comments that, when discussing finance law, you might want to have some pointers put in, that you get some forest that the descendants can see you have made. And what can you get for $100 million? kr., when you go in and support a afforestation of perhaps 40,000 kr. per Acres? Yes, it is 2,500 hectares that can then be established with the 100 million. kr., and we have over 620 000 hectares of forest in Denmark. That is why we are so dependent on this being a success, so that the funds can be supplemented in other ways. So it is important that we get started, and that is a first reading. I think that many Danes have positive experiences with forest, that it is something that you are happy to take out, and that when you leave a forest, you are even happier. Because it's the nature experiences that you can have that can be varied over the year and that can be different, depending on what it is for a forest you visit, and that has something to say when you have to have that recreational experience, whether you can only go on some well-kept gravel trails or it's allowed to do some wandering errands and see if there are some mushrooms in the forest floor at certain times of the year, and that you can go out there with children who can play all over it, instead of only walking on the path as if you were in the city. So I think that these recreational values help to ensure that, even when we are out in the middle of something about getting businesses and private people to support and donate money to a Climate Forest Fund, and I believe that public access to these forests is something that we should ensure, and that must be guaranteed, it is a commitment to peace in the forest. But it could be very good if there was also a guarantee that there is public access to these forests, and one would be able to ensure this if it is the case that it is municipalities and regions that are applying for support in the Climate Forest Fund, because then it will become a public forest with public access. Then I also think it is important to work on giving priority to more forest. If you look at the recent report from the European Environment Agency, it shows that Denmark is second in favour of prioritising habitats with good environmental status, only Belgium manages their nature less than Denmark. In fact, I find that thought-provoking. And that is why it is also important when we establish something new here that it is not only pure production forest and CO2 It is so good that there is a main aim called climate, but we should not end up with certain wood species that will dominate it all, because in a real spreadsheet one can come to the conclusion that it has the fastest CO2 I think that when you set things in motion like this, and you • what to say requires and expect a support from civil society, then try to go for the optimum, and therefore I think that other parameters such as recreational values and drinking water protection can also be something that can be included when you have to judge what kind of projects you support. I could really see an advantage in this if, in its first stages, priority is given to supporting local afforestation, because then we will ensure public access. I also think it would be important and natural in this whole discussion of what it is for some products you get out of it that there is an FSC certification of the products that come from these forests created by the Climate Forest Fund. Then there is a board that has to be composed, and it is a little funny when it is a climate fund that you want a board, where there is only one from the Ministry of Climate and Energy, and that the rest of the board members are then appointed by the Minister for the Environment, and they must then have good advice from some advisory board where they are exclusively appointed by the Minister for the Environment. Wouldn't it be possible to imagine that we made a different construction, so that KL and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association and others might have a permanent place on the board? I can see that the Minister can certainly put together a team that can do some different things, but should we not, when we create such a new fund, try to secure a wider anchoring than what can be found in the Ministry of the Environment? I think that would be important. Then I also think that we should not only think about afforestation, that it is planted forest, but that we can also give room for areas that may spring into forest and that could be something that complements what has been planted and thus come up with something that has a higher natural content than the purely planted forest, where everything is in rows.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120929	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119120932	Thank you for your speech and comments. The rapporteur makes a bit of a point here about the fact that, as the rapporteur said, there should be public access. Now I actually thought the rapporteur was in favour of untouched forests, but leave it at that, because that is perhaps a parallel discussion. But I could understand that access should not only be to the established gravel trails, but also into the rest of the forest. Does the rapporteur not think that, on the other hand, it can also present a challenge to those who would like to put aside land for them to say: 'Oh, maybe it is not right there that we think it is most appropriate if we have to understand me • all sorts of things to run around in the woods and make noise and fuss? Can it not also go the other way, so we say that if you sort of secure what the purpose is, namely to do something good for the climate and the environment, then it is just like that which is the main thing, and then the second must come secondary?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121023	Thank you. I think it is incredibly important to set priorities in the current forest. There we have a number of agricultural subsidies which are being implemented, in which it is both private and local authorities that can apply for some of their existing forests to be converted into untouched forests. So that arrangement is already there. So I don't think we should embrace untouched forest in this proposal. With regard to public access, there is also some money in agricultural aid which is now being implemented. I think that if the Minister had not changed today, we would probably have achieved their goal. Now I do not know exactly where it stands, but there are, in fact, some funds where private individuals can apply for support for the creation of private forests. So it does exist in other aid schemes, and I really think that it might be good for the committee to have a whole list of what we have of support systems at the moment, both for low bottom areas and for afforestation, in order to get an overview of what it is that a climate forest fund should be able to additionally. That's one of them. the hard core priority of climate, and then we have to see if we can then turn on public access, because that would be an absolute advantage to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121130	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121131	I very much agree with what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says here at last about getting an overview. As I see it, there are plenty of different arrangements in the same area. There you can then have an opinion about what works best and what works less well. But just to get an overview of various afforestation programmes I very much agree with would be good, and I hope the Minister will listen to that so that we can send it over to you, I am quite sure we can. However, my question was more concerned with the concern I have by saying that, for this purpose, it should not be merely a question of ensuring that funds are provided to set up some forest which may be good for the climate. It should be a matter of concern that the purpose can actually be a little flute, if we also give access to the fact that there is too much public access, so that those who have to add land will say: no, we will not do that anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121211	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121212	Well, I can also imagine a combination if it is the case that there is a private person who wants to establish a large forest area on his own land and wants public support for it so that it could be differentiated so that there could be an area close to the housing he may have in the area where there are some roads that are private and where the majority of the forest has a public accessibility. You could say, "Why not?" What is it that the private forest owner wants so private? Because if you hunt a few times a year, you can put up a sign and do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121246	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121247	It is almost just before I have received the answer to my question. Because that was actually a little in line with what was said. Because that must be the first objective. I therefore agree that it makes sense if it is possible to have public access. We all know the positive effects that are coming out in the nature movement and everything else. But we also know, and we have seen this in other cases, that public access can sometimes be a brake on some of these pilots. I also understand that one says from the Enhedslisten that one is actually willing to look at how far one can go in the way of volunteering, also in relation to the landlords, and make some combinations so that it is the purpose that always comes first, and not the public's access that comes first. Because then it can be difficult in some places. At least that's what experience shows. But is that really heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121334	Yes, but I think it is natural that if anyone wants to receive public aid, then one should also be ready for there to be some requirements in terms of receiving that aid. For a private person can travel his own forest without public support. However, there are, where possible, subsidies, and I think it is essential to look at the need to ensure both peace forest when there is support and also to ensure public access. I think, in fact, that a specific case-by-case approach can relate to whether it would be reasonable for there to be a corner where there is a little privacy when a private person travels a large piece of forest. I can see that. I can also see that there are sometimes disadvantages. There are different attitudes towards people who use the forest recreationally • whether it is disturbing that you come running fast or you bike on a mountain bike. There are different views on this in the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121427	Thank you for that and we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121440	All in all, the purpose of the Climate Forest Fund is glorious. Here we have thought about how to use low-level soils in climate efficiency and seek to achieve strong synergies between different functions of selected land for nature, including biodiversity, production and leisure purposes. That's good. But it is also a new construction, and it is of course important to discuss whether that construction is the right one. In 2014 the Social Democratic led government created the Danish Nature Fund. So is there a reason why you haven't tried to think this construction into the Danish Nature Fund? A fund model was won under the auspices of the State Administration, and it is a model different from that of the Danish Nature Fund, which is a commercial fund. So what is the reason why the business fund has not been chosen as a construction for the Climate Forest Fund? The Nature Fund, in cooperation with private investors, has succeeded in implementing a number of projects, so it would be natural to consider the same fund structure, or perhaps that it was one construction, in the work that lies here. But on the basis of that, it's a really good idea. It is a good initiative with a focus on real climate effects, as Mrs Signe Munk from SF also highlighted, so that we can convert inefficient and climate-laden low-level soils to nature in the form of forest and forest brows through the raising of private capital via pilot owners who voluntarily participate in cooperation with the fund. So with the right setup, a skilled chairman and board of directors and a credible reporting on climate impact inventory, the fund will probably be able to do it more effectively than a state administration could do it. There are, of course, a number of administrative problems in relation to the restructuring of the mini-marital areas, so we hope that the fund can work more effectively than that. It is also good that the fund can work flexibly with the instruments. Because it's a new construction. This is something new that we are about to start, and it is important that it is successful. As usual, however, I am also concerned about whether the written ministerial powers to adapt the instruments go too far. So we are also interested in better describing what measures are involved and getting it fenced in. For example: measures that may be expropriative should not be possible. So we are on the same line as the rapporteur on the Left and have discussed with the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten how much we can define private property in this context. It also needs to be clarified what is meant by owning land to a limited extent by the Fund and for a limited number of years. So I look forward to the committee reading where we can better identify those parts. Then there is something that I do not think is very well described in the comments about tax conditions for landowners who voluntarily land. It must be crucial that the tax conditions are clear, that landowners know what they are going for. One idea one could play with was, so to speak, that there could be a trade in order to propose tax exemption for landowners who voluntarily enter into this, in exchange for public access. This is certainly a discussion we would like to have in the Conservative People's Party. So in these words we look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121839	Thank you for the floor. The Government has put forward a bill to introduce a Climate Forest Fund, which will help to support the achievement of Denmark's climate goals. In new citizens, we are constructive about concrete action in this area when it makes sense, and we believe that this proposal does. There has been talk of the positive nature of the proposal, and we fully agree with that. In addition, it also allows for the removal of low-level soils. Agriculture is in a difficult situation and faces some restrictions that we do not yet know, but they have themselves pointed out that the removal of low-level soils is something that they welcome. So we also see that as a positive thing in this bill. Then a number of proposals have been made to adjust the design and adjustment of the legislative proposal during the debate, and we will then follow this in committee. But my expectation is that New Citizens will end up supporting the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119121954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119122004	Thank you very much. This climate forest fund is a nice little footprint from history's greenest financial law, which we made last year, with 100 million. kr. to a Climate Forest Fund. The agreement, in fact, strikes two flies with one stone: it reduces our total CO2 at the same time, it must involve ordinary people, NGOs and private companies, so that together we can create the synergy and green waves needed to overcome the enormous challenges we face in green conversion. So the deal is green heart blood for the alternative. What are the challenges with the agreement? In other words, we may be afraid that it will be a sleeping pillow that the state, municipalities, business and citizens, instead of doing the hard work of reducing the climate load from their activities, flight etc., may focus too much on buying indulgences and in this way climate compensation their consumption, and that is not what must happen in general. Of course, this is an opportunity to reduce the climate load, but it should not take the place of doing so directly by reducing its climate-laden activities. There is already a market for CO2 Why not let the market control it? Well, first of all, the market is currently such a little wild west. We've heard too many stories about CO2 that's why the foundation is a good idea. At the same time, the vast majority of market players are based on buying climate compensation in developing countries, and there are several research projects that have shown that this is not necessarily the best way, as this type of climate compensation, unfortunately, can result in an even higher CO2 and, of course, the problem of foreign climate compensation is also that we must stick to the fact that we in the West have a responsibility for the climate crisis. It is the Western world that has emitted by far the largest amount of CO2 in the alternative we see the Climate Forest Fund as a very good thing, and providing additional opportunities to engage civil society in the climate struggle is a good thing. So, of course, we can wholeheartedly support this proposal and look forward to having it adjusted to the work of the committee so that the good amendments from the green NGOs, which, incidentally, we seem reasonably enthusiastic about this, can also be incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119122259	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now welcoming the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119122307	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your positive reception in this Chamber. Many Danes and companies want to make a difference to the climate, and I think we all think that is enormously positive. However, there has been a lack of a clear possibility which ensures both concrete and credible climate compensation on Danish soil. With the Danish Climate Forest Fund, we provide the opportunity to reduce climate by contributing precisely to Denmark's 70-percent target by 2030. Of course, we must all try first and foremost to lower our CO2 through the Foundation, each of us can help to take good care of the climate through efforts on Danish soil. The Fund operates by receiving, on the one hand, financial contributions from, for example: citizens and companies who receive a receipt for purchased CO2 There has already been a great deal of support for the Danish Climate Forest Fund, both from the green organisations and from the industry in connection with the public consultation. So now I hope that the Danes will also take in the Danish Climate Forest Fund so that we can have better climate, better environment, more nature, more forests and more open air. We are in the midst of a climate crisis and we are in the midst of a natural crisis and both require action. With the Danish Climate Forest Fund, we act on the climate crisis, but at the same time we also act on the natural crisis. And I would like to say, in relation to the debate that has taken place in this Chamber, that the effort for the climate, as the name of the fund also says, is the main purpose of the Danish Climate Forest Fund, but we have made sure to write into the bill that the fund also always works with regard to nature and biodiversity, because we should not save the climate at the expense of nature. Therefore, it has also been important to me that the forests that we travel through the Danish Climate Forest Fund do not become slim plantations without biodiversity • We should not make clean timber factories. On the other hand, it will be forests with broadleaves, conifers and forest brows, so that we can have robust forests with a balanced climate and natural effect. And then it has to be forests that we can travel in that we have also been asked about as usual and which we can enjoy in the countryside. This brings us all joy. The second main activity, which has filled a little less in today's debate, is that for the new fund there will also be the possibility of the removal of low-level soils, and here the emission of CO2 can also be good opportunities for a natural boost. Both the new forests and the extracted low bottom areas are secured by land registration, so they are in the landscape, and we have secured all of this with the bill. It must be forests that benefit both the climate and our nature and the environment. Many have called for the opportunity to contribute financially to concrete climate projects in Denmark. By supporting the fund, the individual citizen or company can contribute to the green conversion, and everyone can contribute the amount they want. There is no upper or lower limit. Specifically, you will be able to support the Danish Climate Forest Fund through donations, contributions and co-financing to the fund, and pilot owners can contribute by making their land available so that the fund can raise forest or take out low bottom land. With the Danish Climate Forest Fund, we finally get a legitimate and credible recipient of voluntary funding in the climate area, and this is something that has been demanded from many sides. I share the experience that has also been described here that we have seen too many examples of how things have gone wrong when people, including companies, have invested in something that has been difficult to understand and where it has proved not to have the effect that they had hoped for. I would like to point out that we have previously established a fund that has nature as its focus, namely the Danish Nature Fund. It has also filled something today. It is true that it is a heartchild, also for a social democratic government, because we were also involved in setting up that fund. With the new Climate Forest Fund, we get a good supplement... that's how we see it. It is important, therefore, that the Climate Forest Fund also coordinate its efforts with other funds and actors, because there must be room for everyone. It is absolutely crucial for the success of the Danish Climate Forest Fund that it is built around credibility and openness. One must therefore be able to rely on it to bear something and that the contributions you make to the fund also make a real difference to the climate. Therefore, the Danish Climate Forest Fund will be established as an independent management unit. A board of directors and an advisory committee are set up to ensure that the fund also meets the obligations laid down in the law; obligations which are primarily aimed at the climate, but which also relate to biodiversity, nature and recreational purposes. The Fund shall continuously calculate, calculate and monitor the climate impact of the supported projects. The inventories will be included in a register published on the Fund's website and then the climate statements will be verified by an independent third party. We've also placed a buffer in the fund. The duration of the projects must be ensured by the Danish Climate Forest Fund allocating a certain proportion of all CO2 2 in connection with forest fires or stormfall. In this way, we will ensure that the fund becomes a credible recipient of contributions from citizens, companies, associations and anyone else who wants to be involved. The climate effect is counted in the Danish climate inventories and thus also contributes to the realisation of the Danish climate objectives and only there. That is to say, there will be no double counting, as the CO2 start-up grant for the fund, as has also been said, was sounded by the Finance Act last year. Thank you to the parties that have helped us now to allocate the first 100 million. kr. to the Climate Forest Fund. We've worked hard to get a bill in place. Indeed, the construction of the fund involves a whole new state organisation in an area which is also characterised by a very high degree of complexity, and we also want the fund's projects and climate accounting to meet the absolutely highest international standards in this area. We have consulted experts in this area, we have held a large number of meetings with stakeholders to also identify the wishes for the establishment, and now we are so ready with the bill, and I am infinitely happy and proud of that. Afforestation and set-aside are simple climate tools that can make a really big difference, while we transform both society and our habits in a greener direction. The low-level interventions have a good effect on the short track, and the fund can choose to start with the smaller areas, which are not so complex, so as to have an even faster climate effect. Afforestation is cheaper than the removal of low-level soils per year. In contrast, as has also been said in the debate, it takes a little longer for the forest to grow up and have a full effect. That is why we have also chosen to be able to do both. We have chosen this because we believe it is important to act both in the short term and in the long term. In another direction, with the new green procurement strategy, we have just ensured that the government will also introduce climate compensation for all state flights via the fund, and in this way we will also ensure beyond the 100 million. kr., which is already in the foundation, that new money can be put in the box for new forest and procurement. If we are to achieve our very, very ambitious climate targets in Denmark, we need to think in new ways. The whole of Denmark has to pull in the same direction, and therefore we also invite with this fund that all Danes can contribute to the climate struggle. With the Danish Climate Forest Fund, the state, companies and citizens are working together to finance the green transition. And with the state in the back, with the Danish Crown, companies and citizens also get security that their contributions make a real difference to the climate, so that together we can achieve what is the whole purpose. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123200	There are some brief comments. First it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123204	Thanks to the Minister for the Environment for a good speech, who also addressed some of these elements, which are of course super-central to the construction of the Climate Forest Fund. I just want to hear the Minister's reflection on the communication to the citizens about the Climate Forest Fund, and why we should make a contribution here, i.e. whether the Minister can guarantee that there will be a clear main focus on the fact that it is greenhouse gas reductions that are the main objective, that it is therefore about climate • perhaps also an aid to see that if you want more nature conservation, and if you want to go into something like what the Danish Nature Fund is really good at, then that is where you have to put your money, so we make sure that it is not only in here in the Parliament hall that we are aware of the diversity of the funds, but so that it is also perfectly clear to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123252	The short answer to the rapporteur's question is: Yes. I think it is very important that we communicate what the Danish Climate Forest Fund should be able to do and why it is that Danes should contribute there. But I am also listening from the Danish business community to the fact that those companies that are not part of the quota sector and who really want to make up for the climate footprint they have, but where they cannot reduce energy consumption or whatever else it might be, would like to have a product like what we have today. So I think that when we get started, we must of course, from a political point of view, help to say that the two funds can do their own thing. The climate is here in the focus that is the currency with CO2 because I also think that we can be extremely happy with all the work that the Danish Nature Fund is doing, and I have also had a meeting with them myself. And the two funds can each their own, and I think there's room for boats and... But, of course, we need to support communication, in relation to when to enter one door and when to enter the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123358	Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123359	That is a very positive response, which I am naturally pleased with. In addition, I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister can see the point that we might have followed it here in the year when the Climate Forest Fund is going to work, and also as legislators and initiators let us learn more if there is something to be addressed, so that we can all see how this Climate Forest Fund works.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123430	I'm very excited to get started myself. We have, of course, given the start with the legislative process we are currently doing, but also with the amount of money that the state has to pay. But it does not only do we need more people to take an interest in the Climate Forest Fund. And the structure we have chosen is also based on a dialogue with a number of stakeholders, in which we would like to have the flexibility that, despite everything, it gives that, although the fund is independent, so with the development that is also in the climate area, there is an opportunity to become wiser and add new products, on the one hand for the board of directors, and, on the other hand, that we can have a position on it politically as well. So I would very much like to be a part of the follow-up work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123508	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123511	The Enhedslisten also wants this to be a success, that it is something that is going to be big and that it will not just be 2,500 hectares, so we can say that this is what we reached in the Finance Act in 2020 and that we did not achieve any more, but that we can just as well come to the conclusion that it is a much larger area that we can realise in the spring. It is, of course, important what we will get through a third reading and to what extent we can ensure recreational values, biodiversity considerations, nature considerations broadly. It's important. Once we have taken the third reading, there is, of course, a board of directors to be set up and a kind of advisory committee which will then have to be next to it, and it is then proposed that the Minister has an almost arbitrary provision over which the Minister for Climate and Energy can appoint a single board member, and otherwise it is the Minister for the Environment who can appoint the rest. One might wonder why the climate minister, when it is a climate fund, has only one seat over there. I would really like to know whether the Minister does not see that it would be an advantage for someone to be appointed, such as the President-in-Office of the Council. represented some organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123618	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123619	In relation to the board and the advisory committee, I would say that what we need is that it is a board that is competent to ensure that we serve the purpose, namely that we get the maximum possible climate for the money with the CO2 There will also be a need for a broad portfolio of competences, and therefore, naturally, there will also be a need to look at the composition that needs to reflect it, so that you have different competences on the board. However, I do not share exactly the same pessimism in relation to the authority of the Minister for the Environment to appoint the board, but we can look at that differently. I also know that the climate minister, who has been involved in this work and with whom I have also had meetings along the way, supports the construction that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123715	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123716	It may be that the Minister has a month's time towards the third reading to reconsider whether it might be an advantage that there was a representative of the KL and the Danish Nature Conservation Association and other associations. After all, the Minister can choose to appoint them, because it is not a question of having to appoint someone only from the office hall. I'd like to hear from the minister about something when she's going to get some more money. There are some discussions on CO2 2 Could the Minister see that it was positive if we now moved some CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123758	Exactly in relation to CO2 But what we have secured with the bill here, and which is in fact what is at the heart of the rapporteur's question, is whether new state money can enter the Danish Climate Forest Fund. And there can be. That is also why the announcement we have made on air travel will mean that the money will also be added to what is already in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123829	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123831	I would just like to ask the Minister how he sees it, if you could say, voluntaryness, which must be as part of this, i.e. if the Minister can put some extra words on it. As far as I am concerned, it is at least essential that it is precisely the case in the agreements that are then concluded and subsequently entered into, that cooperation with regard to access conditions both for the public sector and also for authorities which subsequently have to enter into and do different things, also takes place according to all kinds of legal principles, so that there is a voluntary nature to the things that are being concluded, so that you do not feel like a pilot, that an agreement has now been reached, and that, moreover, you have no more to say on your own soil. Can the Minister please clarify the concerns which I have at least met in several places?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119123914	I would like to try to elaborate on that. First of all, we are thinking that it is precisely pilots who are voluntarily involved in this. In other words, one must be able to say as a pilot: I would like to contribute to the setting up of forests on my land. Or: I'd like to help take out some low-level soil. And then it gets tangled on the land that it is the way that the land should be used forward-looking. If we then want to ensure that there is credibility, that we do not then, for example, start cultivating low-level soils, then we also need to have a control mechanism to ensure that we can also go out and visit that project and say: We can in fact vouch for the CO2 I think everyone has an interest in that, both the pilots who contribute, but also the Danish state, which is the target of this construction here. So, of course, we need to find a good way of working together, but I have every expectation of it being possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124016	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124017	I am pleased with that answer, and I was actually hoping that that would be the answer. A little further: how can this be done with the various agreements that can be concluded, i.e. the compensation that can be received as a pilot owner? Can it be done very individually, or will it be somewhat such a fixed template, where it is said that this is the price, take it or leave it, if you may say so here in the Assembly, but, as I said, in New Danish, there is no room for negotiation? Or is it? How flexible can you be in these agreements? Because there are probably different approaches from the pilots to what you really want as compensation and what you can alternatively use your land for. So how flexible is the option that is being proposed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124055	What is very important about the Climate Forest Fund is that it is additional. In other words, it cannot be a substitute for something to which we are legally linked in advance, nor can it replace some of the initiatives that will already be taken. However, the products that the Climate Forest Fund will have will be different, and thus there is also an opportunity as landowner to look at what one has the most interest in and what one would like to contribute in relation to land on one's land. And then there will be a registration which will ensure that once you have received the one-off compensation, it will CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124128	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124141	The debate is open. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124201	We want to protect consumers from illegal chemistry, even when they shop on the Internet. It should be safe to be a consumer in Denmark, and with this bill we make it safer to be a consumer. This also applies online. If you look at the title of this bill, I know it might sound pretty technical, and both the European Union is involved, national rules are involved, and rules that expire on our pesticide strategy are involved, but I would like to add three points of impact. Firstly, it is important for operators to provide some information, for the authorities to be able to obtain product samples, for example. buy an item on a web site without having to write that it is thus the authorities who buy it so that they can make it a little more anonymous and that they simply also have an opportunity to remove products from the market, from the online market, yes, in the end could actually block a website. The second part of the bill is that we do not want illegal chemicals in the goods. The authorities must be able to publish if illegal chemicals are used and they must be able to seize goods and much more. The last part I would like to stress is about where we in the Danish Parliament have a pesticide strategy, and here we would like the Minister to be able to register producers, importers, suppliers, storekeepers, distributors and dealers of pesticides for professional use. And what are we talking about here? Yes, we are talking about preventing illegal pesticides, both if you buy and sell something that is illegal and has always been. Sometimes it happens that a spray poison is made illegal for one reason or another; one finds out that there is something dangerous, and then it has to get away from the market, and we have to be able to ensure that. I think that this really is strengthening the work of the authorities in protecting consumers. We do not want goods with illegal chemistry suddenly to appear. When you buy a product, also online, you should be able to be comfortable that there is nothing dangerous in it. Why is this so important? Well, that's because we know that when you've gone through a chemical composition of a species and found it dangerous and thus made it illegal, it's because there's something harmful. Then it is because we, as people, do not benefit from being exposed to all the chemical substances in the world. Sometimes there may even be cocktail effects between different substances. We are deeply concerned about all this in the Social Democratic Party, and it is a question of ensuring the health of the Danes and guaranteeing the Danes an option so that they are not exposed to illegal chemical content. It may sound technical, but this bill is very good, so I am happy to say that we in the Social Democratic Party would like to strengthen the opportunity for consumers to avoid illegal chemistry, which is why we can of course also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124645	Thank you. I can simply refer to Mrs Mette Gjerskovs's excellent description of the substance of the draft law. As has been said, there is also an EU track that we are implementing in Danish legislation. Of course, we support this at a time when we also want to live up to these obligations. Then, as has been said, there is also a follow-up to the pesticide action plan, which was established under our government, on our watch. That is why, of course, we are also pleased that the new government is working on these matters. The importance of this, I think, Mrs Gjerskov has described very well in relation to the safety that must of course be vis-à-vis consumers and to the content of the various products that can be bought. So with the few, but modestly well-chosen remarks, we in the Left will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124743	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124755	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by saying on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we can also support the proposal. There are several reasons for this. First of all, it must be said that it must always follow the developments that exist. We are also pleased that the authorities are given these opportunities to control companies, and even though we often and often are thundering against the European Union, it must also be said that in these areas it makes absolutely sense that we have some uniform ways of working, both in relation to nature, but indeed also in relation to the competitiveness that should be within the European Union. That is why we can support the proposal. It provides a new framework, which is good for both companies, but certainly also for the environment, and it is also good for us to be able to carry out proper controls in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124843	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I understand that it's sir. Stinus Lindgreen, rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119124852	Thank you. Yes, my colleague was just about to hold some debates, so I was allowed to hold this rapporteur's speech on L 95. The law complements the rules of the EU Market Monitoring Regulation. The new rules include, inter alia: the possibility of obtaining information on software embedded in products, the possibility of performing market surveillance under concealed identity and the possibility of blocking access to an online interface if products presenting a serious risk are placed on the market. The law extends these rules to all chemicals, including those not covered by EU legislation. There should be no difference between the possibility of supervising dangerous products, whether they are covered by the Market Surveillance Regulation or national rules. The draft law also provides for the introduction of a publication system; for the prohibition of products where the supervisory authorities cannot obtain the necessary information; for the taking of samples from Internet shops at their own expense; for seizures; and finally, the draft law empowers the Minister to lay down rules on registration requirements. This is a follow-up to the agreement on a pesticide strategy concluded between the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. The Radical Left therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125031	I should remember that I should greet the SF and say that they support that bill here, and so does the Enhedslisten. I would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward this extremely important legislative proposal. So there is good reason for tightening up. After all, there are now some tightenings where there is some illegal Internet trade that will be harder to operate. A power to prohibit the sale, import and use of substances, mixtures and goods will be introduced when the supervisory authority does not obtain the information requested. There are, among other things: It is also a tightening-up which gives you the power to carry out seizures to a greater extent than has been the case in the past. It is, after all, a good thing if illegal drugs and products are being traded that more can be done. This is about removing the use of dangerous chemicals such as pesticides. and other means of control are one of the highest environmental priorities of the Enhedslisten. Pesticides are poisonous and many pesticides have effects similar to those of hormones, and are fat soluble. This means that they are difficult to break down, both in human bodies and in the bodies of animals and out in nature, among other things. in the aquatic environment. That is why there is every reason to be restrictive about what are some pesticides that must be. We have just to note that Denmark has been using too dangerous chemicals for far too long, especially in agriculture. In February of this year a report was published on groundwater screening, where 33 illegal substances were found. As to how many there were, one or more substances were found in every five boreholes, and three of these substances have never been allowed to be used in Denmark. Then you might ask, How did they get there? In other words, by measuring our groundwater, our drinking water, it can be shown that there must be someone importing illegal substances into agriculture. It is important to fight it, and if this bill can be a step on the way, we think it is important. But it is also important to follow up and continue to measure what we find in our groundwater, what we find out in nature, and then hunt down those who use illegal toxins. So Enhedslisten and SF support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125303	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125312	Bill No. L 95 is a proposal that is about harmonising with the European Union. It is a complement to the Market Monitoring Regulation as regards the Chemicals Act and the Environmental Protection Act, as well as the Fertilizer and Soil Improvements Act. It is always good to harmonise with the European Union and create a level playing field across the European Union, so we support that. A special effort is being made here in the digital sector, i.e. digital sales, and the control of the authorities is being tightened up and the possibilities of sanctioning Internet shops and so on. The only comment on our part is that in this way we think that the powers sound reasonable if the way in which they are implemented follows normal administrative rules, and that is such a thing that contains the consultation of the parties, and there must be a reasonable suspicion of demanding a sample product, and there must be proportionality in terms of seizure and destruction. So we assume that normal administrative principles are introduced as a way of dealing with these rules, and with those comments they support the Conservative Regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125448	The Minister for the Environment has put forward a draft law amending the law on chemicals and environmental protection, fertilisers and soil improvers. The new powers include the possibility of obtaining information; the possibility of carrying out market surveillance under concealed identity; the possibility of requiring changes or removal of content on online interfaces; the possibility of blocking access to an online interface if products presenting a serious risk are placed on the market; the power to establish a publication system; the power to prohibit the sale, import and use of substances when the supervisory authorities do not obtain the information they have requested; and the power to carry out seizure to a greater extent than in the past. In addition, the Minister for the Environment is authorised to set up a registration system for manufacturers, suppliers, importers, exporters, dealers, storage containers or distributors of industrial pesticides. It is a comprehensive list of new powers, but the measures seem sensible. It is, of course, positive that the supervisory authorities have the necessary powers for effective supervision so that they can take action against products which pose a serious risk. I also see from the consultation answers that the draft law is generally welcomed by the business community. New citizens can therefore support Bill No. L 95.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125616	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119125622	Thank you for that and also thank you for your positive reception. It may sound a bit technical when you read it, but the legislative proposal that we have to deal with today will strengthen the supervisory authorities' tools and give them better powers to ensure that the legislation is complied with. In this way it is both an important legislative proposal, I think, but also one that I have great expectations of will have a concrete meaning out there. There are three main areas. First of all, the legal basis for a registration system for distributors of pesticides. Secondly, a number of powers for better control of chemicals in products, including in particular: a publication system. Thirdly, a number of powers for effective supervision, particularly with regard to trade on the Internet. With the powers, we are implementing the market monitoring regulation in the environmental field, and I am pleased that there was broad political support for the pesticide strategy that we agreed on in 2017, where the objective of the strategy, among other things. is to reduce the infringement rate in relation to the sale and possession of illegal pesticides. Nowadays, the chemical inspection only controls the companies with which they are familiar, and knowledge is largely based on estimates and experience. The draft law will first of all provide for a requirement for the registration of all those who negotiate these pesticides for professional use in Denmark. The purpose of the registration system is thus to give the chemical inspection a better basis for both planning and targeting its supervision and control, both in terms of frequency and in terms of length of the individual companies. In addition, it will also provide an overview of dealers who can be used to enable the Danish EPA to fulfil the EU legal obligations on reporting. When we know all the links in the chain and the overview is also gathered somewhere, it will also be much easier for the authorities to communicate directly with the dealers and for example. inform them that they must remove funds from the shelves if they have been banned. This could reduce the risk of funds being banned being sold to professional consumers. Secondly, with the legislative proposal, I will ensure that in the field of chemicals we have even better opportunities to monitor and control chemicals in products. This is important because consumers must be able to trust that the products they buy also meet the requirements for chemicals, whether they are products that they physically take down from a shelf in a store or whether they do so on the Internet. And that is also why I propose to set up a publication system which will allow the supervisory authority to publish, for example. which products are illegal and also who the dealer is. It can, for example, be done. be a situation where prams with illegal chemicals have been sold. The scheme will, on the one hand, inform consumers so that they can avoid those products and, on the other hand, benefit those companies which use a lot of resources to ensure that their products comply with the rules, that is to say. aid to all those who actually follow the rules we have decided, but also a whip for those companies that do not. I also propose that we increase the possibility of confiscating illegal products so that fewer products reach Danish consumers. This is necessary because we can see that private trade on the Internet is increasing. The Corona crisis has also increased the need for this change, because we can see an extensive import of illegal biocides in the form of hand alcohol for both private and business operators. In the future, seizures may be carried out in all cases where, in the specific situation, it is the most appropriate response to an infringement, e.g. at the airport, if the product cannot be legalised and that is not possible today. I also propose that the supervisory authority should be able to take samples from online shops at the company's own expense. It will equalise online shops with physical shops, and it will also be easier for the supervisory authority to decide whether a product complies with the rules. And then I propose that the supervisory authority be given the power to issue orders against the sale, import and use of products when companies do not provide the information they have been asked for. This possibility has so far been limited in cases where the company does not disclose the chemical composition of a product, although they have been asked to do so. This has meant that, in relation to all other types of information, the supervisory authority has only had the very resource- and time-consuming opportunity to report to the company because it has not been possible to prohibit, for example, sales. Therefore, the possibility of issuing injunctions and prohibitions now extends to all kinds of information. As the third element, the draft law contains provisions implementing the EU's environmental market surveillance regulation. The aim of the regulation is to ensure uniform and effective market surveillance and control of products throughout the EU. This means, inter alia, that the national authorities must have a number of specific powers. Denmark already carries out sound environmental control, but there is a need to extend the toolbox in a number of ways in order to meet the requirements of the regulation. Among other things: there is a need to adapt the Danish rules to the new digital reality facing supervisory authorities. Firstly, the authorities must be able to obtain all the information necessary to assess whether a product complies with EU legislation. There can be, among other things: need access to the software products, details of the distribution network and information on the ownership of a website. Secondly, our authorities must be able to exercise control without making themselves known, that is. under covert identity. The possibility of checking under hidden identity ensures that the authorities are not given very good products or are told that the product is sold out when the webshop can see that it is the control that buys. Thirdly, the authorities are given the opportunity to require illegal products to be removed from websites, apps and the like, or they may require changes to the content, for example. by requiring a warning to be displayed when the user enters the page. And if a command to remove or change content is not followed, it will be possible to block the online interface completely, for example. the entire website if the products present a serious risk. In this way, consumers are protected from traders who, despite the authorities' instructions, sell or distribute dangerous products. In addition, the draft law goes beyond the requirements of the market surveillance regulation in some areas. On the one hand, we propose that some of the new powers should apply not only when monitoring common EU legislation, but also when monitoring national rules in the Chemicals and Fertilisers Act, on the other hand, it is proposed that online interfaces, for example. webshops can be blocked, not only when a command to remove or change content is not followed, but also in repeat cases. And this is an important step, which I am also pleased to see, among other things. Danish Occupation backs up and will provide better opportunities to stop companies that simply replace an illegal product with another illegal product. So I look forward to following the application of the law in practice, because we have also been discussing with each other for a long time here how to ensure that there is in fact a high level of protection for consumers and the environment, even when there is online trade. I can also only welcome the fact that in this way the Danish People's Party will find an extra joy in EU cooperation when we come forward with this proposal. Against this background, I would like to thank you for all the good statements so that we can ensure better enforcement in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130414	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister for the Environment, and it is from Mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130421	I just want to make sure that general management principles are followed in these cases, i.e. that there must also be a justification for going in and demanding tests from the company and that there must be a consultation of the parties if decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130440-2	I would actually suggest that we respond in writing to some of that, because it is clear that there must of course be rules in this area. But for example... In relation to the question of whether there should be a party hearing, it also depends on whether there is a decision. So there will be a lot of technique in whether you do it one way or the other. But what I have at least noted is that we, too, on the part of the Danish business community, have support for this proposal, because we see that there will be unequal competition in places where some can continue to trade illegal products, because there is not a large enough hammer on the part of the supervisory authorities. That is what we want to give them, so that as a consumer you can act safely at home, but also that Danish business should not actually experience unequal competition with those who do not comply with our common rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130527	Sir. Egil Hulgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130528	We are completely in line with that. It is only a question of maintaining legal certainty in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130538	We really want to be involved in legal security. But I also believe that there is the frustration that has built up with me at least over several years, when we have been able to see repeated examples of toys for children with chemistry in which we do not comply with the rules we have agreed with each other. If companies continue to sell such illegal products over and over again, we will also have to find new tools. Therefore also the publication scheme, therefore also the possibility of blocking websites. And then, of course, we have to follow the legislation and see if it also works as we would like. But I actually find that there really is a need.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130614	Thank you very much to the Minister for the Environment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130630	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130650	Thank you for that, President. We must take care of our nature, and the state of Danish nature is unfortunately not one that has improved since 2013. It was a bottom-up task to improve the conditions of our common nature. The legislative proposal we are discussing today aims to ensure that the implementation of the 2004 EU Environmental Liability Directive is, of course, correct. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the definition of protected species and habitat types in the environmental liability directive be implemented more closely into legislation, and it is also proposed that the person responsible for environmental damage should always be responsible for preventing and remedying environmental damage. In the legislation as it is now, it is possible, in exceptional circumstances, to exempt a person responsible for environmental damage if, for example, it: has taken place because of negotiations or actions by a third person and where the person responsible has taken the appropriate security measures. So if the person responsible can prove not to be guilty of any environmental damage, it has not been possible to act further. Of course, we're changing that now. The draft law proposes to introduce a duty of action for the person responsible so that it is not possible in future not to act on environmental damage or on the risk of environmental damage. The necessary measures must now be ensured. However, there will be situations where the person responsible does not have to bear the costs in the particular circumstances which have previously been exempted from liability for environmental damage. That is why it is proposed at the same time to set up a compensation scheme so that those responsible for environmental damage, who are exempt from costs, can act and recover the costs that have then been caused by the damage. In addition, the draft law proposes a more directive-by-law implementation of the definition of protected species and habitat types. The environmental liability directive aims to prevent and remedy damage to our nature. This involves damage to our soil, our aquatic environment, protected habitats, protected species and species habitats. With the implementation of this definition, we extend the protection of our nature, so that the environmental damage law will also apply to damage to protected species and their habitats and protected habitats both within and outside the designated Natura 2000 sites without exception. Action must be taken if there is damage to our nature or if there is a danger. This bill therefore strengthens the protection of our nature and helps to ensure that our implementation of the Environmental Liability Directive is close to directive. That is why the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130926	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119130938	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the debate. So far there has been no debate, one might say. I think that Mr. Kasper Roug, of the Social Democrat Party, very well reviewed the content, and I must therefore make it clear that the Left too supports this proposal in view of the fact that, of course, we want to comply with the EU legal obligations which it also contains in relation to the environmental liability directive, and also, of course, that we want to create a greener nature and a greener environment, in which we naturally also need to prevent possible environmental damage. So, with those words, as I said, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131027	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131037	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party can also support L 96. What we do, of course, notice is that we are now looking at the polluter or those who might be. We think it is a very good thing that we are now getting clarification, that we cannot run away from that, unfortunately, we have seen it in the past and it is being made very clear in the proposal here. I don't want to go deeper either. It has been so well presented by the other rapporteurs. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131104	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131115	Thank you. After all, the substance has been examined quite brilliantly by colleagues who were up here earlier. The bill here implements parts of the environmental liability directive. It is a healthy principle that the polluter pays and that it is made clear that the person responsible for environmental damage is always obliged to act. This is important both in terms of preventing and remedying environmental damage. With those words, I can say that the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131139	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur for the SF in the Chamber, but it may be that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has a greeting with him. It will turn out. Nevertheless, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur must be allowed to speak, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131157	Then I'd better answer the exciting question first and say that I have a greeting from the SF, which, like Enhedslisten, supports the intentions of this bill, but also sees some criticisms. Environmental damage is serious damage to nature both on land and on water. They affect important and protected species and international nature conservation areas, such as: Natura 2000 sites, and they are also damage that may have been caused by professional activity. Two years ago large tanks of thousands of litres of fertiliser water broke down in Fredericia, and 2,700 tonnes of nitrogen poured into Lillebælt. The release could not be characterised as environmental damage. It is cases like this that contribute to the fact that we in Denmark have 37,000 polluting reasons. That is a disastrously high figure. The environmental damage law has long needed tightening up, but this bill deserves to be simplified. We simply need to make it easier to repair damage to the environment. First of all, it is a question of not creating any more major pollutions and then enabling the authorities to have a smoother and faster procedure in the major environmental matters so that those who cause the damage can be held to account. Processes must be made easier so that quick decisions can be taken. The Enhedslisten welcomes the tightening up, but we note that the draft law is still very complex. It can be seen among other things. that no substantive consultation reply has been submitted or that none of the parties to the hearing has any comments whatsoever on a 58-page legislative proposal. The Enhedslisten is calling for the draft law to become less complex and more directive-closer. In this way it will become a more tangible tool for both the municipalities and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. We note that the Law Compass, which is a panel of experts' recommendations for a future structure for environmental legislation, describes the bill as being unnecessarily complex. The Enhedslisten warmly welcomes the extension of the protection of habitats and habitats to species outside the Natura 2000 area, and we welcome the fact that the person responsible is always subject to a duty of action. However, we also propose that leading experts be more involved in the legislative work. We support the intentions of the draft law, but we believe that it can be done better. As with the generational pollution, the hops are that we should not let the next generations inherit the pollution of the past, and it is our responsibility to clean up and place responsibility for environmental damage and not make it unnecessarily difficult. When I look at this text, I also think about the extent to which we should then have legislation that can also place responsibility on state and local authorities. What is it like in relation to the lack of habitat assessment of marine farms, which are more or less illegal in Denmark, and in this way it is the state that has not implemented the Habitats Directive in time? Does this legislative proposal make it possible to ensure that the state also complies with the guidelines specified by the European Union and relating to the environment? And to what extent is this also something that can help us keep the municipalities in their ears, because it can also be municipalities, such as the municipalities. have been responsible for landfills and may have different options to clean up or not to clean up? To what extent does this law ensure that municipalities can be ordered to clean up after themselves? So there are a few things to clarify in a committee procedure and I look forward to the Minister giving some reflection on whether this law should not be made much better and much shorter.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131618	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Egil Hulgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131627	Thank you, Madam President. A year ago, the EU commented on this law and pointed out that the Danish implementation was not sufficiently close to the definition of natural habitat types and that the person responsible for environmental damage always has an obligation to act and is particularly responsible for preventing and remedying environmental damage. It is a good principle for the polluter to pay, so we, the Conservatives, support the implementation of the environmental liability directive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131659	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131707	Thank you for the floor. The Government has put forward a draft law amending the Environmental Damage Act, the Environmental Protection Act and other laws. The environmental liability rules ensure that the person responsible for environmental damage must take the necessary preventive and remedial measures and bear the costs thereof. That's obviously reasonable. This bill will extend the obligation that, in future, the person responsible for an environmental damage or an imminent risk of environmental damage, in accordance with the Environmental Liability Directive, shall also be obliged to take preventive and remedial measures if the damage is caused by the actions of third parties and where the person responsible has taken appropriate safeguards. However, the person responsible will not have to bear the costs in all cases. In New Citizens we welcome the bill. It makes good sense that the person responsible should act in relation to environmental risks, even if it is the actions of third parties that trigger it, but that he can be compensated for the costs. New citizens can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131814	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. As I do not see a rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance in the Chamber, I can give the floor to the Minister for the Environment, who has already jumped up here on the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119131825	We shall continue with the fast-track approach in this Chamber. The European Commission has announced in a communication to the Danish Government that parts of the Danish implementation of the 2004 Environmental Liability Directive do not comply with the Directive. The government has therefore looked at the Danish rules and, in accordance with the Commission's request, we have decided to amend the Danish implementation of the directive on two points: the rules on the liability of the person responsible in the event of environmental damage and the rules on the damage to protected species and habitats covered by the environmental damage concept. The aim of the draft law is therefore to ensure the correct implementation of the Environmental Liability Directive. At the same time, we ensure that the person responsible for environmental damage, such as: come from a polluting company, in future always have a duty to clean up. This is for the benefit of all of our environments. Environmental damage control is complex and extensive, and I am also aware that there is a desire for regulation to be implemented. In this situation, however, we are merely correcting the criticisms raised by the Commission. Today, the Environmental Liability Directive has been implemented in the Environmental Damage Act, the Environmental Protection Act and several other laws and aims to prevent and remedy future major damage to soil, water and protected species and habitat types, the so-called environmental damage. The rules include the pollution or damage to our nature and aquatic environment, where there is a significant negative impact as a result of the damage, and the contamination on soil which poses a significant risk of human health being adversely affected. The environmental liability rules here ensure that the person responsible for environmental damage immediately takes the necessary preventive measures or, if the environmental damage has occurred, takes any practical steps to remove or otherwise deal with the pollutants or other harmful effects in question immediately. This is done to limit and prevent further environmental damage and adverse effects on human health or further deterioration of exploitation potential. The starting point is that the person responsible for the damage bears the costs of the preventive and remedial measures. The directive is therefore based on a principle, as has also been mentioned earlier today, that the polluter should pay for environmental damage. The rules on environmental damage are therefore the responsibility of those responsible for the operation of an undertaking. The Environmental Liability Directive contains two types of liability: an objective responsibility for particularly polluting activities, in which the person responsible should not have made mistakes in order to be covered, and a culpa-based responsibility for damage to protected species and habitat types where the person responsible should have made a mistake. The rules we are amending here relate only to objective responsibility and could, for example, relate to the discharge of pollutants into the aquatic environment. The starting point here is that you are always responsible and have to pay for repairing the damage. However, according to the rules in force, the person responsible for environmental damage must not, in some cases, take the necessary action if, for example, The damage was caused by someone else. In other words, there is no obligation to start cleaning up. That's what the government is proposing to change. In future, the person responsible for environmental damage will also be obliged, in the specific cases, to take preventive and remedial measures to benefit the environment of all of us. The person responsible for environmental damage will therefore not be able to claim that there are situations where responsibility has been relaxed in relation to the directive. In this way, we ensure that there can no longer be stray environmental damage and that there will always be someone responsible to clean up the environmental damage caused by, for example, environmental damage. polluting activities. In future, however, the person responsible will not have to bear the costs of environmental damage or the imminent danger of environmental damage. For example, the person responsible shall not bear the costs if the damage has been caused by another person. In this context, I am talking about the situations in which the person responsible is not in control of the circumstances which led to the damage to the environment. In such cases, the government proposes that in future the person responsible should be able to recover reasonable costs from the State, and this is in line with the rules of the Environmental Liability Directive. It is important for me to state that it will continue to be the very clear starting point that whoever is responsible for these major damage to our environment and nature, which is an environmental damage, must also in future clean up after themselves and pay for it. At the same time, it is important to establish that, fortunately, we have very few environmental damage cases in Denmark. Since the adoption of the Danish environmental damage problems in 2008 and until now, there has been only one case in 2018 in which the rules on environmental damage were applied. In accordance with the "polluter pays' approach, the undertaking responsible in the specific case itself incurred the cost of remedying. Therefore, there have so far been no cases in which the State would have to bear the costs of remedying it. It must therefore be assumed that the frequency of the cases covered by this bill will be very low. At the same time, we propose to change the definition of protected species and habitat types in the Environmental Damage Act. The amendment means that the definition will be in line with the environmental liability directive. This means that when we talk about environmental damage to protected species and their habitats and habitats, the environmental damage law applies both within and outside the designated Natura 2000 sites without exception. Protection has to a certain extent been limited to Natura 2000 sites, and protection is now extended to habitat types and habitats from Annex II species of the Habitats Directive outside Natura 2000 sites. It is a bit complicated matter, but the government hopes that the Folketing will be able to agree to our proposal for a law amending the environmental damage law and the law on environmental protection and various other laws. I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132410	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment on the draft law, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132416	It is of course interesting that this is now being tightened up with who is responsible for environmental damage and that it can also include areas outside Natura 2000 sites. Then I sit and think: what about these marine farms, where it is in this sense the state that has not implemented a habitats directive, and then there are some marine farms which are more or less legal and which emit pollution, which may well be environmental damage? Will it be the state, or will it be these marine farms, which are more or less illegal and are not responsible for everything that can be held responsible for environmental damage by the bill that is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132457	I think you have to take things in the right order. The legislative proposal we are debating today is about correcting the criticisms made by the Commission that the directive has not been properly implemented. At the same time, however, there is a trail running alongside the whole field of marine agriculture, in which the rapporteur has also been very interested, and with good reason, because it has emerged from the reports of the DA that there has not been enough control of either location permits or habitat assessments on the marine farms concerned. That is why, in addition to the politically decided action plan, there is also an administrative trail which is now under way, where we have to assess each marine farm in order to say: is it within the rules or where is there a lack of it? Whether it will then be an environmental damage will always be a concrete assessment, but that is not where the process is right now, in relation to the administration that is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132557	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132558	Thank you. Now the Minister mentioned that this regulation could be written through and that the Minister was aware that there had been some criticism of this bill. Is it to be understood that the Minister would like to reduce the number of pages of this bill before we have the third reading, or does this mean that after the third reading the Minister will immediately embark on simplification work so that we can have a new proposal that is more easy to deal with for municipalities and other authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132630	What that means is that I know that there has been that criticism, not just now, in relation to the fact that it is very complex legislation, which today's legislative procedure may also be an expression of. But it is also an old and well-known criticism, because it was expressed as such when the draft law was first implemented in 2007, if I am not mistaken. So it is a well-known criticism, but there are no current plans to do that transcription, which will also be a real, really great work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132704	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132708	It was really Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's remark, which just made me take the floor. When we talk about the 'polluter pays' principle, I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that this does not apply if a production permit has been granted. Søren Egge Rasmussen aquaculture, but it could be all sorts of other production permits within the applicable rules. Well, there are vvm-analyses and all sorts of other things you have to live up to in order to get a production permit. So if you stay within that and thus have a legal authorisation to produce a given production that has an environmental impact or may have an environmental impact, but is within the rules that apply, then you are not covered by the responsibility, according to the bill we are talking about here. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132746	The reason why I said that you probably have to take things in the right order is that there is a regulatory work going on right now in relation to all Danish marine farms. And there you can't write that conclusion in advance, that is, in relation to what it is important that there has been no control over location permits, and there's also this habitat impact assessment that needs to be done for all Danish marine farms. But that is not what we are dealing with with the draft law here; it is only to correct the criticism from the Commission that we have said that we have not implemented what we should have done on the Danish side. But the expectation is not that it will be of great importance or to a large extent, because there are quite a few environmental damage in Denmark that has been covered by the directive since it was introduced back in 2007.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132834	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132835	Well, I agree with that. We are not discussing aquaculture here, but now it was just an example of the fact that when we talk about the 'polluter pays' principle, it is true that, if it concerns something, we can say that, in addition to what has been approved within the applicable environmental rules, that is to say, production which in some sense affects the environment, but which has been allowed to do within the rules, such as the vvm rules that apply, is not what we are talking about in this context. That is more what I wanted the Minister to confirm, and I think the Minister agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132903	As a starting point, I agree that what we are talking about here is environmental damage. And there are various responsibilities, as I also outlined in my opening speech, in relation to when you are obliged to do something, and, as such, whether you are responsible or not. However, I would like to refrain from putting it down on some specific examples, because there are a number of areas in which authority is being dealt with in general which, in general, should be allowed to go their way, regardless of the legislative proposal that is in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119132934	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119133033	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119133054	You might actually wonder a little. It was Environment Minister Lea Wermelin who was up here just before me, and yet I have to put down the speaker desk. Well, that's something else entirely. Thank you for the floor. Two motions for resolutions have been tabled, B 6 and B 7, both of which concern the introduction of an age limit for genital mutilation. As I understand it, I have been told immediately that B 6, which was to be dealt with subsequently, should not be dealt with today anyway. In any case, it is proposed that they should be dealt with in conjunction with each other, one as a citizen's proposal and the other as a general proposal. We shall then begin with B 7, which has been tabled on the basis of a citizens' proposal. This resolution aims to introduce legislation that would in practice be a de facto ban on the genital mutilation of boys' children for non-medical reasons. This will make it very difficult for the Jewish minority to practice their faith in Denmark. The ritual of circumcision has a special significance for Jewish society. We need to be aware of this. First of all, it has a special significance for those parents who want to pass on that part of their culture and history to their children. There is no reason at all to believe that parents are evil barbarians or unethical people. They are ordinary parents who, like all of us, only want the very best for their children. For those of us who are rounded up by our Christian background and, at least for my own part, do not practice faith in any peculiar manifesto. In fact, if the truth is to come out, I am not a member of the association, but I feel quite strongly attached to the same circle of culture. Personally, I find it difficult to understand the ritual, and it is certainly not something that I am, for example. would expose my two sons. But it does not make sense to see the question of circumcision separated from a historical and valuable context. In this context, we need to raise our eyes and see the big picture. The Jews have been a persecuted people in Europe for many centuries... a persecution culminating in the dark chapter of Europe's history when many Jews were killed during the holocaust. The victory of the Allied forces in World War II and the survival of the Jews are not just a war victory. It stands as a victory for the free world, and it is the foundation of the free world. Out of that victory, our world standard and the values and standards that we are today building our free world on a world of democracy as a form of government, prosperity through trade between countries, a world which stands on the law and the law and not the law of the strongest or the most brutal, and which stands on international agreements between countries, human rights. If we are tempted for a moment to forget what has happened, if we do not guard against it a repetition, I would just urge, when it becomes possible physically or at least here mentally, to make a trip to Normandy and take cutlery of the thousands of white crosses that stand in strings in the American cemetery. The scary cross parade is a picture of what totalitarian thought sets lead to, what fascism and Nazism can lead to if we do not stop. On it If we forget to look after the Jews, we forget to look after ourselves. If we forget to look after the Jews, we forget to look after the values of the free world. Therefore, as a country, we must do what we can to protect the Danish Jews and remind each other that history must never repeat itself. We must avoid that Danish Jews consider leaving the country in which they were born and raised, because they feel unwelcome, and we must support that the Jewish community can live freely and thrive well in Denmark. In addition to the very special consideration for the Jewish minority, in addition to the very special historical context of the values and the world that is ours, a ban on circumcision will also have a large number of other perspectives, not least foreign policy perspectives. We will be one of the first countries in the world to introduce a ban on the genital mutilation of boys' children for nonmedical reasons if not it would attract considerable attention in large parts of the world. A number of countries would probably be critical of a ban and would turn against us. This applies not least to some of our most powerful allies and, above all, to our most powerful allies, namely the Americans. This will potentially have foreign policy implications for Denmark, for our relations with, among others, Denmark. The United States and Israel. Both countries, as everyone here knows, have a significant and widespread practice of genital mutilation of boys and therefore look with concern at a possible ban on genital mutilation of boys under 18 years of age. Denmark has no foreign policy interest in slamming the door in and breaking relations with our neighbours. In addition, according to its wording, the motion for a resolution calls for the introduction of a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years. It could in practice, depending on how to implement it, taken on the wording of making circumcision of women over 18 years of age legal. The government strongly rejects female circumcision of all ages, and female circumcision is an absolutely absurd instrument for women's oppression and completely incompatible with modern human vision. Personally, I see the circumcision of women and girls as an assault on people who should not take place anywhere in the world. Female circumcision, regardless of age, is punishable by our own criminal law. When female circumcision was made illegal, the Danish Health Authority noted that in no case can the genital mutilation of girls or young women be medically justified and that female genital mutilation poses the risk of a number of serious health consequences. But the very essence of our position, the government's position, is that the discussion about circumcision cannot be lifted off and should not be seen without a glimpse of the context of the historical and value context. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119133855	Thank you, Minister. Just in response to what the Minister said at the outset about the next proposal, B-6: I have just been informed that it will be withdrawn at the request of the proposer.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119133910	So we go back to the discussion of the citizens' proposal here, B 7, and there are a number of brief comments to the Minister. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119133921	Our history in the Western world is a long history of extending respect for human rights and also in recent years a respect for the human rights of children and the rights of children which they have for themselves and which do not depend on their parents to recognise these rights. I think it is absurd that we have a Minister of Justice in Denmark who says that this development must not take place in this area, because we are dealing here with a religious group which in history has been quite, quite unfairly persecuted. This does not change the fact that children's rights are important and that we have now reached a time when we have to say that one of the things parents cannot do to their children must also be that they must not cut parts of the child's body on an unborn child who cannot say no. We have reached that point now, and we cannot actually say no to that because of the terrible things that have happened to the Jewish people. We must justify this in our own right and not refer to the terrible things that have happened historically.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134038	That's wrong. It is objectively wrong to say that we have to lift this debate out of the context in which it is part of. In other words, it is a failure to recognise the values on which we stand. It is true that values have been developed over time, but if the outcome of World War II had been different from what it was, our values would have been destroyed by totalitarian regimes, Nazi and fascist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134105	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134106	However, recognising the rights of children, which are independent of what their parents will give them, is not fascism, is not totalitarianism. It is a way towards an individualistic view of man that man can exist in his own right and that human rights are not a product of the culture he comes from and are not a product of the parents he has. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether it is the Minister for Justice's view that children should have the right to keep their bodies intact, or whether the Minister for Justice believes that it must be a product of whether parents think that children should keep their bodies intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134150-2	Of course, all people, including children, exist in their own right. If anyone has fought for the right of children to exist and live freely, it is the Royal Danish Social Democracy, among other things. by abolishing the right of rebuke against which the blue part of the Folketing was opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134217	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134223	Yes, thank you for the floor. I have to say that I very much disagree with the Minister of Justice. For us in the SF, the child's right to his own body is simply over the consideration of religion, and I find it difficult to understand the position of social democracy here today. For as I usually perceive the Social Democrats, at least when it comes to Muslims, religion and consideration for it are very, very low on the list. But the question is, what has happened to the attitude on this issue, because now I will read a quote from the Prime Minister, as she said when she was social rapporteur in 2008: "I never understood why children should be cut like that. I do not believe that religion can legitimise the inflicting on one's children physical impairments and the pain that must be associated with it. We have discussed female circumcision, but I also believe that genital mutilation of boys should be banned. ▪ What has happened to the attitude since 2008?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134337	But it's wrong when it's presented as if it's for religious reasons alone. What is important here is our social values; it is whether we want to compromise on the values of the free world. It is whether we want to measure up to the victories for which others have fought and died, all the way, or whether we do not want to. That is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134410	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134410-2	Well, I didn't really hear the Minister of Justice relate to the Prime Minister's earlier quote. I asked what has changed in the attitude and why it is now suddenly okay to inflict pain on children for an action that is really unnecessary? Why is it that the consideration of religion is going to be higher here? For me, it is a matter of argument that reference is made to history and some foreign policy. In fact, I do not think that the government tends to be so pale about these issues that it cannot have an independent attitude as to whether or not we are inflicting harm on children.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134453	It is at best misunderstood at best misunderstood In fact, I think more that I am experiencing an argument resistance which is merely to take the view that is most easily bought, regardless of what it involves; regardless of what it is for a social context it must be seen in; regardless of what it may mean, but where one simply takes the view that is easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134530	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134533	I think it is frightening what the Minister is showing. First you make scare pictures of the Holocaust, the war, and apparently that's why we're sacrificing the kids in this game. So, we are in 2020 and not in the 1940s, and at the same time there is the answer that those who think otherwise make the easiest choice. Easiest choice? This is something we have been discussing for years and it has certainly not been easy for any of us. It may be easy for the Minister of Justice because it has not been on that table before, but it has been in the Health Committee and we have certainly spent a lot of time and work on this. So there is no easy choice about it, but it has to be an easy choice to say that you are completely stunned indifferent to the boys who get an injury that cannot be restored later. Does it mean nothing to the Minister with the damage that we have seen and that we can see figures showing that over 200 male children have had side effects, so they have had to be admitted to the hospital for the past few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134642	It is simply wrong to start your speech by saying that you are sacrificing the children in this context, speaking of what may be factually to refer to. It is simply nonsense to say that children are being sacrificed in this context, and that is also, in my opinion, a wrong record of the figures. It is clear, of course, that one of the elements to be addressed is whether this circumcision can be carried out without medical indication in patient safety and in the right conditions, and it is quite true that it is something that has been discussed in the health sector for a long time, a requirement that the procedure be carried out by a doctor or after a doctor's authorisation, that there is sufficient anesthesia and pain relief so that one cannot start where the questioner started, namely by saying that one is sacrificing the children, and then it is, excuse me, the easiest choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134736	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134737	When I say that you sacrifice the children, it's because you don't listen to the stories of some of the adults who have actually suffered damage from this. I had a man on the phone who told me that he had never had a relationship with a woman because he had been circumcised when he was a child. I have heard and seen many of the people who have not been allowed to make the free choice themselves, and when the Minister says that those numbers are not true, I would like the Minister to tell me right now what it is about the figures that are not true. Those figures have been reviewed for diagnostic codes, and in fact it is believed that there are even more who are injured but are not registered.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134817	As stated at our hearing the other day, the complications of the procedure are few, and the complications are very rare. I understand from the Ministry of Health and the Elderly that the Ministry is preparing a list of complaints concerning genital mutilation without medical indication, which will, moreover, be sent to the Legal Affairs Committee and will be sent to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. We must then take the view that, if we now make the easy choice that the questioner wishes to make, there is a considerable risk that this will happen anyway under far less reassuring circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134901	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134904	Thank you. I simply disagree with the fact that there are some easy choices here. It is, of course, simply a question of fundamental rights that come together: the right to their own body and freedom of religion. But that is not what my question is about. The Minister also mentioned in his speech that the citizens' proposal could open up female circumcision. We also think that this is a very, very big problem in the Enhedslisten, and that is why we are going to table an amendment to this proposal so that it does not open up female circumcision in the way it is formulated now. And I just want to know if the government can support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119134953	But we cannot support the proposal at all. I mean, we don't want to legitimize female circumcision in any way, as this proposal suggests. After all, we want the proposal to be voted down in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135011	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135012	That is precisely why the question is whether the government will support the idea that we can table an amendment in the Enhedslisten so as not to legitimise female circumcision, because I think that we are all against this House. So that is my question. But I understand that the government is not going to support the citizens' proposal as it stands. But perhaps you could help Enhedslisten along with an amendment to the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135044	We always want to be nice, so we'll help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135050	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135054	Thank you for the floor. In new citizens, we certainly do not think that this is an easy matter and an easy discussion. We have made our decision and we believe that the right of children to have their bodies intact is above the religious standards and cultures which are essential and important for several religions, but which in this situation must give way. And when I say "vige" it is conscious, because I have often heard the Social Democrats talk about that when religion and democracy collide, it is God who has a duty to give way. Will the Minister recognise that there are situations in which culture, standards and traditions are not necessarily such that one can just say that they have a duty to give way, but where culture, standards and traditions, especially those which are our own and closely linked to our own, can have such an impact on the community that it can be difficult to say that it is only about human rights and what else we have of such more fundamental discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135212	But the entry to the question is wrong. Because it is not just a question of saying that we have some children who must have some rights, in the face of some religious considerations. Because if you do, you take the easy view. For that would mean neglecting the historical, social and value-related context that needs to be applied and neglecting, for example: the foreign policy implications that it will have if Denmark, as the first country, is to go this way. So that counterposition is only a description of a subset of the problems we are discussing today and, in my opinion, a non-essential subset.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135258	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135258-2	When I ask, it is because it is a statement that social democracy often uses, that when religion and democracy collide, it is God who has a duty to give way, and it is easy to say when we are dealing with religions which are also political and which result in some totalitarian conditions in our society, and here I am talking about Islam, and that is probably why the Minister himself does not mention Muslims in his ministerial speech. But there is, of course, a real dilemma in terms of whether you want to maintain a culture and how it is related to democracy. Can the Minister not just acknowledge that right here the Social Democracy is on the other side, that is that it is not God who must give way, but there is democracy that must give way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135346-2	No, what is interesting in this context is that it is true that there are totalitarian religions too, and it is true that extremist Islamism is one of these totalitarian regimes that we must fight, just as we fought fascism, just as we fought Nazism, just as we fought communism. It is part of the historical heritage that falls with us to take that battle, and it must be fought on the basis of our values, the values that the Jewish people's presence in Denmark today is a symbol of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135426	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. We are now starting the series of rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135446	It is not an evil word about the Minister's height, but I will now allow myself to adjust a little on the platform. There is no doubt that the question of the genital mutilation of boys under 18 is a difficult issue filled with many dilemmas. I think the debate here today already bears witness to this. It is an issue that is not only about ethics and health, but also about Denmark's location in the world and in our collective history. Let me make it clear from the outset that social democracy is in principle opposed to the genital mutilation of young boys, but we do not believe that a ban is the way forward, and that is why we cannot support the two motions for resolutions or, rather, the one resolution that I now understand it is. As the Minister for Justice mentioned, the discussion about the circumcision of boys cannot be a single matter detached from our European history, where the Holocaust of the 1930s and 1940s stands as perhaps the darkest chapter of our history. We took a special responsibility for the Danish Jews, and in the years after the war the Social Democratic Party promised that there would never again be a Jewish persecution in Denmark. One must be able to live a Jewish life in Denmark, as one has been able to do for hundreds of years. If Denmark becomes the first country in the world to ban circumcision, we risk also sending the signal that the Jews are not welcome to send a signal that it is not possible to live a Jewish life in Denmark with the culture and rituals that belong to. I certainly do not believe that this is the intention of the proposers or of the vast majority of those who support a ban, but that may nevertheless be the consequence. Of course, Denmark should not be the first country in the world to ban the circumcision of boys' children. There are also some health-care arguments that I think are important to get into this debate. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that circumcision is carried out on a basis that is fully safe in the health sector. It can not be a negotiation at all, and that is also why we previously asked the Board for Patient Safety to update the professional guidance. The Management Board for Patient Safety has just published the guidance, and the Board considers that circumcision without medical indication can take place patient-proofly under the right conditions. It should be done after a doctor's approval and the doctor should be present during the procedure. And it requires adequate anesthesia and pain relief. The new guide also tightens the requirements. Among other things: be an emergency response should acute complications arise. We understand the dilemmas. I understand the dilemmas. However, as I started by saying, it is not only about ethics and health, but also about our place in world history, about our common understanding, about our opportunities for a Jewish minority to live a safe and secure life in Denmark, and that is why Social Democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135815	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135820	I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that the Social Democratic Party is against genital mutilation of boys, but that it is important for the Social Democratic Party that it is still possible in Denmark because it has to outdo Jewish boys. Approx. 2,000 male circumcisions a year. Of these, about ten circumcisions are Jewish. This means that there are approximately 1,990 circumcisions that mainly affect Muslim boys. If it is important for the Social Democrats not to free Jewish boys from being circumcised, will the Social Democrats at least free the 1,990 other boys who are circumcised each year from being circumcised?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119135911	The Social Democrats do not support the resolution, and that is why we do not support the proposal that it should be possible for circumcision to be allowed in Denmark. I think that the consequence of this will be that as a Jew you will get very, very difficult to live your life in Denmark. If we look out the window today, most Jewish schools in Denmark have police guards. If you go around the synagogue in Copenhagen, there is also police guarding. If you look around our European neighbouring countries, there is also a challenge in being able to live a Jewish life free from being persecuted. It is, of course, because we have historically promised that, whatever happens, one must have the opportunity to live a free life, and we believe that the consequences of supporting a ban will be that one cannot live a life as a Jew in Denmark and Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140006	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140007	I have never heard that Jews in Denmark live under police protection because they are afraid that they are being attacked by people who are against circumcision. I've never heard of that. I have heard, and I know, that Jews live under police protection in Denmark, because Islamist terrorist groups in particular want to strive for life. By the way, these are some people who also circumcise their boys. So I simply cannot understand what this has to do with the fact that Jews are subjected to injustices, historically it has been and today live under police protection because of Islamic terrorism. Why should this mean that we in Denmark must not protect boys' children from cutting parts of their bodies?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140100	I believe that the greatest privilege one can have as a politician is to gain the confidence that exists to lead a country. It also sometimes means that you face some insanely difficult choices and some insanely difficult dilemmas. I think this is a good example of one of them, for example. That if we made this decision and if we followed the attitude I can hear is the opinion of the questioner, would not be possible to live a Jewish life in Denmark. That is the decision, and that is the consequence that the Social Democrats are not prepared to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140141	The next brief remark is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140144	Now we have announced in the Danish People's Party that we have changed our position, and that is why, of course, I would also like to ask about the social democracy's shift in attitude. I'm here with the article "Policies Open to Ban Circumcision." It says: "Both the government parties, the Danish People's Party and the opposition find circumcision of boys problematic. The Social Democrats want a ban. Well, it's the completely converted world. And that is exactly where you hear a social rapporteur who was then Mette Frederiksen say: 'I never understood why children should be cut in that way. I do not believe that religion can legitimise the inflicting on one's children physical impairments and the pain that must be associated with it. When did you change your mind? Was it when you got the government post, or was it some other thing that did it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140237	But I can tell Mrs Liselott Blixt that I would not be able to circumcise my own children, and I believe in reality, and that is also what I was trying to say just now, that running a country and having responsibility sometimes also means seeing some of the complex issues that there are. What is the consequence, if you do this here and also refuse to see the historical dimension, is that the Jewish people do not have the opportunity to live and express their religion in Denmark, and that is the dilemma; that is the problem. We have said as a party after World War II that we will never allow Jewish persecution to take place again in Denmark, or that the Jews cannot live a free life in Denmark, and it is our belief that if you support a ban on circumcision, you will not be able to live a free life as a Jew in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140327	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140328	That's not true. So, 100 years ago, a movement was started in the Jewish faith, where one did not circumcise one's children: Brit shalom, it is said. It started in the United States, but it is actually moving closer and closer in Europe. Belgium is doing so, and there are also some places in Germany. You can look up on their website and actually see the rabbis who practice it. So this whole thing about how you can't be Jewish if you don't, isn't true. Sometimes, and I know this because the government and the governments that have sat are also happy, you have to push people a little to change what you think is wrong. Then you do it sometimes with a ban, and you practice it very well in government offices, so why not here to make sure that you change it? When other Jews can find out, the Danish Jews can also.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140419	I would be sorry if I were only to stand up here and repeat myself, but my attitude is that and the attitude of the Social Democrats is that we believe that the cost of imposing a ban will be the one that it will not be possible to live a Jewish life. I myself know from the questioner's own party that this is something that is a dilemma and that is difficult and about which there are differences of opinion and opinions. I also know that, in relation to the reference used by the questioner from the United States, it is a country where there are plenty of men who live good lives, even though they are circumcised. I do not suppose that, what is it, almost half of the American population think they have been mutilated or some of the other words I have heard have been used in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140500	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140504	Thank you for the floor. I understand that what the Prime Minister said in 2008 was stupid and that this is no longer true; it is not true at all that the Socialists think it is wrong to cut small children. Can the Socialist Group in the European Parliament not see for themselves that it is extremely strange that cosmetic interventions should not be made on children and young people, that they should not be tattooed, but that because one has some religion, one must sort out their genitals? Why do the Socialists think that children should have less protection than all other children in Danish society? And I don't want a lesson about Jewish persecution and everything else. I would like the Socialists to address this issue in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140555	Well, that's wrong. I think it's wrong. The rapporteur cannot decide what position and conviction I have, nor can I do the reverse. But I don't think you can see this question detached from history, and that's what's at the heart. That's what's hard. I couldn't dream myself of telling my boys to be circumcised, but I'm not a religious person either. Nor has it followed my population for over a thousand years, but it has for another group. It is a group of people who, after the greatest tragedy in Europe's history, we could guarantee security and security in Denmark. That is the security and security that I and the Social Democrats are not willing to risk if we support a ban. That is the dilemma. That's what's hard. And then the rapporteur can tell us what the rapporteur wants or does not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140642	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140643	But should I interpret it as saying that the consideration of religion is above the consideration of the child? That's what I'm looking for an answer to. And do not impress the rapporteur at all that 80%. of the Danish population actually supports an age limit? We have been very clear and have said that we do not want a ban on genital mutilation, but that we want an age limit. So that means that when you're old enough to be able to decide on it, you can actually do it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140712	Unfortunately, however, I also have to say some of what I have said before, i.e. that this is crazy dilemma, because it is full of something that is not only about ethics in the questioner or, as some would think, is a health argument, but also about our country, this Parliament and our own world history, and that is the dilemma, and that is the question. That's why a question like this can be full of crazy many dilemmas and be difficult. For some it may seem very straightforward, but I don't think it is. Because I think that taking a decision as far-reaching as a ban would mean potentially pushing an entire population out of Europe without the opportunity to live a safe life that we have promised them, and we are just not willing to take that risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140801	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119140811	Thank you. First of all, praise should be given to the Danes who have signed the citizens' proposal. This is an opportunity to discuss this matter in the Assembly today, and we have done so before, but it is an expression of a popular desire for it, and we take it constructively in the Left. However, I also think that the discussion on this issue today and our previous discussions shows the weakness of citizens' proposals and, incidentally, the strength of representative democracy, namely that politics is not only about meaning but also about pressing the button, if you like, and voicing the consequences of what you then think. It is, in fact, a very important part of politics; it is also what makes politics difficult, not just to mean it, but also to take the consequences of what you think. In the Confederal Group of the European United Left there is no doubt that we find this question of an age limit for the genital mutilation of boys, genital mutilation at all, difficult. There are different views, there are also among the Danes; in this way I think we have a representative parliamentary group and we have had many and long discussions. What we have arrived at is our position, as is the last time, when we discussed the matter here in the Parliamentary Assembly, that we are opposed to circumcision, but we are also opposed to a ban on circumcision, and we are also opposed to the age limit set here, and therefore the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Then why are we? We are, because there are consequences in voting for this resolution to introduce an age limit for genital mutilation as the first country in the world. There are some foreign and security policy implications which those members of the Folketing who appeared at the closed hearing, which was on Monday with a large number of ministers, seven, I think, will have heard some quite worrying consequences for Denmark, which impresses me and on the Confederal Group of the Left and hopefully on everyone who has participated. It was not so many people who had the opportunity to participate, and that is of course a little too bad. There are also some health consequences, which my good colleague, Mrs Jane Heitmann, mentioned the last time we discussed this, namely that an age limit of 18 years for boys would mean that believing Jews and Muslims would only be legally circumcised at the age of 18. According to medical science, circumcision later in life often means complications, and in other words, an age limit may lead to more complications for men who are circumcised than they would otherwise have had if they were circumcised as children. It also leans on the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, and the message from there is that neither advice nor advice is given on ritual circumcision of boys. Then there are also some other health consequences that are not just being solved with an age limit as proposed here. Then there are some religious consequences that the Minister of Justice mentioned, as was the Socialist rapporteur, namely that it will mean that the Jewish Society, which is a recognized religion in Denmark, will not necessarily be able to maintain their recognition if they would continue after it has been implemented here, if one had to implement it, to encourage the members of their congregation to have a religious circumcision carried out. The church minister has also explained this: it can be a consequence with a stroke underneath the can. So for those reasons, and there are also a number of others, but now my speaking time is limited here, we have to say that the consequences of voting for this proposal and being the first country in the world as a whole are too great for the Left to support this resolution. But we want to take part in the committee procedure, as there will be of the proposal, to look at: can something be done? Can you see if the new guide that has been made is the right one? Is there anything that can be done about information? What opportunities do we have to move towards taking better care of those who are adversely affected by this issue that we are discussing here today? We want to take part in looking at them too. Is anything happening in other countries? What rules do you have, for example? In Sweden? We have a constructive desire to look at this. But that does not change the fact that the Confederal Group of the European United Left does not support this resolution as it stands. We do not support genital mutilation, we do not support a ban, nor do we support the age limit proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141313	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141318	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen's speech gives me the opportunity to address this issue of Denmark's foreign and security policy. It is often mentioned, and it is mentioned as the first of the Left's rapporteurs in this matter, and it can be understood that the fear that Denmark's security policy will come under pressure with a ban must lead us not even here in Denmark to decide our rules as to whether or not to cut things off children. If, back in the '00s, we had a ban in Denmark on drawing drawings of the Prophet Muhammad and some had said that we should now lift the ban, because we have freedom of expression here in Denmark, and it should be allowed to draw the Prophet Muhammad, then Mr. Mr. Karsten Lauritzen stands on the platform and says: Unfortunately, we cannot do that, we cannot allow freedom of expression in this area, because how will Denmark be seen abroad and what about terrorism etc.? Is that the way in which the Left thinks we should organize our society, that is to say, because of threats from the outside world about what to do, we should do what the outside world thinks we should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141430	No, I can answer that question. Nor is it a growing threat of terror from authoritarian regimes or non-western countries for which I am concerned. But what impresses me is that those who are usually our friends, the United States, our closest allies, say very clearly, and I think the American ambassador in Denmark has also said that in the United States this proposal, if it were adopted, would be taken down as an expression of anti-Semitism. And you have to deal with that. That is why, if you want to be an idealist, you have to be careful about going into real policy, because in real policy you have to deal with the fact that the world is more complicated and that, when you decide something, it has consequences. In this case it is a consequence, compared to what our allies on the other side of the water, who usually protect us, would say, and how they would look at Denmark, and that is not the most important thing. Now I mentioned it as the first, but it is not the most important, and that is one of the reasons why we in the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141541	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141542	The United States has also spoken critically about the drawing of Mohammed drawings in Denmark at the time, and it is not anti-Semitism that we want to protect both Jewish and Muslim children, boys' children, from being circumcised, and we must maintain that if anyone abroad says so. I have no doubt for a moment that the United States will also accept that Denmark has a view of children's rights, that parts of children's bodies should not be cut off from them simply for religious reasons. So I think that the Left here should come up with a little curage and look at the matter soberly: Does the Left think it is okay that we have legislation in Denmark that allows parents to cut foreskins from their boys' children? And if the Left does not think it is okay, then I do not think it is either the United States or Iran or Syria or anything else that should decide whether we do it in Denmark, that is to say, allow it, or whether we do not allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141645	It's certainly not those countries either, sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentions, which is crucial to the position of the Left, but it just weighs and has a certain weight when our closest allies say: If you adopt it here, well then there will be a discussion in the United States about whether Denmark is a country in which you can be allowed to be Jewish. This impresses me, and it impresses the Confederal Group of the European United Left, along with some health arguments. I think, to be quite honest, that it is slightly different which arguments are the most important, but overall the resolution is the one I have set out here. It's not that I can't see it, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says, but overall we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141727	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119141742	I would like to start by thanking those who have created this citizens' proposal. It has taken time before it was taken up, and I have to say that you have been very patient all this time. For some it is not the easiest topic to take up, and for others it is quite simple. There are many different factors to consider, but I would say as a health rapporteur that I have always had the view that you do not cut in healthy children, especially when it is something you cannot change again. Having said that, all the factors that are affected by this proposal are, of course, examined. Therefore, we in the Folketing have had several consultations, many deputies and many meetings with individuals, professionals and various organisations. There have been meetings with Jews, with Muslims, with circumcised and uncircumcised and with many of those who have also had problems. So we have discussed it many times and for a very long time in our parliamentary group. We also recognise that there is a great challenge to the families who have had it as a long-standing cultural ritual. That is also what has led to the greatest discussions in our group, and that is also why we have a couple of Members who vote differently from the rest of the group. But easily, as the minister said, it has certainly not been. We have been working on this for as long as I can remember, and I have been sitting here for 13 years as a health rapporteur. I have been to a great many meetings around and thus also talked to a great many of the people involved, for example. Those who want to continue to implement it, and I understand their thoughts and their culture, but I also think that sometimes we have to make sure we put a little something to them to say that we are living in a different time now. And when you can see that there are some Jews in different countries who have taken on new things, isn't that where we have to help some of them along with a pouf? We have sat on the Health Committee and seen some of the scary cases that have occurred when cuts have been made on kitchen tables or elsewhere. We have seen registers of problematic circumcisions. The problem has also been that we were not allowed to create proper registers. Now we have some figures which have actually been cleared of some of the medical circumcisions; fortunately we have some diagnostic codes. So to the fact that both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice said just now that the figures did not fit, I would say: they do; they are cleared of the diagnoses of which a medical circumcision is being made. At the same time, I would just like to make a mistake, as the Minister of Justice mentioned, and as others also mentioned, namely that we cannot accept the proposal because it also allows women to be circumcised. There are, in fact, three possibilities in the proposal for how to change it, so that you can get an age of circumcision, without the age of girls, and in relation to the fact that you cannot circumcise girls after they have been 18 years of age. So I think that is something we should work on when we get into committee. Now it is in the area of justice. I think I was involved in sending it there myself, i.e. I followed it along, and I am also following the proposal further, because I think we need to be clear about what the ministers are saying, because I think it is outside what we can look at figures and proposals. I think you're trying to push a whole lot forward in front of you that doesn't fit. You have to be honest, and we have heard that the Minister of Justice was very honest, so you wouldn't do it because of the Jews you're afraid they're moving out. I am surprised, as a health rapporteur, that we should actually be witnessing the many who get infections and the growth of urethra, while there are some who, when they get older, lack the feeling, and they cannot actually get it back. But we will say in those words that we support the proposal and we look forward to having it dealt with with with respect and also to ensuring that we get answers to the questions that we put in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142233	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left. It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142249	Thank you. And like my colleague Mrs Liselott Blixt, I also followed over from the Health Committee. Thank you for the floor. This citizen's proposal has had a long way to go to the Assembly Hall. It has been delayed by a parliamentary election, by a slightly uneven path to a new guidance from the Board for Patient Safety, and now it has moved from the Health Committee to the Legal Affairs Committee. Whatever one might think of the proposal, the authors of the motion are to be congratulated on the fact that, after all, they succeeded in coming here. This is a proposal that separates the waters and sometimes creates violent debate. Both myself and several others have experienced this if they have interfered in the discussions. This is true of the people, and it is true of Christiansborg, and it is true of my own party, both in the hinterland and in the parliamentary group, and I understand that, because the debate on the genital mutilation of boys hits a number of sensitive areas. It's about faith and culture. That is why it is clear that a debate which, for some of our fellow believers, is a central issue will give rise to strong feelings. It is a question of health policy, because this is a surgical operation involving the risks, large or small, frequent or rare. But this is not just a health policy issue. It is also about child rearing and family life, which is why it is obvious that a debate that is seen by some as a criticism of their way of treating their children will arouse strong feelings. It's self-evident. And then it is about justice policy, about integration policy, about foreign policy, about security policy. In other words, the debate on boys' circumcision is very quickly complicated and branched because where is the limit in relation to family self-determination? What about the child's best interests? How is this perceived abroad? Does it affect the practice of religion? Is it safe for health? After all, it is said that when two radicals are discussing, there are at least three different positions present. I will take that on my cloak today, because we have discussed the issue very many times in the Radical Left, and we cover, I believe, all the views. We do not agree on how to deal with this issue. In the radical parliamentary group, most members are against male circumcision, but a majority do not believe that the proposal for an age limit is the right solution. Personally, I am in favour of an age limit for male circumcision, because when I do the countboard, I always end up emphasising the child's bodily autonomy. In principle, I do not think there should be any irreversible intervention without medical reasons, but I recognise that the issue is complicated and I fully respect the fact that several of my colleagues in the parliamentary group come to a different conclusion from me, and we can include that in the Radical Left. So what are we gonna do? There I would refer to the Basic Law of the Danish Empire, which states in section 56: "The members of the people are bound by their beliefs and not by any regulation of their voters. And in those words, thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142622	I can tell you that there are plenty of things I'm against. I'm against astrology. I think it's something strange to tell people that their lives depend on the position of the stars at their birth and the like. Of course, I would never forbid it, because adults have to find out for themselves. It is possible to say that in such a case, that is to say that you are opposed to it, but adults have to find out for themselves. This is about something else. It's about adults doing something to children. There you cannot stand on the platform and say: the majority of our group is opposed to it being done, but adults have to find out for themselves. 'Cause it's about them doing something to kids. Thus it is legitimate here in the Folketing to have a position on it and to adopt legislation on it, because we do not recognise that parents have full control over the lives of their children. We recognise that children have their own life at their disposal and that they grow up to have full power. Will the radical rapporteur deal with this? We cannot just say that we are against, but we have no opinion as to whether it should be prohibited or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142730	Thank you. I think the rapporteur misunderstood what I said. My position is clear. I support the citizens' proposal. I support an age limit for boys circumcision. Some of my colleagues share the same view, others do not think that they should vote in favour. What the individual ends up voting will have to do in this Chamber when that day comes. However, I personally fully agree with what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142754	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142755	The radical group has ended up saying, at least by a majority, that they will not vote in favour of a ban on male circumcision. What is the real reason for this? We have not heard any justification for this. There are plenty of things that parents do to their children that we have banned because we believe that parents cannot afford to do so. Why does the radical parliamentary group think that this is something parents can afford to do to their children, and therefore it should not be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142826	I said: a majority of the group is against male circumcision, but also against an age limit. What the individual has for reasons of this, ask the individual. I can say what my position is and what I will vote on the day we press the button. What the individual chooses to vote and what the individual thinks about it, ask the individual. But I would like to say, as I started by saying, that today we have heard a number of arguments from the rapporteur of the Left, from the Minister and from the Social Democrat rapporteur, as to why they cannot vote in favour of this proposal. These are the same views that are represented in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142859	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And we have to remember that there is no direct indictment in the Parliamentary Chamber. It can be difficult to get used to, but that is the way it is. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119142914	Yes, thank you for the floor. Today is actually the International Day of Men. It is indeed the men's counterpart to the women's day of struggle, and I think it could have been so beautiful if it were today that the Folketing then agreed that one would have an age limit for boys circumcision and could have ensured that boys would not be subjected to such intervention in the future. I don't think it's gonna be like that, I can figure it out from today's debate. But I would say that in SF we think that ritual circumcision of boys is an intervention that cannot be changed; it is irreversible. It is painful, and it is actually also associated with risk. So circumcision without medical arguments on a person who is unable to give his own consent seems to us to be at odds with basic medical and ethical principles. It is actually an operation that will affect the child for the rest of its life, and it can never be done over. That's why the primary argument for SF to introduce this age limit is the child's right to his own body. Circumcision is an intervention that we would not accept in other contexts if there were no clear medical justification for it. Therefore, we believe that ritual circumcision should not take place until you are adult enough to decide for yourself what to do with your body. But where is the limit for what parents can make decisions on behalf of their children? Yes, we have had that debate on several occasions here in the Folketing, not least in connection with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and when children's rights conflict with parents' beliefs or culture. We have also made tough decisions in the past to regulate what we as parents can decide or cannot decide on behalf of children. done in relation to girl circumcision. In the SF we recognize the right of parents to raise children in a certain faith, and we also recognise that faith is a very strong and fundamental force in the lives of many people. But that is not what the debate here is about for us in the SF; it is about the right of children to decide for themselves about interference of an irreversible nature. Children and young people must, of course, have the opportunity to decide for themselves what they believe in and how they want to live their lives. This is precisely why it is important that a certain belief or, for that matter, a certain cultural background does not set itself irreversible traces in terms of changes on their bodies. We have therefore also repeatedly said that the SF does not want a ban on male circumcision; we want a minimum age so that the individual boy has the opportunity to take a stand on his own. Because when we do not want a ban such as that which applies to girl circumcision, but a minimum age, it is to ensure that one still has the possibility of being circumcised as part of the membership of a religion with certain rituals when one is ready for it. That is why we could have supported B 6 to introduce an age limit of 18 years for genital mutilation, but we have thought that B 7, which is, in fact, the resolution we are debating here today, requires clarification, and I understand that Enhedslisten is on the way with an amendment, and that will probably enable us to vote in favour of this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that I do not like the fact that Jewish persecution fills so much in this debate. For us, it is simply not about not recognizing Jewish persecutions that we recognize all the sufferings that the Jewish people have been through. And there have been no parties or parties for that matter there, like the SF, have been behind the Jews in Denmark in relation to the attacks they have experienced. We have put up with protection and more money for it even. We are constantly talking about how we can do more to prevent the Jews from feeling threatened here in Denmark, and we will continue to do so. But I think that this debate is about something quite different, namely the right of the child to his own body.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143324	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143331	Thank you. As I said earlier, I do not think this is an easy debate or an easy one. I think that's the word the Minister of Justice used, that is, that there are some easy solutions here. I would like to start by saying that in itself it is commendable that more than 50,000 citizens have engaged in this debate on child genital mutilation. That is why we are dealing today with this citizens' proposal which, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, has been a little long in coming. The proposal provides for a gender-neutral age limit for the genital mutilation of healthy children and for the age limit to be 18 years. The position of the Enhedslisten on boy circumcision is clear: we have a decision from our 2008 annual meeting which clearly states that religious and culturally related surgical interventions are a choice that the individual must make himself. The cutting off of healthy functional tissue is an intervention that cannot be decided by the parents on behalf of their unborn children. On the other hand, we do not believe in the Enhedslisten that the rules on female genital mutilation should be relaxed, which would be a consequence of this citizens' proposal as it is now formulated. That is why we will be able to table an amendment which clarifies or amends the proposal, so that it is only a question of an age limit for the genital mutilation of male children, in order to ensure that the citizens' proposal will still live up to the intentions that we are at least reading out of the debate, but at the same time ensure that we do not relax the rules on female circumcision. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is important that the proposal should be followed by an information campaign aimed at those parents who are in those environments where boy circumcision is either religious or culturally widespread. It is a very good thing if we can have a dialogue with the respective religions about an age limit, but I think that what really needs to be done if we want a change of attitude on the genital mutilation of boys is that we also talk to the parents who are actually dealing with these questions about their children. There is no doubt that this debate on boys' circumcision is sensitive, and it is because two fundamental rights are colliding. On the one hand, there is the child's right to decide for himself about his own body and the need not to expose a child who cannot himself be involved in that decision to unnecessary pain or to an unnecessary risk of complications, and complications are always at risk of surgery. On the other hand, we have the right to practice our faith, that is, freedom of religion. It's relevant in this context, because ritual circumcision is part of both Judaism and Islam. But when we in the Enhedslisten weigh these two considerations against each other, it is the consideration of the child's right to decide over his own body that weighs the heaviest. That is why we can support this citizens' proposal with the amendment that we ourselves will be bringing into the debate in committee. Finally, I would like to say that we have a concern which I think we need to take into account when discussing this citizens' proposal in the citizens' proposal, they themselves also mention a number of different solutions, and that is the level of penalties. It must not be the case that parents, if there is going to be a circumcision against which there is a ban, do not dare to go to the doctor if there are major complications about it. That is why I think it is important that we have a debate afterwards on, if we get so far, that we make an age limit that we then ensure that the level of punishment that might follow is, of course, proportional to the age limit that we are setting. So it was just one last thing I wanted to flag in this debate. However, the Enhedslisten therefore gives the child's right to his own body the highest priority, and we can therefore support the citizen's proposal and, as I said, come with an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143755	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143759	Thank you very much. It is because there is this error, including that of the Minister of Justice, that it is then legalised for girls and women, and there I would like to say that there is a question and answer, S 896, from 2018, where it is precisely asked, and it is written that there are three different ways of doing so, and it will not be the repeal of the law that lies for women. I just think it is important to inform about it, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned it, which is why I would like to encourage it in the ground. But these are some of the things we can take up in committee, because an amendment should not be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143841	I find that interesting. I was not aware of that answer and it then says something about my own preparation. But then I have at least been shown that what matters to us here in the Enhedslisten is that we are not relaxing the rules on female circumcision, but that we are setting an age limit for male circumcision, and that is our starting point when we have discussed this resolution. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for his clarification. Then we will have to take this citizen's proposal forward in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143909	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119143923	Thanks to the citizens for the citizens' proposal. We in the Conservative Parliamentary Group have chosen to release our members here. There are group members who are strong for an age limit and there are some who strongly oppose: there are 8 against an age limit and 4 for an age limit. I will try in my speech to be loyal to both views. Personally, I am in favour of an age limit as I do not think that healthy children should be cut. My son Hannibal was not circumcised, and he is very happy about that today. I think it is an unnecessary intervention, but that is my view of it. But it is not that simple, because there are other considerations that need to be taken into account. We all want to take account of the Jewish minority in Denmark. Their ritual has not been kept alive on the basis of medical considerations, it is a cultural and religious matter, and it is a covenant that Abraham made with God, namely that male children should be circumcised on the eighth day, and therefore we cannot deal with the matter today as if we are doctors who only have to decide on a disease. Besides, this is not the first time we have this debate. Both sides, i.e. those in favour and those against, have good arguments: the right of the child to decide over his own body versus the right of the parents to raise their children in a faith and in a culture; that medically it is an unnecessary intervention versus the cultural and religious causes; that one can wait until the child decides, versus the knowledge that we have that the intervention becomes more complicated when one is older; that some may want to have a fundamental attitude versus the real world, where we fear that a ban pushes circumcisions in, among other things. Muslim environments back in the shadows and in unholy conditions, for we have seen examples that they have been there before. One cannot talk about the child's best interests without wondering what the real effect of a ban is. Although the argument that Denmark is going alone has been reversed both ways, some claim that it is good to take the lead, I personally think so, while at other times it is foolish. In this case, it depends on what you already think about circumcision. The Health and Elderly Committee in 2018 asked the Ethics Council for an opinion on ritual genital mutilation of boys. 15 members could not support a ban, 2 believed that one could support a ban or an age limit of 15 years, the age of health, or another age limit, where one considers that the child is old enough to decide for himself. I am very pleased with the thorough treatment which the parties of the Danish Parliament have given this matter over time. I think it shows respect for our Jewish minorities, who have contributed positively and have been exemplary in terms of integration and assimilation in Denmark. In this context, I would also like to mention that this year's Patient Safety Agency published a note in the area where it appeared that it is estimated that adequate or safe painkillers can be given when circumcising boys in addition to general anaesthesia. That should be part of the debate. It helps to hold on to the nuances and prevent some from believing that Jews are bad parents because they let their children circumcise. The Danish Jews have been a well-functioning part of Denmark for 400 years, and I hope that this will be borne in mind in the debate. Of course, we listen to our own Jewish citizens when a proposal is put forward that will hit them hard. We have been in dialogue with them and, of course, their arguments make an impression. But I am not in favour of starting to use the rhetoric of the 1930s; we should not do so, just as we should not say that it means one thing, the other, and the third, because we should not allow other countries or organisations to have a right of veto over what we adopt in Denmark. One can make one's position up in several ways, but it would not be worthy of a debate without nuances. This matter requires us to weigh up all considerations and, as I said, we have really turned all stones in the group, and we have come to the conclusion that because there are group members who have great feelings for an age limit and because there are group members who have great feelings against it, we have chosen to leave our group members free. It's not something you do often, but we do that in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119144510	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119144521	Thank you. The proposal to ban ritual genital mutilation of male children without medical justification follows a development in which we in society have become increasingly aware that children should be protected from abuse. A good bourgeois basic attitude is that it is the children of the parents and not the state. It is the responsibility and duty of parents to raise their children. Parents have the right to influence their children and raise them according to the values that parents consider important, but there are limits. Society must and should set limits. Limits should not be set to meet the needs of the state. The borders must be set for the sake of children. The consideration of the individual child requires that we protect the child. It's our job as legislators to set this limit. It is not so difficult to legislate against neglect, exploitation and violence in the family; there is a broad consensus on this in society. Circumcision of boys, however, is neither neglect nor exploitation nor violence. It is tradition, it is culture, and for some it is also religion. It is harder for a citizen-thinking person to intervene in parental law in this area. Personally, I and in New Citizens, we have come to the conclusion that we should do so. The health arguments for banning the genital mutilation of healthy boys are strong, and the fundamental considerations that parental law stops before you can cut the foreskin of the boys lead in the same direction. I am aware that most Jews in Denmark have a different attitude, that for them the circumcision of healthy male children is within parental law. So there is no consensus among the Danes on where the border should be, and I regret that; I do. But the attitude of my and New Citizens here goes against the perception of Jews. The decision has not been easy, and it probably has not been too many of us. But it has been taken after careful consideration and, of course, I am in favour of it. I should also like to mention that we in New Citizens consider this not only a health issue but also an ethical issue. And that means that our elected representatives are free to promote their own position and vote on their own merits. In these words, we in the New Citizens' Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119144807	There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119144827	Thank you. And thank you for the citizens' proposal to those who sent it in and those who voted it through so that we could have this debate in the Folketing. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is an extremely important issue. It is about what rights we as people have here in life, and it is about children also having rights that are not dependent on, whether their parents will recognise those rights, but that there are, in fact, institutions and standards in society that limit what parents must do to their children. There is no doubt whatsoever that a child needs his parents to be guided, to be brought up and also to be a figure of authority in life, and therefore a child first gains full adult freedom as the child grows up. While the child is still underage and small, parents can decide that the child should be baptized, that the child should be in certain schools, that the child should not watch TV after 8 a.m. 20 and all sorts of other things you can't control when you're dealing with an adult. Parents are the guardians of the children. They must take care of them, and they must lead them into adult life in the best possible way from their own point of view. But in this society, in the Western world, where we belong, we also attach value to children, which is an independent value that children have. They're not family property. The family can't do what they want with the kids. We are responding to social pressure against children. We take action against cultures that think they should decide more about children than we allow in a society such as the Danish one, where we regard children as individuals with their own rights. We need some legislation here because we still have a permit that if you come from a particular religion, you can take your boy children from birth, or when they are a little bigger, and cut off their foreskins. We should not be allowed to do that in Denmark. There should be a law forbidding it. That is what we are trying to rectify with this citizens' proposal, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports this citizens' proposal. Some would like to present it in such a way that it is just a small, insignificant cut in a body, and therefore I am forced to stand here on the platform and talk about the male sex organ. It's not something I want to talk about, I'd rather talk about taxes and fiscal policy and highways, but because some say this is harmless and insignificant, I'm now forced to talk about boys' genitals. All male mammals are born to me with a foreskin on their sexual organs. It is actually because it has a function; it protects a sensitivity that is inside the foreskin. If you cut off the foreskin, you get, popularly said, hard skin on your penis. The foreskin protects so that it does not happen, so one has a sensitivity; that is what its function is. It is both a part of reproduction, but it is also part of the sexual pleasure that we humans experience. And that's why you lose something if you lose your foreskin. Therefore it is not just a small cut, and therefore it does not make sense when the Danish Health Authority has at some point been asked whether one can cut off the foreskin without causing complications, and the Danish Health Authority then answers: Yes, you can actually do that. You might as well have asked the Danish Health Authority whether you can cut a little finger off a small child without causing complications, and the Danish Health Authority would answer: Yes, you can actually do that. But it's too bad not to have your little finger. It's too bad not to have your little finger! It is also a pity to have to grow up without a foreskin when it has a function. And that is why it is not just about the nature of the operation itself and whether it can be carried out properly. It's about cutting a functionality of the child's body. And that is why it is necessary to have a ban on this. Yes, it is about freedom of religion, but it is very much about the fact that boys have freedom of religion and that they cannot be subject to irreversible things on their bodies by their parents. We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145342	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145356	Then I would like to inform you that paragraph 22 (1) of the agenda of the first reading of L 57 on digital mail for both parents on the joint child is deleted from the agenda at the request of the Minister for Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145438	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145448	Thank you, President. This bill is one of several initiatives in our fight against political Islam in Denmark. The bill is a step in the right direction when it comes to stopping individuals, organisations and authorities who want to fund Islamist enterprises in Denmark; it could be mosques who work for values that do not belong in Denmark. The bill will allow the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration to place domestic and foreign individuals, organisations and authorities respectively on a public ban list. The prerequisite for a given person, organisation or authority who works against Danish society and our fundamental freedoms to be on the list is a recommendation from the Foreigners' Board. We think it makes sense that recipients of donations will be subject to criminal liability if they receive money from someone on the ban list and the donation is of a size above the de minimis threshold. The baker typically stays in countries other than Denmark and therefore outside Danish jurisdiction. Political Islam is not only a problem in Denmark, several European countries face many of the same problems that we face at home. Some of the countries even have far greater problems than we have in Denmark. That is why we must do everything we can to combat Islamist forces, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145605	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145612	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. In 2016, a system of national lists of named foreign religious ministers was introduced, which can be excluded from entry to Denmark, on the grounds that they must be considered a threat to public order in the country. This applies, among other things, to: Hate preachers. Following that arrangement, the former VLAK government agreed with the Danish People's Party that foreign donations to religious communities, associations, etc., if the purpose of the donation is to counter and undermine our democracy and fundamental freedoms, must also be combated, of course, within the framework of the Constitution and our international commitments externally. In the Left, we are pleased that the present government also agrees with the main thrust of that agreement. An arrangement is to be established whereby the Minister, on the recommendation of the Foreign Affairs Council, may decide on the inclusion of natural and legal persons carrying out such counter-processing on a list of prohibitions. We want the issue of whether or not to be included in the list of prohibitions to be decided on the basis of as much information as possible. That is why we would also like to see the consultation of the parties involved in the proposal. However, this does not change the fact that the Left looks very seriously at individuals and groups trying to combat our democracy and fundamental freedoms. It is vital that our society does not help to justify these organisations and people by receiving financial support from them. Open opponents of our free democratic country must have neither sympathy nor any influence in Denmark. In Denmark we are proud of our democracy. We have had this since our first constitution was adopted in 1849. That was the end of the absolute monarchy, and the citizens heard their voice. It must be said, however, that our first constitution was far from perfect. It was by no means everyone who had the opportunity to vote or to stand and be elected. But it was the beginning of democracy, as we know it today. And today we do not look back, and we do not miss the restricted freedoms of the Middle Ages, at least we do not do so in the Left. Our freedom is something very special, and we must safeguard it. Looking at the world, we are being stressed that we should never take these freedoms for granted, because unfortunately they do not exist everywhere. That is why I am pleased that the bill also aims to counteract foreign government authorities and government-controlled organisations and companies that, through donations, want to undermine the freedom that Denmark and the Danes have built up. I don't want anyone to take that away from us. With those comments, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145906	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119145914	L 81 will prevent Islamic organisations or states from supporting Islamist associations in Denmark, thereby helping to prevent terrorism in Denmark. At least that's what we wanted the law to do. We have often advocated that donations to extreme mosques and associations in Denmark should be prevented, so it is really good that there should now be a legislative proposal, and that is entirely in line with the agreement we reached with the Blue Government before the last elections. In the Danish People's Party we want to avoid extreme Muslim associations and mosques being funded from abroad. It could be Islamic associations in Denmark that receive money from Iran, Saudi Arabia or organisations such as the Muslim Brotherhood. But we certainly do not want to hit free churches and foreign Christian churches that, for example, do not want to hit free churches. do not want to recommend abortion or homosexual marriages. If the law is going to hit that way, it will be a nuisance to some people who should not be bothered. That is why we are a little concerned about whether the draft law is too vague. The very purpose has been expressed very broadly, namely that you should not receive money from the European Parliament and I quote "people who are working against or undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights'. The best thing would be, of course, if we were to say plainly in advance that what we do not want donations from are countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia or extreme Islamist organisations, and that they must not be donations to extreme Islamist organisations and mosques in Denmark. This bill clearly shows what the weakness of our open democratic society is, namely that we will give freedom to all and that we are afraid to make a difference. But the problem today is that we cannot expect everyone to support the rules of the game, that is. freedom of mind and democracy. There are some who use freedom of spirit and democracy to undermine and destroy freedom of spirit and democracy. At the same time, our tradition of freedom makes it almost impossible to direct the law to those whom we want to stop because we do not want to make any difference. This is a problem that must be resolved before we seriously undermine ourselves. I am sure that there are many subtle and difficult legal problems in a wording that is directed directly at what we care about: Islamic associations in Denmark, which receive money from Iran and Saudi Arabia or organisations such as the Muslim Brotherhood, without the law becoming a major nuisance to a number of peaceful and law-abiding people. However, I would urge that the further work on the bill should try to guard against them and ensure that the fences are free churches and other Christian churches so that they do not run the risk of being hit. The Danish People's Party supports the purpose of the bill, but we need to be sure of the precision of the bill so that it does not hit these Christian churches I am talking about before we can promise to vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150229	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150232	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Krarup for an exciting speech, I would like to say. Because it is well embedded in democracy and in the rights that we have built up in Denmark that we do not make any distinction, that is to say that we do not make any difference; that it is precisely not said that the people over here with whom we very much disagree should not donate, while the people over there, with whom we also very much disagree, should be allowed to donate. I am thinking, for example. on very strong Christians who are opposed to abortion. I believe that it is a fundamental right of women to their own bodies, and I do not think that we should accept donations from people who want to promote the agenda that women should no longer be in charge of their own bodies. That is why I think it is quite important not to make any distinction. So does Mrs Marie Krarup not agree that our democracy itself is based precisely on the premise that we are not making a difference in that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150334	I totally disagree. Our democracy is precisely based on the fact that we are making a difference. For example: It is not the whole world's population that has the right to vote in Denmark. It is a very, very important difference that some have the bourgeoisie and others do not. The Enhedslisten's question is exactly what worries us about this bill: that you have done so universally and so little precisely that you risk exactly hitting the Catholic Church or the Russian Orthodox Church. will not support homosexual marriages or abortions. So, no, I don't agree that you always have to treat everyone the same. You actually have to make a difference. And democracy can only be done if you make the difference and, for example, if you make the difference. does not give everyone the right to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150436	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150437	Well, it is also rare that Mrs Marie Krarup and I agree with this Parliamentary Chamber, so that does not surprise me very much. I am just wondering why there are some people who are thought to be very oppressive to women who do not want to receive donations from, while there are others who are just as oppressive to women, but who would like to receive donations from. Honestly, Mrs Krarup, I think it is a good double standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150503	But it is because the rapporteur has not agreed that when we talk about the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church or other free church communities in Denmark or foreign ecclesiastical communities, they are not as oppressive as the Islamics. And that's not what this is about. What this is about is that we have seen terror. We have seen Islamic terror and we do not want organisations that could help prepare for terrorism to receive donations from extreme countries and organisations. This is not the same thing we see from the Catholic Church or the Russian Orthodox Church. That's an absurd comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150544	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150553	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we recognise that there are certain donations that are problematic, especially if there is an undemocratic return on that donation. But these are complex issues, and they cannot be solved by fingertips, which is why there are also some problems in this draft law. We find it, for example. It is difficult for the Minister to have the authority to decide who should be on such a list of prohibitions. This should not be a political decision. However, it is reassuring that it is according to the recommendation of the board of directors. We also find it problematic that general principles of administrative law should be disregarded. In such cases, a Party's hearing should take place. It is also problematic that it is not quite clear on what basis it is on the list and on the list. These are questions which we have in the Radical Left and which we will pursue in the committee's work. We take a position on the overall legislative proposal in connection with the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150713	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150720	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for this bill, which is intended to make it illegal to receive donations from foreign people, organisations and associations that are opposed to democratic values here in Denmark. It is important for the SF that we can ban donations aimed at undermining our democracy and the rule of the people. We know that there are extremist environments in this country, among others. young people are brainwashed and radicalised. Of course, these environments should not be allowed to flourish on the basis of foreign donations from anti-democratic people and organisations. To take an example, Saudi Arabia has donated millions of Danish kroner to a mosque on Nørrebro, which has previously been the base of some of the most extreme Islamists here at home. The Saudi regime, through its donations, has had a direct influence on the choice of the mosque's board and imam. In my view, that is not okay, since the Saudi authorities, among other things, are. is known for their terrible treatment of homosexuals and general violations of human rights. We therefore need to ensure that foreign donors do not undermine our democratic values, as we have seen in the mosque at Nørrebro. Therefore, we are pleased that the government is focusing on it, and SF would like to support the bill. At the same time, however, it is important for the law to be properly combined and in no way weakens or destroys the ability of civil society to provide donations. It is therefore essential that the legislative proposal only affects those who want to harm our democracy and the rule of the people. It is also important that the tools to be used to stop these donations are within Denmark's international obligations. With these comments, I would like to inform you that the SF supports the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150927	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119150933	It's because I actually have a lot of sympathy for this bill. There is something obvious in what Mrs Halime Oguz says, but as I understand it, without having read me deeply into it, it is a very wide-ranging power given to a minister. After all, we have just seen what can happen when very extensive powers are given to ministries: then they become speed-blind, and then we suddenly have a democratic problem, and then we have to do one study after another. Isn't that something that worries Mrs. Halime Oguz?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151010	No, because a minister is also subject to certain rules, and I also say explicitly in my speech that this bill must be in line with Denmark's international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151030	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151031	Yeah, yeah, yeah, we do, and we write it all down on paper, and it's fine and something like that. I just have the basic point of view that every time you give a minister some powers, that minister must use those powers, otherwise he will not show due diligence, and then the whole bow will be stretched out, and suddenly you run red. That is what we are in the middle of right now, and that is why I ask whether there is any concern that such a speed blindness can arise in a government and in a minister when such extensive powers are given.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151112	I understand the concern, and it is also real enough, but I am also confident that we have a Parliament which will be able to keep the Minister in his ears, if I may say so, if he is going to run a red light.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151131	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur, and then we go on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151139	Thank you. I think this is a very interesting legislative proposal that we are discussing here today. I think, in fact, that we can agree quickly on that, I hope that it is deeply problematic that foreign states, organisations or people will undermine or oppose our democracy. This was also the reason why, together with the Radical Left and the Alternative back in the winter of 2018, we proposed examining the possibility of a ban on transfers of funds from countries with authoritarian regimes that suppress human rights. Securing democracy and human rights is an agenda that is very close to our hearts in the Enhedslisten, and I hope that is not a secret either. But with the proposal that we are discussing today, I have to admit that I have some doubts as to what the government wants. Because, as a number of the hearings point out, it is unclear when the government believes that democracy and fundamental freedoms are being undermined and when you end up on the Ministry's list. I can read that counter-working or undermining should be understood in a broad sense and that it will include activities that have the object or contribute to harm, hinder or weaken, and eventually break down the foundations of our democracy. For me, frankly, it is rather unclear what it means, and that is why I agree with the consultation responses that want a clearer definition of what it means to undermine democracy. In the end, it is up to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to decide whether a donation undermines democracy or fundamental freedoms. So this is not an objective decision but a political judgement. It may be I who read the bill as the Devil reads the Bible, but I think the Minister can answer it either in committee or in this Chamber today. I also see that this is not just the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, because we also need to get the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in to assess whether this is a matter which has significant foreign policy implications. And that's where the chain jumps off for me and for us in the Enhedslisten, because what are we gonna do with a list like this? secure democracy and freedoms or maybe hang religious minorities on a politicized list? Again it may be I who reads the bill as the Devil reads the Bible, but that is why it makes sense that we have the debate today. I am concerned about what these so-called foreign policy implications can be. Does this mean that if China makes a donation, it also undermines democracy in some way? It could be in connection with the Tibet case. Another example is donations from Turkey, as if someone had a lax relationship with human rights. It's just to mention some of the concerns we have in the Enhedslisten. Would they get through or what? That is why we need a clear definition. In my optics, one of the greatest threats to our democracy is a lack of legal certainty, and for that reason I am also aware that several of the hearings indicate that the principle of consultation of the parties is being put out of effect. That is what the Lawyers' Council points out, which also says that inclusion in the list of prohibitions may be the basis for criminal proceedings, and that is why it must, of course, be on an enlightened basis. Don't get me wrong, because I think it is really important that we guarantee democracy and freedoms, but I am worried about this bill, because I think it looks like a politicised ban list, and that is why I think it is important that we become more precise. But I also think it is important that we discuss what this is really about, because I would say that extreme religions and extreme ideologists are equally dangerous wherever they come from. I am, in fact, as afraid of Islamists who oppress democracy as I am of Turkey, who oppress democracy, as I am afraid of China, which oppresses democracy, as I am afraid of opponents of abortion and the Catholic Church in Poland, which oppresses democracy. It is important to me that we defend our democracy in Denmark against all these threats, and we want this bill to ensure that, just as we would like the administrative court to be respected, just as in all other cases. I really think it is an exciting bill, and I look forward sincerely to the committee reading, because I can sense that at least Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti have a little disagreement about how to do it best. So we look forward to that in the Enhedslisten and we will take a final position when the committee procedure is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151645	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151705	Thank you, President. I would like to say straight away what is probably not a big surprise, namely that the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal here. The work started back while we were in government ourselves. I would also like to put my hand on the heart and say that this is a work that should have started very, very many years ago, because, far along the way, it is a work which seeks to counter developments which are very, very unfortunate for our society and which would have been easier to solve if we had solved it a number of years ago. We all know the story of the Imam Ali Mosque. I know that the Minister himself has been in touch with the story of Roya from our own Conservative People's Party, who experienced a phone call from the Iranian Embassy and was told that now that she had been divorced from her husband here in Denmark yes, she also had to get past the Imam Ali Mosque to get her divorce approved religiously there, otherwise it would not have been recognized by the state of Iran, and that is quite insane since the state of Iran finances the Imam Ali Mosque. There is, after all, a string of examples of mosques around Denmark which are financed from outside, either by countries or by anti-democratic organisations, and that is totally unacceptable. That is why I wish that the time of 10, 20, 30 years could be conjured back and that we had introduced this before they were mosques actually rooted in Denmark. Now we're gonna put it in place. It is better late than never, but unfortunately the reality is that whoever pays the orchestra also pays the music. So to think that any of these undemocratic, above all Muslim, organizations and mosques can exist without the political ideology of any of these countries or organizations going along will probably be very naive. That is why we are very pleased with the proposal. At the same time, of course, it is also very important for us to safeguard our foreign churches and our other religious communities, which should not be punished or burdened because of the problems of extremist Muslim mosques and communities. So let me just say one more thing: Conservatives wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151925	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119151932	Today we are discussing a proposal that is about Islam, or rather the political part of Islam, and the two things cannot be separated. New citizens' attitude to Islam is clear: Islam must have no influence in our society. That is why we tabled a proposal in the New Citizens' Party in the spring that the recognition of the Islamic religions in Denmark should be abolished. Today, the state recognises the Islamic religions and thus the spread of Islam, including political Islam, in Denmark. This means giving special privileges, tax advantages, the right to invite imams on special terms and, above all, the right to marry and bring women into the Islamic marriage, nikah, which also has an Islamic divorce that follows, and which we have talked about in other contexts, in relation to what it has to do with complications. So that is what the state recognizes today. This bill is then about banning donations from certain legal and natural persons, such as: may be foreign government authorities and government-led organisations and companies that oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. It is, of course, a proposal that you can't be against if it's about Islam when you're New Citizen. However, it can be found a little bit remarkable that with this proposal we are trying to weaken the economy of some Islamic religions, which we recognise with the Danish state's blue stamp and thus give special privileges, also financially. So that we say: We want these Islamic religions in Denmark, we recognise their right to preach political Islam in Denmark. Now we try to weaken them a little by not being able to get money from outside. But money from the Danish state will be given, and special rights to invite their imams, who preach hatred against Danish Jews, and whatever else they do, yes, they may also be allowed to do so. And in relation to the right to marry husbands, with the complications it has for Muslim women: fine with us, we approve! I would like to remind you again today that New Citizens were the only party to believe that recognition of the Islamic religions should be removed. So we are in a situation where there is a large majority of people who think that this economy must be weakened, but the Islamic religions are therefore those who are in Denmark, those who are already spreading political Islam to Muslims in Denmark, we recognise them; we support them. It seems a little bit bizarre, a little hypocritical. I have to say this because, of course, we support the proposal here. We fear that it is a patchy solution that these very creative people are finding their way out of. We can also fear, as has already been said, that this will affect all sorts of others that were not intended in the proposal. Because it doesn't say that this is about political Islam. When I started my rapporteur's speech by saying that it was about Islam and about political Islam, it was, of course, my interpretation of the draft law, and that is what comes out in the rapporteur's speeches that we are hearing today. However, if we had now been clear about this and had it now been said that we do not want political Islam in Denmark and that we are using the democratic means we can to prevent Islam and political Islam from spreading, that would have been fair. That is not what you do, and now you risk hitting the wrong people, and you risk doing something that is a patchy solution, because at the same time you insist on supporting the Islamic religions with the rights they have in Denmark. So with the comments: we support the proposal. We fear that it will be a patchy solution, but we hope, of course, that it can be a small step on the road, after all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152347	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152351	Thank you. I would actually just like to say that I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund made a good speech and points to some relevant challenges in this. For it is clear that this bill will not solve all the problems of political Islam in Denmark, and that is certainly not something we want to give the impression of either on the part of the Social Democrats. It takes more than that. We're not done. In the past, we have adopted rules against hate preachers, their ability to enter. We're working on legislative proposals to translate sermons so that we can keep track of what's being said in these mosques, and there can be other initiatives. So it's really just to acknowledge the points and say that we're not done.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152437	I'm glad. I think that one of the things you could do if you want to continue along this path if you are not willing to remove the recognition of the Islamic religions on the basis that is now in place is to ensure that the conditions we have for recognising religions in general were tightened up in the direction of some of what is here. So the Islamic religions, which maintain women in marriage against their will, the Islamic religions which preach hatred against Jews, and the political part of Islam, which is totalitarian and has consequences which, if you say so on the street, would result in a violation of the penal code and thus either a fine or a trip to prison, also entered into the legislation on the recognition of religions. And I understand that this is another minister and another resort. But it could be hoped to be the next step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152530	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152534	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for a speech that I completely disagree with, but I do not think that is a secret, that is, the rapporteur and I disagree. However, one of the things on which Mrs Pernille Vermund and I sometimes agree is that we must, as it were, ensure transparency and that we must guarantee as many democratic rights as possible. Then we do it a little differently; I am well aware of that. I am surprised, however, that in New Citizens there is no concern that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be involved. We have seen before that Denmark takes special account of both Turkey and China, and I actually find it rather frightening that it is not taken into account very literally in this bill. It may be that it was either because Mrs Pernille Vermund is more afraid of one than of the other, or because perhaps the rapporteur forgot, or whatever, but at least I am very interested in whether new citizens are not also concerned about the so-called foreign policy assessment, which must also lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152639	Yeah, and I think that's what I was trying to say when I said there's a risk of this hitting the wrong people. That is to say, when you give such extensive powers, it will be harder to tackle. We also saw it with the hate preachers here, that is, that preachers can be put on, which was not what they intended when they made the legislation, but because they give some powers and make some basic criteria for what needs to be done and what needs to be achieved, they give some powers to a minister or a ministry, and then it becomes harder to tackle. It is probably one of the biggest challenges when we speak Islam, and when we talk about foreign policy at all, that we risk when we do not solve these problems from scratch, such a bite for bite to do violence on our freedoms, on our democracy, and also give power to someone who cannot control power, and hit someone who was not intended to be hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152747	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152748	Well, my concern isn't really about whether this hits someone it wasn't meant to hit. I think, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is not about Islam, but about protecting our democracy from all forms of religious extremism. And what is my main concern, and that is actually what I am asking Mrs Pernille Vermund, is, in fact, whether we are not making a loophole with this bill for states such as China and Turkey, to which we sometimes take some rather strange special consideration from so-called foreign policy interests. They do not put democracy first, as we do in Denmark. So it's not about hitting the wrong people, it's about making loopholes for those who shouldn't have had them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152830	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152831	I guess that's what I meant by patching up. I mean, because when you do it this way, it's when I talk about patching up, the one where you don't solve the problems from scratch and don't get it all in, but just put a patch on with the risk that it's going to crack and that there's still going to be a hole. So when I talk patchy, it's because this doesn't solve the problems from scratch. What we do not want in Denmark is for there to be what should be said to be totalitarian trends, ideologies supported by external economies or supported by the Danish state. What each of us believes and thinks, we must of course do, but it cannot be right that the state or foreign states should support this kind of widespread in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152920	Thank you for that and there are no more brief comments from Mrs Pernille Vermund. But then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asked for the floor as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119152935	Following the debate here today inevitably leads the mind towards Charles Dickens's •A story about two cities: It was the best of all times, it was the worst of all times • my translation, President. And why is that? Yes, because we are clearly in a situation in which we are at war with Islamism • Islamism, which is far behind our own borders, and which in mosques in Denmark has deeply radicalised environments, where people recruit Islamists, jihadists, syrians, etc. We want to do something about that. In this sense, the bill here today is the best of times. However, when it is also the worst of times, yes, it is quite simply because there is no certainty whether you are hitting the right ones now. Are these the right ones to wage a counter-war? And that is what several rapporteurs have said here today, but where there is a complete ambiguity about what it really is, it is about a pseudo talk about democracy and human rights, which is completely irrelevant to the context: what is Denmark; what is it to belong to in Danish society? If you receive money from non-democratic states, should you not be able to function as a religion in Denmark? Well, of course. I must point out that the Vatican City State is completely antidemocratic; led by one man appointed by a number of men on one occasion and then appointed for life. It is not a democracy. But of course you should be able to receive money as a religion in Denmark from the Vatican City State. Anything else would be completely crazy. But it is equally crazy, of course, that as a radical mosque in Denmark you can receive money from Iran, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain or Qatar or from other places, which is part of the warfare that is taking place against Denmark, Danish culture, Danish traditions of freedom and the Danish constitution. And that is why it is profoundly revealing that the parties which, funny enough, over the last 30 years have voted for the people who are waging war against us to come behind our own borders, are today those who preach democracy, preaching human rights. Perhaps that whole sermon should have been waited until responsibility for the immigration policy that has then been carried out. What matters here is that it is about: Who wants Denmark? Who wants to be part of the Danish community? It is not a question of false concepts such as human rights or democracy rights. For of course you can be a part of Denmark, even if you are a Catholic and dream of living under the papal state. That is not the problem. The problem is, of course, whether you find it compatible with being Danish. And that is what is at stake, and that is why this debate today is so revealing. For there are some who are apparently only able to relate to being human as a function When you are Danish, you are born into a tradition; then you are born into a reality. And that is the tradition, and that is the reality that we, the 179 members of parliament, have chosen to protect, manage and develop. And that is why we have to say clearly that it is they who opt out of the Danish, those who opt out of the tradition that is our enemy, and that is who we are at war with. It is not a war we have declared, but a war that they have declared and which is repeatedly reminded us when terror strikes Paris when terror strikes Nice, when President Erdogan declares unwillingness, war and strife against our allies. That is basically the reality we find ourselves in, and there's this proposal a part of it matched. But in order to be part of the right response, we must also have an answer from the Minister as to whether we have understood the challenge, whether we have understood the problem; that this should not be a nuisance to those who are a perfectly normal and natural and historically living part of the Danish community. This is an answer to all those who do not want the Danish community. So now we wait, Minister. Is this the best of times, or is this the worst of times? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153326	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur started his speech by translating, but there were also a few English words, and I would remind you that in the Danish Parliament we speak Danish. On the way in Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's speech was a few English expressions, but let it be a reminder for another time. Reminder means something to remember. You can say English words if you translate them afterwards. But there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153400	Thank you. Now we may be moving a little off the subject, and I am, of course, sorry about that. I'm just trying to calm Mr. Simpson down. Morten Messerschmidt states that if we had had the opportunity in the Enhedslisten to hold the lesson, we could call it in human rights something earlier, we would have done so. Now it is just that unfortunately it is not the Enhedslisten who is responsible for the failed immigration and integration policies of the last 20 years. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt's own party, which has voted for the immigration policy which has been conducted for many years in this country. So I'm actually just gonna say to Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt: Let us take each other at the word here and say that from now on we do it so that when you come to Denmark, you will not only be taught language and the labour market; then you will also receive training in our constitution, in human rights and in our democracy. Because that must be the consequence of that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153500	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153501	You almost feel the need to use a foreign term of power when you hear Mrs Rosa Lund, but I will refrain from doing so. And then I would say that when you come from outside, especially when you come from Muslim countries, where the whole tradition, the whole culture and the whole religion rests in a way of thinking religion based on law, well then it is very difficult to settle in Denmark. When the Islamic world has stalled economically, politically and, as such, also religiously and in many other ways, this is due to the fact that Muslim thinking has a mix of law and religion. It is unknown to us in the West because we are so happy to have been set free by Christ, because that is what is Christianity: Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's! That is where what Mrs Rosa Lund says is so polished and false because she assumes that, as a Muslim coming to Denmark, you should suddenly be enlightened and embrace everything that is Danish. Obviously that is not happening, Mrs Rosa Lund. And that is why Enhedslisten's immigration policy has been a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153609	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153611	The reason it doesn't happen, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, isn't he? Morten Messerschmidt and his party have been quite successful in stretching out a lot of trip threads for integration. You make people poor, you make it harder to learn the language, you make it harder to be a part of society. Once again, I have to say how wonderful it would be if it were the Enhedslisten who was responsible for the failed immigration policy of the last 20 years. The truth is, it's not. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt's own party, which has voted for the foreign policy that makes us see a failed integration today. But maybe I just don't think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and I agree, but then you can go in and look at the votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153651	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153653	If it was really the case that it was the fault of the Danish People's Party that the Muslims are so inappropriate in Denmark, that is, if we acknowledge that premise for a while, how can it be that the same thing is true in a number of European countries where the Danish People's Party has never set up? So, can Mrs Rosa Lund find a single European country where Muslim integration has succeeded? On the contrary, I can see quite a lot of countries where things have gone far worse than in Denmark, where we have had the Danish People's Party. However, Rosa Lund is not now able to come to a third time, but I would like, if the President is prepared to do so, to ask the counter-question whether Mrs Rosa Lund can point to a single European country where Muslim integration has succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153727	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Morten Messerschmidt Is the honourable Member not allowed to answer that question? ) No, there are two brief remarks, which means that the rest of it can be discussed by the members of the Folketing in the sidelines. At least now we are through the rapporteur and also the privateists, so now is the time to get the minister on the line. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119153801	Is it the best of all times or the worst of all times? In fact, I recently read Charles Dickens' book "A tale of two cities', and it struck me that at that time it was the worst of all times in the sense that there was poverty, women's oppression, religious oppression and an undeveloped democracy, but at the same time it is the story of Paris and London at a time in Europe's history where our society is evolving, where our society is marked by the Enlightenment and where the first cautious building blocks for European democracy are laid, and I think Dickens has a look for both. Today, as a Social Democrat, when I am so concerned that we are so insistent on defending Danish democracy, it is also because it is not only because, but also because I believe that the society that has a high degree of equality, a high degree of freedom and a high level of equality can only exist if democracy actively defends the principles on which it itself is based. And I am convinced that there are people in our society who are actively undermining, undermining and fighting precisely those principles, and that we have probably been a little too naive and a little too late to discover how consciously the foundations of our society are quietly being undermined. It is not as bad in Denmark as I think it is in other European countries, but it should not prevent us from taking initiatives which this bill is just a cautious step towards. That is why I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on the legislative proposal. I also think that the debate here shows that there is, in fact, broad political consensus that the very foundations of our democracy and our constitution and everything that is so fundamental to our society must be defended. In fact, I have not heard a single party on the platform disagree with that. Unfortunately, it is not self-evident that we have the necessary safeguards around our democracy that are needed. I believe that it requires more active action and political will to set a limit when necessary. And I think it is when it comes to donations from anti-democratic forces to, for example. religious institutions in Danish society. It is therefore important for us in the government to take a step towards ending the forces that will undermine our democracy. This is also true in relation to donations, because, as the Conservative rapporteur says and an old phrase says: whoever pays the orchestra can also help pay for the music. That's why we shouldn't be naive. Money and gifts are not necessarily always neutral charity. Overall, therefore, with this bill, the government wants to make it forbidden in Denmark to receive anti-democratic donations. Specifically, the aim of the draft law is to prevent natural and legal persons from working against or undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights by giving donations. This also applies to foreign government authorities and state-controlled organisations and companies. With the bill, we propose the establishment of a system whereby, on the recommendation of the Foreign Affairs Council, the Foreign Minister can decide on the admission of both natural and legal persons who oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights; they must be able to be included on a list of prohibitions. Prior to specific decisions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be consulted on any significant foreign policy implications. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considers that the inclusion of the person concerned in the public list of prohibitions could have significant foreign policy implications, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration fails to include this natural or legal person on the list of prohibitions. Otherwise, the natural or legal person will have to be included in the list of prohibitions if the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration considers that the conditions for such inclusion are otherwise fulfilled. In connection with the inclusion of the person on the list, a concrete and individual assessment will have to be made as to whether the person in question is working against or undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. It will also be a prerequisite that there is a certain likelihood that the person concerned intends to provide donations to Denmark. The list of prohibitions shall be drawn up for four years and may be renewed for four years at a time. It will be based on a concrete assessment which personal data will be necessary to publish in each case in order to ensure a precise identification of the person concerned. It is proposed that it be prohibited to receive one or more donations which, individually or in combination within 12 consecutive months, exceed DKK 10,000. from a natural or legal person included in the public prohibition list. A violation of the ban would be punishable by a fine. In cases where, only after the date of receipt of a donation from a person on the prohibition list, the recipient becomes aware of receipt, and also at the time of receipt should not have been aware of receipt, the recipient shall return the donation to the donor or, if that is not possible, transfer it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Donations in the form of amounts other than sums of money that cannot be returned will have to be collected by the recipient on terms previously approved by the Ministry and an amount equal to the selling price minus any costs associated with the sale would have to be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A breach of the obligation to return or transfer the donation may also be punishable by a fine. Enforcement of the ban would have to take place within the general principles of the Code of Procedure, and illegally received donations could be confiscated. Quitting anti-democratic donations is obviously not an easy task, and there will probably be many challenges in completely closing off anti-democratic donations. But it must not stop us from taking action, taking a step and defending the fundamental values of Danish society, and, as the proposed bill shows, the government is proposing that the scheme should be evaluated three years after its entry into force, and we are working after its entry into force on 1 February next year. Then we will have to look at whether it has worked as intended and see where we might be able to improve the system. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this proposal for a donation law is not, of course, alone, but must be seen as one of several steps that the government will take in order to put an end to extremist forces. For example: We are also going to put forward a legislative proposal before Christmas to strengthen efforts to combat negative social control, and we are also looking at whether greater openness can be created about the sermons held in languages other than Danish. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154445	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154450	After all, in the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned about stopping donations from Iran, Saudi Arabia and the Muslim Brotherhood if this happens. How likely are we to see Saudi Arabia, Iran or the Muslim Brotherhood on a list of countries and organisations from which donations are not allowed? That is one question. The second question is: can the Minister assure us that free churches or foreign ecclesiastical communities in Denmark, who speak against abortion, against homo-marriage, against female preachers, etc., will not be affected by this legislation because they receive donations from like-minded people outside the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154547	Firstly, about the specific countries mentioned by the rapporteur, for example. Saudi Arabia and Iran: After all, it is the case that the Foreigners' Authority is called upon to take a case and that the Foreigners' Minister has to make the final decision, and if I already make it probable which countries' authorities could end up on such a list, I will therefore also make the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreigners' Authority inadvisable in the handling of these cases. So I am not even making an assessment of whether it is likely that authorities in those countries will be able to end up on the list. Around the ecclesiastical organisations, we have tried on pages 9 and 10 of the draft law to write a little about what we understand by anti-democratic organisations and individuals and authorities, and in this it says, among other things, that it is not in itself enough for a religious organization, for example. speaks against women in the pulpit. In other words, it is not enough for it to be based on an anti-democratic organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154653	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154659	However, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten's question made it very clear just now what problems may be in defining what it is to be anti-democratic. I am well aware that opposition to female priests has been mentioned in the bill, but opposition to abortion, opposition to homo-marriage are not included. So I would like to make a comment on that. In addition, if we just end up with Russia and China being on the list for them, then we are still upset with the fact that we are not hitting the extreme Muslim organisations and countries that we want to hit. That is why I would call for real care to be taken to pursue what is the objective, namely Islamic organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154742	I would like to say that, for example, we do. already today has a list of hate preachers who cannot enter the Schengen area and therefore into Denmark. It is true, as a single rapporteur mentioned on the platform I do not remember who on that list, as far as I remember, is also an American Christian preacher who has been considered a preacher who has such hateful utterances that he should not be able to enter the Schengen area. That is why it is not an imam list, but a list of hate preachers, and in the same way, on this list, there can be both extreme Christian and extreme Islamic organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154825	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154827	Thank you. I think the issue is extremely relevant and I really hope that we can focus on this in committee. In other words, if you give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs such extensive powers in this bill, we risk sitting here and voting in favour of a legislative proposal in which, because you dare not say it as it is, that the problem is political Islam, Islamism, or whatever we call it, you hit the wrong people and let those whom you really wanted to hit go free. Let's take Turkey. Turkey is a member of NATO and Turkey is a country which currently has a President who uses Islamism in his political activities and who is not pale to send imams with an Islamic political message also to Denmark. Should Turkey and should Erdogan's Diyanet continue to be able to finance mosques in Denmark because they are members of NATO and therefore constitute security concerns seen with the glasses of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119154937	I would like to start by saying that it is ultimately the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who can put people, organisations and authorities on the list. So the specific person who is a minister at that time must also assess whether the conditions are met, and I would like to say myself that if all I can see is that there is an organisation that has spoken against abortion, then I do not think that this is the basis for the organisation to be anti-democratic. It is an organisation with which I openly disagree on the issue of abortion, but that does not mean that the organisation is undermining Danish democracy. I do not know whether Mrs Rosa Lund, if she were a minister, would have the same assessment, but there will then be some influence to be able to make that decision with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration at any time. It is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays a role in the model that has been incorporated into this bill, and it is also because the decisions we can make, which may seem obvious in a narrow Danish context, may have some security policy implications in an international context. That is one of the reasons why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be consulted, and I think that actually makes quite good sense to myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155049	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155050	But it does not just say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be consulted; it says that the person concerned should not be included in the list of prohibitions. That is why I think it is extremely relevant if we are talking about states, and we could also go into the organisations that typically give the money, to get an assessment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now about whether the organisations that we know we want to hit will be smoking on a no-go list of various foreign policy considerations. I think it is extremely relevant if we are to be able to vote in favour of this, that we know that we have some legislation that actually works and that it does not end up as a patch solution that hits the wrong ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155134	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155135	It is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not just a consultation party, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to say, with the proposed bill, that the specific authority that you are proposing should not be on the list. That's right. But it also says that it must be important foreign policy considerations. That is to say, it is not just because it is a little uncomfortable, but it must be important foreign policy considerations, and I think it is quite appropriate to have it drilled into committee reading. I do not think it will be possible to get the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to say in advance that precisely these and those authorities will not be able to come up with. But it may well be that we can get it deeper than what is in the legislative notes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155213	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155216	After all, I have been pleased to see that the Minister himself has been involved in the history, as I mentioned earlier, of our Conservative Member, Roya Moore, with an Iranian background. Now I am not going to repeat the whole story with the Iranian embassy who contacted her. Will the government look in the light of e.g. That story is actively doing everything you can to get a country like Iran on this list of sanctions? And now that we are in the process, will the government do the same with regard to Saudi Arabia, which also supports mosques here in Denmark and promotes their political ideology?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155254	I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Conservatives that this will be a classic ministerial response. Because we are interested that Danish democracy should not be undermined by donations from abroad, which provide them with a view to undermining everything that our society is built on. If I already mention specific authorities in, for example, here from the platform. Saudi Arabia or Iran, to which the rapporteur refers, I would also like, at the same time, to make the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs inadvisable in the possibility of being able to deal with specific cases, such as: could be about the authorities to which the questioner refers. Therefore, I will insist on staying on the big blade and talking in general about how the model is being screwed up, and I will not deal with specific authorities or specific individuals. I'm sure this list, once it's worked for a while, will be a public list. Then it will be quite obvious to everyone whether it is the Pope State, Iran, Russia and China, or whether it is the Mormons who are on the list. I am quite clearly convinced that, if this bill has hit awkwardly, we shall be in the Chamber fairly quickly again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155414	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155415	Let me say that I hope it will not be the Pope's State, and I cannot imagine that the Minister himself could imagine that. Let me ask the slightly wider blade, because I myself have been a little confused about the question of to what extent you can put not only a state-owned organisation, but a state such as the State of Iran, the State of Turkey and the State of Saudi Arabia on: will the Minister work to ensure that specific states and not just state-sponsored organisations can also be put on?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155449	The list consists of natural and legal persons, so that means that it may be Mr. Jensen, and these can be the following cvr numbers both at home and abroad. This means that it will not be prohibited to receive donations simply because they come from a particular country. They will have to be from an organization, a person in flesh and blood or for example. a government authority. So in the sense that some countries have authorities under ministries which intend to pursue the political interests of the state abroad, the specific authority will be able to enter the list of prohibitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155531	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155534	Thank you. I would like to say that a number of questions have been put forward while the Minister has stood on the floor. So let me start here: can the Minister not confirm that the aim of this bill is to stop donations from everyone who undermines our democracy, and not, as Mrs Marie Krarup and Mrs Pernille Vermund say, to stop donations exclusively from Islamist people who want to undermine our democracy? After all, the target group is everyone who wants to undermine our democracy. I would like the Minister to confirm or deny that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155619	The bill aims to defend democracy, not to attack Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155627	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155631	Thank you. My second question is whether the Minister will not comment on some of the consultation answers that are concerned about legal certainty in this, i.e. that the hearing of the parties will somehow go away. That is a concern that I could share, I would like to say, and I would like to hear the Minister's comments on the answers that have just been given. That's one of them. Lawyer's council.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155659	I would like to start by saying that, as far as possible, the administrative law must be followed when dealing with this matter. When I say as much as possible, it is among other things. because of the consultation process of the parties, which has not been set up for several reasons. This is partly because we have a fear that if people are being heard and are discovering that they are smoking on a list, there will be an opportunity to transfer money before the party hearing is over, but also because we assume that many of those who want to be on this list are staying abroad, and there will be obvious reasons why it will be difficult for us to listen to them. But there is an opportunity to bring it before both the Danish Parliament Ombudsman and the Danish courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155744	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155746	We have two problems in this proposal. One is: Is it too widely understood in Denmark that some of the ecclesiastical societies that have been completely seamlessly part of Denmark and Danish culture for hundreds of years, in some cases, could be affected because they may be against female preachers or perhaps receive money from a state such as the Vatican, which is not democratic, etc.? Then we have the question with regard to the countries of dispatch, namely whether it is too narrow. In other words, an organization or a person who wants to transfer money from, for example, someone who wants to transfer money from. Saudi Arabia, could just use his cousin or some other strawman who wouldn't happen to be on the list? In particular, I do not think the Minister has given a clear answer to the latter. Well, why can't you just put an entire country on? What is the idea that there should be money for friendly purposes from, for example. Saudi Arabia? Why not just say that it is not possible to send money from Saudi Arabia to mosques in Denmark so as to avoid the problem of strawberry?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119155900	To the first question, whether it is too broad at home, I would say: the questioner says that there are also some religions that have worked completely smoothly for many, many years. This is one of the things we are trying to deal with in the draft law's comments on pages 9 and 10, where we have provided examples of what does not in itself mean that you are included in the list. I would also urge everyone interested in it to perhaps just ask written questions specifically about those sections and ask to have them unfolded, because I have no interest in organisations that have worked completely smoothly suddenly getting into trouble. Because that's not what we're talking about here. To the second question, whether it is too narrow a framework abroad, I would say, as I have also said to the press, that I do not think this is a waterproof solution. I mean, there are opportunities to use strawmen. The authorities, the Foreigners' Authority, will of course also pursue the cash flows if they are able to do so, but the questioner also knows himself that if the money can be transferred via Switzerland or anything else, then it can be difficult to follow the cash flows. So I think we should see this as one step towards gaining more control over the money that comes into our society, but we should not pretend to each other that then the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160018	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160019	It is precisely for this reason that perhaps there is also reason to consider whether the law should be drafted more broadly, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned; that it is simply said that it is the country of transfer and not the legal or natural person, because I do not assume that the concept of legal person should be understood so broadly that it is a country. You could do that. It could simply be said that for countries led by wahabism or other very radical Islamic beliefs, transfers are simply closed off. This will not, of course, prevent the transfer to Switzerland, for example, but we could then talk to the good people down in Switzerland. They're rational people you can talk to. So why not have a country as a legal person or as a subject of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160102	It is true that a country should not be understood as a legal person. It will be a specific authority that will be on the list. There are discussions in several other European countries about the same thing that we are discussing here. I had a telephone meeting earlier this week with a minister from Austria, where they have a slightly different model from ours. They have a basic rule that you cannot grant operating aid from abroad to religious institutions in Austria, but you can make single donations. So you can make a donation for example. to build a mosque, but you can't pay imams in Austria. For example, it has. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). So there are several different models. I feel this way: let us get on with this, let us keep the channels open and have the antennas out, let the interest and curiosity be open in relation to other Western countries that are in the same situation, and let us be willing to discuss with each other whether we have hit the spot or whether we can learn something from the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160154	We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160220	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160227	Thank you, President. This bill strengthens the control of foreign labour from third countries. Unfortunately, this has proved necessary. In December last year the magazine 3F revealed how hundreds of Chinese chefs worked 80 hours a week for approx. 20 kroner. It's an hour. The many cooks not only worked for too low wages; many of them also lived in poor conditions. When they didn't work, some of them slept in small storage rooms in the restaurants. In other words, it was modern slavery. We must, of course, ensure that Danish companies that behave properly and comply with the rules for the employment of foreign workers have good framework conditions for attracting and maintaining foreign labour. It benefits Denmark in many areas, but unfortunately in Denmark there are still unscrupulous employers in 2020, which is why we need to strengthen control. The draft law we are considering contains a number of good initiatives. Foreigners on occupational schemes must have paid their wages in a Danish bank account. It is only pay that is paid in a Danish bank account which forms the basis for the assessment of whether a foreign worker is employed under normal terms and conditions of employment. Diets, lodgings, diets, free telephones and other things will not be counted as wages. There will be a better chance of rejecting applications for work permits if there is a presumption of fraud and a presumption of refusal will be introduced in the field of internship, so that we guard against trainees being used as real labour. Husbands or other accompanying family members must in future have a separate work permit, and the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration is empowered to carry out checks at work. There are a number of other good control mechanisms, but I can sense the President saying that my time has passed and I just have to say that the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160525	I'm sorry for the confusion. The rapporteur is required to address paragraph 18. L 92. And he's kept it fine. Then I think we can thank the rapporteur, unless there are requests for short remarks. That's from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160606	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is not the labour market rapporteur, but I hope that the rapporteur will try to think a little about it anyway. In fact, I think that the Danish Employers' Association has a very good point in their hearing answer, which I think will make this good bill even better. And that is in relation to the accompanying spouse. We have seen great problems with it in relation to the Chinese chefs. These are some of the cases that have been most advanced and most discussed. However, the Danish Employers' Association says that the collective agreement ensures that employees receive a good salary and therefore cannot be in the abuse situation referred to by the bill. I think that is quite a good point, so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur will help in the work of the committee to see whether we should actually safeguard the rights of the accompanying spouse by saying that it should be on the usual pay and working conditions, that is to say that we should ensure proper pay and that we have rights in relation to that part, instead of not having to be in the same company that you have the work permit. Because that's where I'm thinking we can really make sure it's not being abused and there's no cheating.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160719	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160720	At any rate, I can say that the crucial thing for us is to create a cat here that can catch mice. We must find a model in which we go beyond the fact that there may be married couples who come here, for example, on the man's permission, because in that way you can live up to an amount limit, but that in practice it is the case that two people are working to reach that level, for example. as a Chinese chef, or what do I know? And if there is a need to make it clear that they are here on their own basis, or what do I know, then we are open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160758	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160759	Thank you. But I think it's okay that you work in the same company. In other words, the important thing is that it is not abused to create social dumping. And there I think that we can be well inspired by other laws, for example. of the freight law, which says that there are actually demands on what wages should be. I do not know whether we should think out of the box and say that if it is not observed that the accompanying spouse gets the pay and working conditions he or she should have, then the employer gets a fine there could also be some other ways to do it so that it can still be flexible. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will be involved in agreeing on those ideas so that we will actually have the best protection when we have, from the start, the law against social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160841	I think it is obvious that we will continue to talk about this in the committee's work. And it is clear that if, for example, a couple gets employment in Coop, or whatever, in a very large company, that should not in itself be a problem. So we have to find some practical solution to that. But let us continue to talk about this in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160901	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160903	Thank you. I understand very well the intention here with the bill that social dumping will be eliminated by introducing a number of control measures. However, from the point of view of mine and the spectacles of the Radicals, it should also be proportional in relation to the fact that foreign labour also contributes to growth and prosperity in Denmark. Will the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119160931	Yeah, I'd like that. Foreign labour is a great advantage when foreign labour comes on fixed terms. Therefore, it is also important that, for example, the limit is at a high level, so that you are not in competition with, for example, Danish unskilled and out-compete Danish unskilled for the benefit of people coming from other parts of the world. That's why the people who can live up to the limit are typically people who have some special skills... it could be engineer-educated, or what do I know, as there is a shortage here at home... and they play an important role in the Danish labour market, and we welcome them in every way. Now I used the example of the Chinese chefs, and there have been other examples of people trying to bypass the various business schemes, so that people come in on an unreasonable basis and undercut Danish employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161030	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161030-2	However, there are also companies that ensure that things are done properly. Does the rapporteur not think that it is unreasonable to set aside, for example? this demand for a Danish bank account for companies that really do things properly and have a desire to attract foreign labour? And this has to be done as little bureaucratic as possible, because there are also companies that act globally, and their employees have a high level of mobility, because their appointments are of shorter duration, and there will be such a demand for a Danish bank account.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161107	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161109	It is true that, unfortunately, it is a condition that, because there is a small group that does not have pure flour in the bag, all the companies that behave properly will suffer. I would agree with Mrs Samira Nawa that it is a pity that this should be the case, but I do not think we are going to get around the need to tighten this up, and that is why, unfortunately, there are also some of the things that we will not get around with many of the companies that behave properly. But I hope, after all, that they will not be more of a nuisance than they are able to overcome. I trust that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161143	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161149	Thank you. The written submission of the bill states: "Danske virksomheder must be able to cope with international competition, and it must therefore be easy and unbureaucratic for Danish companies to recruit highly qualified and skilled foreign employees. ▪ New citizens are so much in favour of an alien policy that ensures that foreigners who do not contribute value to our society are lost or sent out in the event that they are already here. However, we are also in favour of an alien policy in which we ensure that foreigners who create value for our society, either for a short time or because they live here for a long time, have conditions that are reasonable and that for the business that we have, which very much feeds on foreigners who live here briefly or permanently, it is also possible to deal with. The economic growth and prosperity that they create is, after all, economic growth and prosperity which benefit all of us, and so I have to ask the rapporteur: is it the rapporteur's conviction that this bill really meets what is stated in the introduction to the proposal, precisely that it should be easy and unbureaucratic for Danish companies to get foreign workers to do so, and that this bill promotes the easy and unbureaucratic, or does it really do the opposite, namely make it more bureaucratic and more difficult?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161313	I am actually confident that companies that have pure flour in the bag will be able to meet these requirements relatively easily, and this also applies to companies that need specialised foreign labour. There are, of course, to some extent two scales that we need to balance here, where on the one hand we have the fact that unfortunately there are some unscrupulous employers who have abused our occupational schemes to undermine working conditions in the Danish labour market by bringing people into the labour market from third countries who then work on unfair terms and thus also help to outperform Danish employees, and, on the other hand, we have a concern that the business community should be able to attract specialised labour. It is clear that this balance must be struck, and it is also clear that this bill is not for the benefit of business. It is not really possible to avoid the fact that it is not if one had to make it up in isolation from it, but I do not think, however, and it is a little in line with my reply to Mrs Samira Nawa, that it is insurmountable changes and control mechanisms that are now being put up here if one actually has flour in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161422	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161423	After all, business is not just such closed units, it is all of us. It's all of us, in terms of whether we're employees or self-employed, or we're just right now. Some people who live from the public sector and thus benefit from the economic growth generated by the private sector. So if it is not for the benefit of the business community, it is not for the benefit of Denmark. For whom, then, is it beneficial?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161453	I still believe that it can be said that it will indirectly benefit the business community, because if we, here in the Parliamentary Chamber and among the employees in Denmark, are to have the support that we need to have business arrangements that allow people from the Third World or from third countries outside the European Union who otherwise do not have free movement to come here relatively simply, then we also need to ensure that the way this is done is controlled and proper, so that we do not get cases like those I described with the Chinese chefs. This helps to preserve the legitimacy of our business systems, and the business community needs this, because there is no doubt that business systems are important. As a small open economy in a large, globalised world, we benefit greatly from being able to attract employees from all over the world, including outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161536	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161536-2	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Pernille Vermund says here, because there are parts of this that are not business-friendly. I assume, of course, that we have all read the consultation answers, even when it comes to Danske Rederier, and when it comes to the Danish Employers' Association. You can just take the example that you have to have a Danish bank account within 3 months. If you talk about a company like Saxo Bank, which has many IT programmers who may come in and be here for 4 months and then travel back to the country they come from, it will make everything else more difficult for them. So will the social democracy help to soften some of the things that make it difficult to attract foreign labour in relation to the parts that I do not at least think are positive in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161625	I will probably return to some of the answers I have given earlier to Mrs Samira Nawa and Mrs Pernille Vermund, because it is true that there are some of these things that do not directly benefit from saying so. These are additional control mechanisms. There are a number of control mechanisms in this bill, which will have an impact on Danish business. We don't really get around that. However, I just think that we have a consideration where, on the one hand, we have to make sure that we have some good business arrangements that are available and to use them, and I do not think that this bill is going to end with • and, on the other hand, we have to keep track of the Danish labour market and ensure that there are no people coming in from the Third World and undermining Danish employees. That is also a very important consideration here. The fact that we do not want to accept modern slavery in Denmark, as I do, for example. We believe that in relation to the conditions on which the Chinese chefs, of whom 3F provided examples, were treated and lived under in Denmark, there is a need for some tightening up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161726	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161727	Well, the Chinese chefs and some of the other terrible examples that have been in the media, we can all agree on that. But the rapporteur used a phrase earlier, namely that we would not hit those who have pure flour in the bag. But when you set such difficult limits for all companies, such as the 3 months for a Danish bank account, you also hit those who have pure flour in the bag. There are, among other things, 400 certified companies which have access to foreign labour. These could be done, for example. exception, because you know in advance that because they are certified, they have pure flour in the bag. Could it be a way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161804	It is true that there is a dividing line. After a number of months you have to have a Danish bank account, and that is precisely to accommodate some of what Mr. Marcus Knuth points out that there must also be some flexibility and agility in the exchange of employees and people from subsidiaries in other parts of the world, etc. However, somewhere the cutting line must lie, and I do not think that the control mechanisms we are setting up here are unreasonable. I'll have to say that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161841	Then no one else has signed up for Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund. And I apologise very much for both taking the floor and disturbing the rapporteur's speech. But apparently it was up on the board that it was wrong, compared to what bill had been put up. It was confusion, it wasn't evil intent. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119161909	Thank you for the floor. Danish companies must have easy and unbureaucratic access to the labour they need, even across national borders. And vice versa: If you seek and get a job here and make us all richer by being part of our working community, then you don't have to go through a lot of obstacles to get to work either. For foreign labour is a big gain for society. It contributes knowledge and treasures to our common welfare. The recruitment of foreign workers must, of course, take place under orderly conditions, so that Danish and foreign workers compete on equal terms. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of how the current rules are being circumvented and exploited, among other things. in the case of Chinese married couples working for one salary on the amount scheme. This is unacceptable and I fully agree with the government that we need to close that gap. That is why the Left can support the part about SIRI being able to refuse a residence permit if there is a presumption that companies are trying to cheat, trying to circumvent the rules. The proposal tightens the rules for all occupational schemes so that it is now a requirement that the entire wage must be paid in cash in a Danish bank account to be included in the assessment of wage levels. The Left cannot support this, as it will cause a great deal of trouble for foreigners and businesses. It must be easy and flexible to get qualified labour to Denmark, no more difficult. In addition, it is also very difficult, almost impossible, to create a Danish bank account as a foreigner. It's a leg buckle we're gonna regret. The demand for a Danish bank account is disproportionately, and that makes it harder and more bureaucratic for all those who do not cheat. What about all those who work at sea, on ships, drilling platforms etc.? They may sign on and sign off in another country and will never enter Danish soil. They will never have the opportunity to crash into a Danish bank and create an account. We should not stumble on foreigners and companies, so skilled foreign workers choose a different country of work from Denmark. This includes the requirement for cash which weakens the ability of companies to recruit foreign labour in line with Danish labour force. The Left is of the opinion that wages in the form of housing, transport and accommodation can easily be included in the assessment of wage levels when SIRI has to decide whether an employment takes place under normal wage and salary conditions. As I said at the outset, we in the Left believe that there are some good intentions behind the proposal that we are discussing today. However, we must be careful not to introduce a lot of regulations and bureaucracy which will affect businesses and foreigners who do not intend to cheat. We need foreign employees, because they create great value for Denmark, and they are an essential foundation for companies to develop and compete with others. In those words, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162214	Mrs Victoria Velasquez has a question for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162215	Thank you. I would otherwise have hoped that the rapporteur would say that it was a mistake that, under the leadership of the Left, it had not actually been cleared up here when we took up the idea that half of the salary could constitute food and lodging, and that it was only corrected at the limit. Some of the problems we see where there are slave-like conditions, some of the problems we see where people are in a grotesque situation, are precisely because this is so difficult. And that's why I just don't understand. After all, you have the opportunity to rent a home, including your employer, for that matter. Even if you get a real salary, i.e. that you are actually paid in your account, it doesn't prevent you from renting an accommodation from your employer. All you have to do is have a rental contract and transfer the money, just like we do in relation to other citizens in this country. So why put up such a false contrast? Well, it's easy to get the opportunity to rent a place. I can be afraid that instead of seeing that it will be a way to exploit it in terms of being able to pay lower wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162327	I think it's called a strawman when you're given an argument you don't really have. And now we were just talking about putting up such a false setup. Well, we're not talking in the Left about someone being here on slave-like relationships. We're just talking about housing and eating can easily be part of the salary. It is at home, too, if you're a boarding school teacher and something else. This does not mean that you do not have to have a wage that you can live on, and it must be so that it is not in any way an artificially high cost of living or an artificially high cost of housing. So let us get the right proportions into this debate and not shoot each other in the shoes, which none of us really stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162415	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162416	I regret that the rapporteur thinks it is a strawman. But you haven't done anything about it on the part of the party. This problem has not been dealt with by the rapporteur's party. You haven't done anything to change it. We know that's a fact. It has been in the press that several of us are aware of several cases where this has been a problem. And you haven't responded to it. That's why I'm thinking, aren't you nervous about this problem? But otherwise, if the rapporteur will be quite specific about the fact that if this is not what we have to do, what will the rapporteur's party propose that we do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162449	Well, I would like to repeat the part of my speech in which I say that all the parts of the proposal that support SIRI's ability to eliminate the exploitation of labour in Denmark are supported. I've just pointed out some areas where we don't agree. We agree with the problem. I can send you my speech afterwards, so we'll be clear about what I said from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162523	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mads Birded. No one else has signed up, and we must move on to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119162534	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we think this bill is fair. We have had a lot of discussions about, among other things. Chinese chefs, and of course you should not be able to come as a cook from China, work at a Danish restaurant and have your spouse with, who then works for free, i.e. for the same money; that is clear. Of course, you must be allowed to bring your spouse along, and of course your spouse must also be able to take work elsewhere, in a business or in a restaurant that is not in the same chain as where you work. Of course, if you are going to work in the same place, the spouse must also have a residence permit, and you must have a separate salary; that is clear. After all, we are in favour of equality here in Denmark, and that means that a woman should not, of course, work for her husband's money. She's gonna have to get her own paycheck. I guess it's something that gives itself up. At least that's the way it is in my universe. You shouldn't just say that it's all your pay and that the woman shouldn't get paid that she can get some charity from the man. This has something to do with equality in this matter. Of course, as I said, you have to be able to get the spouse, but there must also be arrangements, and you should not work two for the same wage. There is no doubt about that. When you look at this with a bank account, it is arranged in such a way in today's Denmark that everyone must have a bank account, everyone must have an easy account. This also applies to the foreigners who work here. Of course they must have an account in Denmark which the money can enter; that is clear. There has to be control over what you get in pay and what you pay taxes on. So, of course, you have to have a Danish bank account that the money goes into. It is also so in relation to the level of pay that it has to be based on real wage levels and not be such that it is all sorts of other benefits that go in as part of the salary and that the alien is then left with a small salary because the employer may take a very high rent. The employee can receive the salary, and then you can find an apartment or accommodation for yourself. It may be that the employer then says: I have a residence you can rent. But then you pay it out of the pay you get in the same way as all Danes do, so you pay rent out of the pay you get. Of course you do. And it is right and proper that the money should go into a Danish bank account, at least in the Danish People's Party's optics. It is also right and proper that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration may reject foreigners who come if they do not have pure flour in the bag, if they consider it to be abuse in this regard. We think that is also right and proper. It is also right and proper that an employer should be able to present a roster. In other words, when you are at a Danish workplace, you get paid after the hours you have, and you document that. For many years I have been out at a job, and there you stamped in so that the employer could see exactly how many hours you had been at work. You got paid after that, and of course you also have to be able to do it as a foreigner that you get paid for the hours you work. That must be fair and fair, and it should not be a matter of cheating on the weight of how many hours you have worked. You have to get paid for the hours you work. This is what Danish society is built on. It should not be the case that we have to deal with American conditions where we have these working powers, even if they have a project over there, so it looks like they're getting double-paying. But that is not the arrangement we have in Denmark. Here you have to have proper conditions and proper pay conditions. We in the Danish People's Party think this is right and fair, and this is being corrected with this bill, which the Danish People's Party can support. This is a major step in the right direction in order to avoid social dumping in many areas. Some questions have then been raised about how and how the various things are: the creation of a bank account and all that, and I must say a little about the area of the bank account, because the point of 90 days, 3 months, within 3 months and after 90 days, I think, Minister, could have been written more understandably so that foreigners could also understand it. It is rather tricky that it should be mixed with the time of entry, i.e. whether you have been here before you have been granted a residence permit, and whether it is within 90 days, after 90 days, 3 months or when. I think the Minister should perhaps get his officials to go through that point because it seems very incomprehensible, and I think there are many foreigners who come in and who, if they look at this, may have a little difficulty in creating a bank account. But it's just a suggestion: Try to look at if it couldn't be written a little more understandably. Otherwise, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163110	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163114	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur and I have already talked about this, but I would just like to know whether the rapporteur would still like to be involved in ensuring that wages and working conditions are in order and will be representative of what we can see averages in relation to Denmark, so that it will not be used for social dumping for the person who gets the work permit, and that we also look at the income of the accompanying spouse and maybe actually see if it is there, the fence should be made, so that we ensure that the spouse, woman or man, or whatever, gets the salary that he or she should have if he or she is to escape with the usual pay and working conditions that we have in this country. Will the rapporteur tell us whether the Danish People's Party is open to looking at a solution there?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163208	I think this is a point that needs to be looked at a little more, because when you look at the Chinese chefs - especially among those who are many times a accompanying spouse - they have gone into the system of amounts. It says that you can always have accompanying spouses who do not need a work permit but can take work elsewhere. There is no mention of whether it is also on the system of amounts or what conditions they fall under. I think that we may need clarification in the work of the committee, and I would urge the Minister to provide a little more detailed information on what is really going on and what conditions accompanying spouses are going to work under, because they have not fallen below the threshold. What are the economic and wage conditions under which they are to work? We would ask the Minister to give an answer to this in the course of the committee's deliberations here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163305	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163306	Exactly! I think that's a really good point. We have also seen that some of these companies are extremely creative in cheating. Well, they're just gonna set up another CVR number. and make a work permit there, but still switch or move around or otherwise cheat on the scheme? So it could be very good if we could basically ensure proper protection against social dumping. So I am very pleased that the rapporteur will help to look at the terms and conditions of employment and working conditions of the accompanying spouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163337	As I have read it, it is not possible to work if it is in a coherent company, and that is to say that a company cannot just create a different CVR number if there is a link between the two companies, but the Minister must then describe that in more detail. I want to know whether the Minister will look at it with what it is with regard to pay and financial conditions, with accompanying spouses who have not come below the threshold, but are allowed to join because the spouse has come to Denmark, lives under and what demands are made on them, and whether it is the normal wage conditions on the Danish labour market that are made as demands or what it is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163421	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left is next in the rapporteur's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163427	Thank you. In order for Danish companies to be able to cope in a globalised world of fierce competition, it is essential that companies have access to foreign labour. And in the debate on foreign labour, it sometimes sounds as if it could be a zero-sum game. That is not the case. The attraction of foreign labour is a plussum game. Unemployment fell, for example. from 6.1 per cent. at 3.7 per cent. during a period when the number of foreign workers came close to doubling. It must be easy for companies to attract foreign labour easily and as unbureaucratically as possible. At the same time, it must be ensured that there are proper conditions for workers. That balance must be struck properly, and it does not quite do so when the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, in his rapporteur's speech, says that it is not for the benefit of business. Finally, in the Radical Left, we actually support the part of the legislative proposal relating to the control elements, that is to say the part relating to the possibility of the use of labour by SIRI. However, the arrangements for payment of wages to a Danish bank account and the requirement for a separate work permit for the spouse seem quite intrusive and also lack proportionality. That is why we in the Radical Left would like to ask for a split of the legislative proposal so that we can vote in favour of those parts of the legislative proposal that we actually support. And I guess that's what it was from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163629	Yes, but there are a few comments, and the first one is from sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163634	Thank you. Sometimes it's flattering to be quoted, sometimes it's not, and I may have thought that the way I was quoted here was a little out of order, because I think that the context was missing a little bit. The reason I said, as I did, was that if the only consideration this bill had to take was that the balance was about business interests, then it is clear that in isolation it is not beneficial there. But there are just two scales. There are, on the one hand, business interests, the importance of obtaining qualified labour for Denmark from third countries, and, on the other hand, the fact that we are not getting people from third countries into undercutting Danish labour. Those considerations must be balanced. Here we think that in the light of some of the examples we have seen with, among other things. The Chinese chefs need to tighten up the controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163723	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163725	Well then, I am sorry if the questioner does not think that it hit quite right or was taken out of context. That's how I heard it. But the questioner says it right. It must strike a balance, and we then disagree on where that balance is going, because we really believe that it is out of balance with this bank account requirement, especially when it comes to the fact that some companies need a high level of mobility, a high degree of replacement of their employees, and then they have to meet the Danish bank account requirement within a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163807	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Will Mr. Rasmus Stoklund have the floor?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163811	Now the President gave it to me, and then I thought that I could say that after all there are three months when you do not need to have a bank account. There I think, also a little in the wake of what Mr. Bent Bøgsted said that it is not insignificant that when you get beyond it, there is a need for some control over tax payments, etc., and where the money is otherwise channelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163841	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163842	Thank you. Three months may seem like a long time, but it may also be a short time if it is heavy administration that needs to be done, and you really just want a workforce that comes in and works again etc., and that is something that companies themselves point out. That is why we in the Radical Left say that this part of the bill is not something we can support. But the part where the problems are dealt with, as we have seen, for example. Chinese chefs, we'd like to back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163914	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119163916	Thank you. One of the things that I find very rewarding in working with the rapporteur is that we see people, no matter where they are from in the world, as equals; we see them as colleagues and not as opponents. That is why I also think that, for the rapporteur, it is fundamentally unfair when it is that some people are exploited and exploited in the way we have seen countless examples of. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur what other proposals the Radical Left is thinking could come up with if it is not to be these things. Well, it's just that we've seen that the pay is being cheated... you don't get the pay you need and these parts, 3 months... if you just come and have to work for a short time. They are not the ones involved; they are those who are going to be here for a long time. In fact, I think that the balance requested by the rapporteur is being hit here in the legislative proposal. But what is the rapporteur thinking so that we can do instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164017	The Radical Left does not completely reject this bill; we just think that the balance has been tipped off in contrast to the questioner, I have to understand. That is why we are pointing out precisely the parts for which we can vote. We are, in fact, very much in favour of them and would very much like to support them, and we have also been sitting together during the budget negotiations and talking about how to eliminate social dumping. So this is a theme that we're working together on. In this particular bill, we believe that the balance has been tipped and that the business community has not been taken into account with a business community where there are companies that are really doing their utmost to meet all kinds of requirements. They are foreign workers who come to Denmark and contribute to growth and prosperity.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164109	Mrs Velasquez does not wish to make a further comment? Then Mrs. Samira Nawa will be free of further charges. And then it's mr. Karsten Hønge from SF, who goes further in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164124	Do you know the terms: the double Polish bookkeeping or the Chinese fin? I do. This is a bit too creative and a bit too cunning traffic, where the employee is apparently paid a decent wage, but where the money marvelously evaporates as dew for the sun before they reach the employee. Money that disappears to bloated rents, but where the room is sad in a basement, in a abandoned industrial building or is an end-of-life caravan or a leaky loft room or disappears from the foreign bank account which the employee has not fully owned. There is such a need for much more and effective control and for the authorities to drop any naive idea of the icy conditions at the bottom of the labour market. Social dumping comes in many forms and yes, excuse the term "mutations," for they change constantly. We have to be over the mincing iron every time social dumping pokes out its ugly face. Hundreds of Chinese chefs apparently had to work in Denmark for monthly wages of more than DKK 35,000. 15 costs 50 bucks at Grillcorner's. And whether it is to be eaten there or taken home, it is completely inedible when it is prepared through two employees for an employee's price, when the weeks of work are over 70 hours and when the housing conditions are disgusting. Some of these so-called chefs, who are, by the way, mostly unskilled kitchen workers, are already trapped in a debt prison. They have often paid dearly at home in China to get the journey and work papers done, and then they end up as victims of greedy employers and cynical intermediaries. I wonder if Grillcorner will pay 35,000 kroner. a month for a 37-hour working week? Well, I'm just saying, at times I believe in both elves and Easter bunches, but I'm never gonna believe this story. Stop selling on the Danish labour market • Denmark's front door should not be opened to cheap foreign employees. Instead of competing to hit the bottom, we must have fair and equal conditions. We must keep our hands on the organized and regulated labour market so that workers do not end up in a competition to tighten their belts as quickly as possible, and we must keep our hands on the serious Danish companies, which can only win if the conditions are fair. And it can be done if a political majority protects conditions in the workplace, including the possibilities of a healthy and safe working environment, and if the trade union movement is strong enough to be able to enter into agreements and check that they are respected. Every day the trade union movement does a great deal of social work for decent conditions in the workplace. With this bill, the Folketing can support the work to ensure orderly conditions and fair competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164526	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge. No one has any questions or objections to Mr Seligman's report. Karsten Hønge's rapporteur's speech, so we move on to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164538	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have examined the content of the draft law, so I will not do so. Instead, I would like to welcome the fact that years of neglect are being tackled. It's pretty crazy that while we're standing here, there's still more of these holes. I hope, of course, that this will soon be a thing of the past, and I really wish that we did not need to spend so much gunpowder on control and that it was not necessary, but unfortunately this bill is very much needed. I think there are three things that we need and that we in the Enhedslist will work to get, and I also hear good ideas and bids and answers from several of the other parties, so I hope that this is something that we can work on. One part is in relation to the pay definition. I think it is important that we are keen on how the salary definition is • and not only for the person who gets the work permit, but also for the accompanying spouse. In other words, some of the experience we have, including with the legislation we have been making lately, is precisely that these are some of the best safeguards we actually have against social dumping, because we are getting the fence into what it is that you have to have in payment. That was the two things. And the third thing is that, although control here is necessary and good, I miss the fact that we are also taking some initiatives in terms of organisation and ongoing action. I think it is really, really strong that the Minister has taken steps to produce information material, or rights material, one might almost want to call it, to those who get the work permit, so that one actually gets dressed from the very beginning before one's feet hit the Danish mold, so that one gets to know what one's rights are. But I think it is important that we also have a follow-up work, and it could well be in cooperation with the professional organisations that are lifting a huge amount of work in everyday life, and several others. And this is true in relation to knowing what your rights are in relation to both rent and salary and terms of employment etc. Because although we are adopting this, I am a little concerned that, unfortunately, we do not quite avoid seeing that there are some employers who want to exploit other people in the form of social dumping. We support the bill and think it is needed. Thanks for the good work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164816	Thanks to Victoria Velasquez. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119164821	Thank you, sir. President. I think we're feeling a little bit like this bill. Left, who has expressed that there are some parts in what they are positive about. We think it is fine with the part where SIRI can go in and exercise better control over people who, among other things, are. is here on dubious or false working grounds. We would also like to ensure that there are proper working conditions. We think that is really, really fine, but as several speakers have already pointed out today, different things are mixed up. When Mr. Rasmus Stoklund from the Social Democratic Party says: "Well, this shouldn't go in to hit companies that have pure flour in the bag, but that's actually what this proposal does, among other things. in relation to the part with an account requirement it creates more bureaucracy. And if you look at what exactly you want out of it, you will see that the Danish Tax Office has said earlier in a reply to the Tax Committee that when you look at the bank account requirement, it is not something that strengthens the tax base or substantially strengthens tax control. So we simply do not understand why this part is necessary. We'd like to take a look at sharing this bill as well. We hope the Minister and a majority will support that. If that is not possible, we will see whether we can get some sense into this in relation to perhaps moving the limit from 90 days to 180, 360 days or thinking about what I think I mentioned when the Social Democrat rapporteur was on the floor, namely that there is already a system for certified companies, I think it is about 400, which often have foreign labour, that comes to Denmark on shorter contracts, and perhaps one could take them. I see no reason to be so square and to say that we are now making rules which are actually hitting companies with pure flour in the bag to use Mr. The expression of Rasmus Stoklund. So we would like to wait for this legislative proposal to be dealt with in committee before finally getting ready for whether we vote yes or no, and at least as a first step we will propose a division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165042	Thank you. So far, there are two who have volunteered. The first is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165047	Thank you. I have a specific question for the rapporteur. After all, we have seen problems with the recipient not being able to manage his own pay account himself. We have seen problems in not getting paid what is on some paper you should subsequently get paid. These are some of the problems we're trying to solve with this. The rapporteur considers this to be bureaucratic. What, then, will the rapporteur do instead of solving this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165112	Sir. Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165112-2	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, the Tax Authority itself has gone in and said that this will not increase tax control. I think that is actually very, very clear. So for me, that's not where the problem lies. The problem lies in the many examples we have, among other things. has also had in the media. It is, of course, the case that taxes are deducted from your salary before you receive it, so whether you receive it in one account or another I do not think you will make any difference. I think we should take a closer look at something, because there are good parts in this bill in relation to SIRI and increased control, and that is where we need to take action. That is what we want to support, and that is why we also want to share this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165150	Mrs. Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165152	Thank you. It is also something that we have been standing up for for a long time, so I am glad that the rapporteur will support that part. It just doesn't change the lack of opportunity to follow up on it when there isn't a Danish bank account. Does the rapporteur think it is less important, or what does the rapporteur think should be done? Is it increased tax control, which the rapporteur believes is the solution, or what is the answer from the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165220	Sir. Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165221	Now I don't want to repeat myself, but as I said, there are parts in these, among others. in relation to SIRI, which I think will solve some of the issues that are out there. But to go out and make a completely de facto, square rule, which says that for 90 days you have to have a Danish bank account, would hit many companies so badly, without it really going to solve the problem that I think the rapporteur himself would like to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165245	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165247	Now Mr. Marcus Knuth also in his speech here the challenge of creating a bank account, and has also raised it several times during the debate. I'm kind of paralyzed about what the problem is. Can the rapporteur try to make it clear to me what the problem is with creating a bank account? In other words, we are talking about professional companies to set up a bank account; what is the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165312	There was a really good example one year or two years ago. In fact, I also believe that the Minister himself was aware of this in relation to Saxo Bank, which is a good example of a Danish company that has many foreigners who come and work on contracts a few months. And the bureaucracy in getting a Danish bank account, a temporary social security number, and all of this made it so many times that they had left before these things were actually in place. And that's just unnecessary bureaucracy. That's as far as it goes. And I think neither SF nor any other party here in the Folketing has a desire for this, that is to say for unnecessary bureaucracy, and that is what we do not think we should have any more of.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165349	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165350	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth in. But it has not yet been possible at all for Mr. Marcus Knuth to make it clear to me that there is particularly much bureaucracy involved in it. If there really is a great bureaucratic burden, then let us look at it. Honestly, it's about creating a bank account. And the fact that it would even be a problem for a bank to set up a bank account simply surpasses my ability to understand it. Will Mr. Marcus Knuth try one more time just for me? How can it be a problem for a bank to set up a bank account for its employees? Well, I can go down to a bank myself and in no time set up such a bank account. And yet we are talking about a few months, and we are talking about 10,000 companies every year that are actually able to do so. Where are we here? Is that really the challenge that the Conservatives are facing for business, in other words, to create a bank account?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165430	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165431	There was a very interesting article in the Stock Exchange, in which I am at least sure the Minister was included, and where Saxo Bank was set as a very, very good example. I am sure that the rapporteur himself can find it in a short time by goingogling a little, as they say, which precisely outlines that this is a problem. When you come here as an IT programmer from the United States, for example, getting a CPR number, getting a Danish bank account is very, very difficult, and since the tax control is on the employer, and since the Tax Authority itself says that this is not something that will increase tax control, I see it as nothing but unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165508	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165511	Thank you. I'm gonna share sir. Karsten Hønges wondered, and I also think that the rapporteur makes it sound like it's a question of someone coming to do some consultancy work for 14 days, and then they have to have a bank account. That's not what this is about. You can stay in Denmark for a quarter without having a bank account with these rules. Then they say that a bank account will have to be created. I find it hard to understand that this is such an insurmountable task for companies recruiting highly specialised labour outside Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165545	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165546	But we have to lean on the authorities that are, otherwise we will grope blindly here, and when the Tax Office itself says that this bank account requirement is to a significant extent now I am quoting directly from the fact that it does not strengthen tax control, what is it supposed to do in addition to being an unnecessary burden for all the companies that, as the rapporteur himself pointed out, have pure flour in the bag and which we do not want to burden? Because that's exactly what you do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165615	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165616	If it was just Mr. Marcus Knuth, who was on the road, would not have to have speed restrictions either, because then I would have complete confidence that he would drive very safely all the time. But now it's not just Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, who travels in traffic, and therefore it is a little the same here, namely that we have to have something where we fence the conditions for these business schemes. One thing is the tax element, another thing is that if we are to be sure that it is the real wages that are paid, that is to say that you do not work in Denmark and then get paid 10,000 kr. a place in the Third World for full-time work in Denmark, it is a good assurance that you can see that the salary comes into a Danish account when you have been here for 3 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165653	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165654	First of all, thank you for your confidence in my traffic skills, and as a conservative, I am particularly pleased with that confidence. But since the reality is such and I am sorry to repeat myself that the Tax Office itself says that this bank account requirement does not substantially strengthen tax control, what is it for? What are some examples out there in the real world that will be done better by this? And then, if you put all the red tape in the bag for those who have pure flour, which the rapporteur does not want to hit, then this is just going to get awkward. And we have a first, second and third treatment for a reason, so I hope we can get this either split up or pulled out.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165733	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165734	Thank you. It's just as if there's not quite an understanding that this Danish bank account requirement puts in a leg buckle. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, if you do not have the health card that the banks would like to see in order to create a Danish bank account, it will create problems in terms of getting paid. And the health card comes with delay because there is administration • possibly several months of administration associated with it. I just want to know if the rapporteur will confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165811	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165812	I am happy to do so, and it is, after all, some of the many small bureaucratic problems that arise when you come here as a foreigner to contribute, and we want foreigners to come here and contribute. So thank you for that, and I'm glad we're not the only party that wants to share this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165828	Then we can thank Mr. Marcus Knuth and welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119165840	Thank you for the floor. New Citizens share the overall intention of this bill, namely that it should be both simple and unbureaucratic for Danish companies to get labour for Denmark, and that we should do away with cheating and cheating, but we, like several other rapporteurs who have been on the platform today, think that we are landing on the wrong side of the line that should be the right balance between the two. For us, it is absolutely crucial, when we talk about foreign policy, that we ensure that foreigners who do not create value for our society either stay out or, if they are here first, are sent out as soon as possible. Conversely, it is also important for us that the foreigners who create value for our society have good opportunities to be here and that companies, spouses and so on. We have good opportunities to bring foreigners here, if it is otherwise good foreigners who create value for our society, and here we are talking very much about foreigners who create value for our society. Then there are some who are being grossly exploited, and we must do away with that; we fully agree with that. That is why we are also supporting the part that is about control, but like other rapporteurs I believe that this is one of the few times when New Citizens agree with Radical Left in foreign policy; it is an historic day we also believe that there may be unnecessary bureaucracy for business, which is not just, as I said earlier, a closed unit, but they are all of us. It is either employers who we are, or employees who we are, or it is they who contribute to the growth and prosperity that enables the civil servants, pensioners, sick people, etc. to receive a benefit from the public authorities. Business is not an enemy. Business is the prerequisite for growth and prosperity in Denmark, and that is why we should not create unnecessary obstacles for business to do so, and we believe that this bill does. If you can get support and a majority to split up the bill, we would like to vote in favour of the first part. If you cannot do that, we will be on Conservatives' side and say that if the part that makes it unnecessarily bureaucratic can be tampered with in committee work, then we will also be there. If neither can be done, we shall vote against the proposal as it stands here. That's the attitude of the New Citizen. We are going to take a final position on the draft law, depending on how the committee's proceedings are conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170124	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170130	It's just for like trying to understand New Citizens a little bit about this, that value is being created. Then I just think that the cheaper a labour force they provide, the more cheap they work, the more businesses and businesses can earn from them, who are recruited from third countries to Denmark. And that is why, as an upper class party, one has an interest in the fact that they are not paid too well; that there is indeed the possibility that the company and business can make a little better money. But it may also be that I am wrong, i.e. that it is not there that New Citizens are standing. That is why I would just like to ask whether New Citizens support the fact that we need to clarify and tighten up the part that concerns the definition of pay? So I hope that the rapporteur will be wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170223	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170224	Now I don't know how to think like an upper class party. It must be a party like Enhedslisten, which primarily has academics and city dwellers in their hinterland. But in New Citizen we don't just think value in crowns and ears. There is also value in human value; it is also a community, and it is also a working community. So for us, it's absolutely crucial that we get rid of this bullshit, that we have reasonable, decent terms and conditions in Denmark. We support the Danish model 100% because it has just helped to ensure that you have good working conditions in Denmark, and that is worth it to us. So we are not interested in being able as a foreigner to come here and live a life in which one is grossly exploited. Nor are we interested in being able to cheat or fake the rules of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170321	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170323	That's reassuring to hear anyway. After all, the reason why I am in doubt is that you have previously voted against some of the proposals that have just been made, which were intended to ensure decent terms and conditions of employment. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur because I really did not think that there was an answer to what I was asking for to reply specifically to: do you back up the fact that we will have the part clarified and tightened up in relation to pay, pay and employment terms, or will you again vote against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170351	I think I have said quite clearly that we support the aspect of control. And that's what this is all about: even if the rules are the way they are, it's still being rigged. After all, this shows that there is a need for us to control better and more effectively. But when we sometimes vote against the proposals that come in this Chamber to interfere in the labour market, it is because we have great respect for the Danish model. We have great respect for the fact that as politicians we should not interfere in pay conditions, which are usually negotiated at least in Denmark between employers and employees. Now I do not know what the bill is to which Mrs Victoria Velasquez refers, but that is probably why, in other words, because we have a huge respect for the Danish model. I'm out of a family myself, where my father was a trade unionist. So when politicians interfere in working conditions, we're steeping.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170449	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170508	Thank you for that, President. Apparently, it's the time of confessions. Mrs Pernille Vermund is from a trade union family, and Mrs Victoria Velasquez is an academic party or whatever it was. For the record, I would like to say that I come from a radical home. My father was radical. That was when Larsen-ledet was there, but it's past in Radicals. That housekeeper's party doesn't exist anymore. I just want to hear what these are really some points in this proposal... just to understand the whole thing that New Citizens are opposed to. I have a feeling, for example. is something about the bank account, but couldn't Mrs Pernille Vermund just outline what points of this bill Mrs Pernille Vermund thinks exactly is wrong with just for my understanding?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170557	Yeah, I'd love to. This is partly the question of the bank account, but I also think there are some questions that arise about this accompanying spouse that we would like to have asked a little about in committee work. One of the problems raised in the consultation answers is that when you have large companies in those parts of Denmark where there are not many companies, in the small towns, it can be difficult to have a foreigner who comes to the country and a accompanying spouse who is not allowed to work in the same company. There we want to be sure that the large companies that we have in Denmark, who have employment on contractual terms, will not be affected by this. And there you might say that Marcus Knuth could have a part of the solution to that: could we ensure that those who are either certified or who we know live up to the conditions we set are exempted from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170655	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170657	Well, that's fine. I realized it probably had something to do with the bank account. It is then a matter of discussion when to be able to get a bank account and how quickly to get a bank account, and perhaps that speed could be speeded up a little. The second question I raised to the Minister was that of the accompanying spouse, because it is very unclear what working conditions are, what wage conditions are and what they really should have. Because they don't come under the payroll, they're just in, and then they can go to work in another company. But what are the rules that apply to them? That is what I asked the Minister to explain, that is to say what they are covered by. So there I am in agreement with Mrs Pernille Vermund that there is, as it were, one, what to say, black point: it is rather unclear what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170743	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170744	In other words, what we want to ensure is that you can come here with a work permit, have your spouse and perhaps children, and that during the period you are here, the spouse may choose to go home and have no work, or, if you are in a small town, that both parties can get jobs in the same company. We will not, of course, accept that we are fucking with things that we have seen in these situations with Chinese chefs, but that we find the balance where we do not hit the wrong ones and where the damage we do to good businesses will not be greater than the benefit we get from hitting those we actually want to hit. That's our balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170828	We thank Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then I shall give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119170838	Thank you for a good debate on the bill. When companies in Denmark bring labour to the country, it must, of course, be done on proper pay and working conditions similar to what is normal here in Denmark, because cheating undermines the common rules of the labour market, and it gives itself that it is unacceptable, and I am glad to hear that there is broad support about that too. After all, it is not fair to all those employers who can find a way of complying with the rules, and the employees who do their job, that someone is trying to cheat. At the end of last year, cases were brought up in the media with examples of foreigners and of companies that cheat and bypass the rules we have in foreign law, for example. The catering industry, where there were many who worked for a very low salary, or spouses who worked two for one's price. We have since strengthened control, but unfortunately the examples suggest that some will go a long way to cheat on the rules. That is why we need more tools to assess applications and carry out ex post controls, because although some of the authorities have done so within the current rules, there is clearly a need for more with the stories we have seen. Therefore, with this bill, the government is proposing a series of measures to strengthen the control of foreign labour and the companies employing foreign labour. Firstly, we propose that foreigners who come to Denmark under one of the occupational schemes should have their salary paid in a Danish bank account and that only the salary paid to the account can be counted on when assessing whether an employment takes place under normal pay and employment conditions. This means that you cannot count on board, lodging, diets, free telephony or other services. This is an important element in checking that foreign workers are not employed on paper for a salary similar to that of Danish workers, but in fact end up being much cheaper labour, or that a large part of the wage is made up of benefits of which it is harder to assess the value and which push the wage level for Danish employees, who may not normally be paid with such benefits. In addition, we will make it easier to refuse an application for a work permit if there is a presumption that the actual employment relationship does not correspond to what is stated in the application or that the purpose is to obtain a residence permit which the alien would otherwise not be able to obtain. An application may now be refused if it is found, on a case-by-case basis, that there are specific reasons for believing that the employment offer on which the application is based is not real or that it can be shown in concrete terms that it is pro forma. Unfortunately, however, we have seen that in certain areas there is a risk of circumventing the rules, where the papers appear to be in order, but where the foreigner has not worked in accordance with the application, and we therefore propose that there should no longer be a requirement that certain reasons should be put forward to assume that the employment offer on which the application is based is not real, but that it is sufficient that there is a certain presumption of this. It could, for example, be done. If the company has previously employed foreign labour without the necessary authorisation, or if the wage offered to the worker is, for example: more than 20%. above the median wage for the specific industry, but just above the limit of the amount scheme and this is not justified by the worker's specific qualifications. Then a bell can be dialed, and the amount mechanism can only be used in exceptional cases for posts which are not normally high-paid. Similarly, we will introduce a presumption refusal in the field of internship to ensure that the scheme is used for a real educational purpose and is not abused for social dumping or for easier access to the Danish labour market. We must also prevent underpayment of spouses from the same employer from being part of an informal employment agreement. It should not be possible for a company to bring married couples here, who then work two for the same price, as examples have also been mentioned in e.g. The catering industry, that is, only one person is paid for working in the kitchen, although both actually work for the company and perhaps the other in the dishes. This is totally unacceptable in a Danish labour market. Therefore, we now propose that spouses or other accompanying family members of a foreign worker should have a separate work permit requiring them to work on the usual Danish terms and conditions of employment if they want to work for the same employer or for a company with a close connection with the main person's employer. A close connection can, for example: be in the case of the same physical place of work or where there is a coincidence in the ownership or management of the undertakings. If it is exceeded more than once, the main person's residence permit may be withdrawn according to the new rule, and they must both leave the country. The draft law also provides a legal basis for the Board to carry out independent checks at work in order to ascertain for themselves whether the conditions for foreign workers comply with the conditions laid down in their work permit. In addition, we will allow the board to instruct companies to keep a log of the employees' work and to draw information about crew members on Danish cargo ships in international traffic, and then we will place control attachés on Danish representations abroad, so that control is strengthened already during the application period. We are therefore putting in place new specific rules and we are giving the board a better opportunity to carry out the necessary checks. I am aware that this bill can, of course, give rise to discussion on one element and the other, and we have heard that today. Some believe that we should go even further in the fight against social dumping, while others believe that we are tightening the screw equally well for Danish companies who are just trying to get their daily operations to run with the labour they now need. We have a lot of companies that each day contribute to the Danish economy and to the Danish well-being, not least because of highly trained and qualified labour that they can retrieve abroad, when it cannot be found sufficiently at home, and I would like to stress that in the vast majority of cases it is done completely in accordance with the rules. But there are stingy vessels in between that cheat and that do not want to follow the common rules of the game, and they are the ones that we will try to tighten up with this bill. I think we owe this to the labour market, to companies and to employees who comply with the rules, and this is precisely about establishing the right balance between the two considerations of simultaneously guaranteeing the ability of Danish companies to recruit the necessary labour force and to protect the Danish labour market from social dumping. It is an exercise to find such a balance, and I also think that it has already been shown up to the first reading that there may be a need to adjust the draft law on the requirement for a Danish bank account. I am, for example. have been informed that agricultural practitioners should also be subject to the requirement for a Danish bank account in order to ensure that the internship scheme is used for a real educational purpose and is not abused. I have listened to that, and I agree with it. I am therefore looking at whether an amendment can be tabled so that agricultural practitioners are also included in the demand. On the other hand, I have also been pointed out that this could constitute a special barrier to, for example, the environment. people who are in Denmark on the positive list for a shorter period, that their salary should be paid to a Danish bank account. It can, for example, be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on some of the groups that I can hear from some of the rapporteurs here on the platform, in other words that in some cases this may be a problem in relation to, for example, the European Parliament. their family in their country of origin, if the employment is formally to be moved to Denmark for a period of time. Although I believe that it is the right starting point that the salary should be paid to a Danish bank account, nor should we make it so difficult that the highly qualified workforce, which Danish companies have a great need for, chooses Denmark from when it comes to a shorter stay. I have therefore asked my officials also to look at the possibility of a possible amendment which excludes highly qualified and attractive labour from the requirement that wages should be paid to a Danish bank account if they are in Denmark for up to 1⁄2 years instead of the 3 months proposed in the bill. This will apply only to the system known as the positive list, and not to the new skilled employment list, but only to the old one for people with higher education. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. I look forward to the further examination of the bill in the Folketing, and we are, of course, as always ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171655	Thank you. There are two who have signed in, and the first is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171700	Thank you. As I understood it, the bleeding that the Minister brought here, which moved from three to six months, at least as I understood it, is something that we think is positive. But that does not change our overall concern about the bureaucracy that exists, with the demand for a bank account that we do not feel is something that will strengthen tax control. Will the Minister support us in sharing the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171726	I would like to start by saying that we have had a demand for Danish bank account on the amount scheme and on the amount track on the fasttrack scheme for some years now, and it actually works quite well. Now we are extending it to all the business arrangements and with an amendment also to the internship arrangements. What I see as a small challenge is that there are some Danish companies, and we have also been in dialogue with some of those who have employees in very many countries all over the world and who have a wish that they can come to Denmark for a few months, 3-4 months perhaps, and be here and could continue to get paid in the country of origin. If it can be limited to people with special qualifications on the positive list, I think we can make those companies happy without undermining what is the starting point of the legislative proposal. On the question of whether I am prepared to share the bill, which I can also hear there are ideas from both Radical, Left and New Citizens: yes, of course, if it can provide broader support for some parts of the bill, I think that would be sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171833	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Marcus Knuth the word? No. Then I shall give the floor to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171839	Thank you. And thank you for a bill that in many ways hits the head on the nail, and for the cooperation in general in this area and quickly work despite leave and such things. Thank you. In fact, I believe that the presumption can become one of the most effective measures and provide a protection against some of the most serious abusers. However, I would like to ask about two other parts which I think are very important. One is the definition of pay, i.e. whether the Minister will be open to making sure that we look at the overall cost level of the existing agreements from the most representative social partners across the country, in other words that we will actually get that part clarified. Whether it stays in the remarks or in the law, I'm open to it. That is the one part I want to hear whether the Minister will be open to look at. The second part is in relation to the accompanying spouse. Could you do something that might be smarter than the work permit? Could we ensure that there is also a sharp wording in relation to the salary definition?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119171954	Thank you for the kind words, I'll start by saying. As far as wages are concerned, it is true, as I heard the rapporteur mention earlier in the debate, that the law on goods transport refers to a specific agreement. What is the challenge in the field of foreigners is that people can in principle get any job in Denmark, and then it is a three-digit number of agreements that the board will then have to assess, i.e. what the most representative agreement is for this specific piece of work for which a residence permit is now to be written. I think this is going to be unnecessarily bureaucratic, especially because I actually have a view that the existing model works well, namely that the board is looking at whether we have had similar cases in the past that we can lean on, and if we do not have, we can ask what is called the Regional Labour Councils, where both the trade union movement and the employers' associations are, and then we can hear what they will assess is the normal level of pay. I actually have the impression that it is working quite well. Then there's the thing about the accompanying spouse that I didn't reach, but I might be able to answer that in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172057	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172058	Thank you. One of the things that may be the problem is that we only now see it is so concrete in the driver area that corona has caused some problems in relation to income groups and the income that different professions will get. So it is also some way to try to make sure that it is secured, where you look to a place that has a reasonable level of pay and employment, and then you put it there. I think it is important that you land in a good balance so that it does not become bureaucratic, but that we get it right on the other hand, so that it will not indirectly be social dumping. I think it could be one of the best protections if we were sharp on the pay definition. The same is true in relation to the accompanying spouse, that is, that one can be flexible, in relation to how many hours and all such things he or she works, but that one then sharpens the definition of pay. The Minister does not need to make a black and white formulation now, but just indicate whether the Minister is open to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172202	Then I shall try to avoid making a black and white formulation, but just outline some of the principles for it. If I had to work abroad, it would mean something to me that I could bring my spouse with me. That is how foreigners must feel when they come to Denmark. Today the rules are so that if one side, for example. the woman, has got a job in Denmark that complies with the payment scheme, she can get the husband with, and the man gets a work permit. There are actually no very strict rules attached to his work permit, and when we process his residence and work permit, it is under the category "supplied'. There are no specific requirements for his work. If there are to be specific requirements for his work, for example. on terms and conditions of employment, they must be eligible for treatment when entering. That is what brings the challenges with some of the wishes I can hear there are from Enhedslisten's side. I have tried to answer some of that in writing, but I am very happy to elaborate on it, also orally, because it is a little preoccupied, and I also had to get around it a few times before it really made sense to myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172301	Thank you to the Minister. No one else has signed up on this item. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172323	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172350	Thank you, President. Many young people from Argentina and Chile have come to Denmark on the Working Holiday scheme in recent years. Often they have been employed by app-based companies; companies with a business model where people associated with companies are self-employed, but on loose and precarious contracts. At the same time, young people themselves have had a responsibility to report their income to tax, and many of them have become in practice a kind of digital day owners. That is to say, no pay during illness, no pension or other rights, as when you are employed on a contract. In the press there are a number of young people from these countries who have expressed wonder that we are now going to tighten up the Working Holiday scheme. And the brief answer to why we want it is that the Working Holiday scheme is not a business scheme. The purpose of the scheme is not that young people from Argentina and Chile and other countries can come to Denmark for the primary purpose of working, the purpose of the Working Holiday scheme is that young people get an opportunity to get to know Denmark and Danish culture, get a good experience and get the opportunity to finance their stay by working along the way. However, among others, 3F expressed concern that the scheme has actually acted as an import of cheap labour from the Third World to the detriment of wage and working conditions in particular. The hotel and catering business and the cleaning business, and we can't live with that. The bill therefore introduces a fee for applications which can be reimbursed if your application is rejected, and then a change in practice will be made, so that people in the Working Holiday scheme can only do wage work in Denmark so that they can no longer be self-employed. In the future, the foreign authorities will also inform young people in the Working Holiday scheme about Danish pay and working conditions, and finally, the bill introduces a quota on the number of residence permits for young people from Argentina and Chile respectively. All in all, we think this is a good bill. It protects the conditions of the Danish labour market, and the Social Democratic Party therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172602	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172607	Thank you. After all, this is a bill and an agreement, which, when you read the agreement, cannot fail to do so especially when you have been living as a self-employed person for many years to get a little smile on your lips, because the parties to the agreement write something about the fact that it is not appropriate for these foreigners to be self-employed. And you have to be very collectivistic to think about it. In other words, it is social-democratic politics, including DF policy, which extends beyond a labour market which, of course, contains many people, employers and employees, but which is also largely driven by the fact that some people are taking the leap and are self-employed. Can the rapporteur confirm that the agreement on which this bill is based states that it is not appropriate for these young people to live as self-employed people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172705	But here it is quite crucial that you get the background, because there is no one who can disagree with the fact that it is of course very good that there are people in Denmark who are self-employed and also that there are foreigners who establish companies that there are people who are either self-employed or entrepreneurs, are only positive. But what is the problem here is when you become such a pro forma independent. The first time I heard about it was a number of years ago, when the abattoirs in, among others. Northern Germany saw a development in which agreements and collective agreements were terminated with the slaughterhouse workers, and then they were told: In future you will be allowed to become self-employed, and then you will become directors of your own business, and that is the way we have a contract with you. And it was perhaps very good in the first year, but the following year, when they had to renegotiate the contract and there were 300 independent slaughterhouse workers and had to negotiate a contract, it was harder than when they had been able to do it the year before 300 collective organized. I am not sure about the exact figure, but I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund understands my picture with it. And that is what we are talking about here, and that is why we are talking about self-employed people because they are pro forma autonomy and not really self-employed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172815	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172816	But that's where we just have a vertical disagreement. They are not pro forma self-employed; they are really self-employed when you are self-employed, where you take responsibility yourself for the fact that if you get sick you must have some money set aside for it; if you are going on maternity leave, you must also make sure that you have put money aside there, etc. So I would just like to ask once again: is this not because you want more people to be employees and fewer people to be self-employed, who offer in with the spirit of enterprise and initiative that lies in being self-employed and taking responsibility for themselves and also for their own economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172902	No, I think it is only good if people want to be self-employed, but now it is just a slightly different situation where being self-employed is used de facto to outlaw the Danish labour market. In other words, you enter the Danish labour market under conditions that no Dane can or must not survive on, and then you subjugate the Danish labour market and push the Danish labour market, for example. Danes in the service sector out of the labour market because you get some slave-like wages, no pension, no vacation, no rights during illness etc. And that's why this isn't a fight at all against the self-employed. It's a fight against calling social dumping independence if you're going to use a different term.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172947	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119172949	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, if he cannot confirm that Working Holiday is intended for young people who go out and experience the world, is culturally enriched and experiences another country and can take a job for their entertainment while they are in that country, and it can be changing places of work. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund does not confirm that this is what it is meant for and that it has never ever been intended for Working Holiday to employ self-employed people, because then they will have to come under some other conditions? Can he confirm that this is the intention of Working Holiday, and not that people should come in and work in the same place all year round, but that it is for young people who travel around perhaps the whole world and then maybe in Denmark for 2,3 or 4 months, cross-country throughout Denmark to experience Denmark, and then can take work along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173038	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173039	Thank you. Well, I guess that's very much in agreement with sir. Bent Bøgsted in: that this is exactly what has been at the heart of this, and indeed what I think has been the sympathetic thing about this arrangement, that is to say that some young people from some countries, where you might not otherwise have been able to afford to come out and see the world, will have the opportunity to do so in this way, i.e. by paying for your entertainment by working along the way while you are out and having an experience. But it has never been the intention that it should be an occupational scheme which Danish employers would use to import cheap and enormously underpaid labour and then even be so clever that people should be self-employed, so they were offered conditions which do not belong on the Danish labour market. So, yes, I fully agree with Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted's assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173137	Thank you for the floor. The proposal we are discussing today is the implementation of an agreement between the government, SF, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, which has agreed to tighten the so-called working holiday scheme. Specifically, the government will introduce a ceiling on the number of applicants from Argentina and Chile of 150 residence permits per year per year. country. In addition, a fee of DKK 2,000 will be introduced. to seek to become part of the system at all, no matter where you come from. The Left is not included in that agreement, and there is a good reason for this: we believe that the current system is working very well. The scheme today contributes to the fact that as a young person you can travel to Denmark and work for one year, as well as many Danes travel abroad and work there. It is a scheme that gives diligent and hardworking young people the opportunity to experience Denmark and Danish culture, and Danish culture also exists on the Danish labour market. It is actually a unique place for Danish culture. Foreign labour creates a great value for Denmark, and the companies in Denmark are also so entrepreneurial that some have seen a business model in this. We're fine with that. I am pleased to see that especially many people from Chile and Argentina want to go to Denmark and work. This is not something in which we can see any problems at all. These are numbers we're proud of. With this bill, thousands of young people are deprived of an opportunity to go on cultural exchanges in Denmark, young people with good intentions to work, contribute and experience Danish society, both in the labour market and outside it. It seems very strange and as an expression of mistrust by the trade union movement that we are now going through this. This is an unjustified concern, which the Minister has unfortunately listened to, and now it is going to affect peaceful and hard-working people. In the Left, of course, we expect the system to take place in order and we do not suspect that it will not. Should the opposite be the case, we would, of course, like to look at it; then we should have some empiri for it. Conversely, most Danes have probably become acquainted with the massive problems caused by non-Western immigration, both culturally and economically. Therefore, the government should focus primarily on this group and work to limit the influx to Denmark not for peaceful and industrious Japanese, Australians and Argentines who come to Denmark for a year and who, moreover, contribute to the Danish Treasury while they are here. I would like to make it clear that the Left believes that the working holiday scheme is a very good scheme that not only contributes to labour in Denmark but also provides young people from other parts of the world with cultural insight into Danish society. It's good for everyone. We think that is an important point. For this reason, the Left cannot vote in favour of the motion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173436	Thank you for that, President. The Working Holiday Scheme is a good arrangement if it is used properly. If it is used in the right way, it is actually a good arrangement where young people can travel around the world and work their way forward and get some experiences and learn about what is happening around the world. Many Danes do. This has nothing to do with it at all, but we have been able to see that there has been an increase in the number, especially from Argentina and Chile, where there are some people who are communicating labour to Denmark. We have seen an increase since 2015, when 827 permits were granted, and in 2019 it was about 3,500 permits. 86% of them are from Chile and Argentina. Many of those who drive around as pizza messengers are under the working holiday scheme. They work as self-employed. They're getting paid. It is only done once the year has passed, and it is only there that the tax administration makes it all up, and then they are out of Denmark again. This means that many of them work without paying tax in Denmark, because when they are self-employed, it is not the case that there is current taxation. It's something they have to make up. But it is not and it has never been intended that working holiday should be used to get labour to Denmark, where they work as self-employed, whether you think it is for the benefit of Denmark or not. It is also of no benefit to Denmark if they do not have arranged conditions and pay taxes in Denmark. We do not like this system in the Danish People's Party. We think it is quite okay that they come to Denmark and take jobs and that they are driving around, but they are not supposed to be self-employed. Because it is not intended for them to have a cultural experience if they work as self-employed; it is not. That's not what they do. Then they work for a company where they might be carrying packing mail or driving as pizza messengers, or whatever. That is why we think it is quite right to limit the number of people who come to Denmark from Argentina and Chile, where there has been a great deal of abuse. There will then be a quota of 150 a year. It is also quite right that you should pay a fee for the administrative cost of coming to Denmark. We would actually like it to come in other areas where foreign labour comes to Denmark under the RUT register and that you pay the cost fee for the administration there is. Strangely enough, the government has rejected that in that case. It may be because many of them are from the European Union... I do not know if the Minister is listening. Otherwise, I can have a break in my speech. Can I do that, President?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173734	No, but the Minister has a duty to listen to what is going on in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173738	I'm taking a break until the minister is ready to listen... it looks like the minister is now. It's really a shame to stand up here on the platform and talk to the Minister if there's no hearing. It's a pain in the ass in North Jutland. But this is about the fee that has been put on here for administrative costs. We in the Danish People's Party would like to see this in other areas. We have proposed that it should come on foreign labour when they come under the RUT register, but the government has rejected that, because it could not, and EU rules were referred to. These are not EU countries. However, I think we could look at introducing a fee in other areas as well. The Foreign Minister may have an influence on this matter. As the proposal is, we in the Danish People's Party think it is quite all right. We have also been involved in negotiating it ourselves, and it has also been done in such a way that it has been removed with the self-employed. No new ones have come this year because of corona, which is why it's hard to see how it's going to work, but when the corona crisis is over, you start fresh with working holiday. I assume that those who had come here for New Year last year will be coming out of Denmark in January. It's only 1 year they can be here. Then I guess there's no more self-employed people driving around during working holiday, since it's shut down all year. But we'll have to look at that when it comes. As I said, we are very pleased with the proposal here and with the fact that we are slowing down the abuse of working holiday as there has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173939	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119173942	Thank you. I simply think it is so strange, and I feel that I am particularly affected as a self-employed person, but it is so strange for me to hear that you have a rapporteur from a nominally bourgeois party who says that it is okay for them to come and work, but not as an independent party. They must come and feel our culture and get to know our culture, but they must not be independent. So, have we really got to where being self-employed is not part of the Danish culture, where taking responsibility for oneself, for one's working life and for one's economy is not part of the Danish culture? It is sad that there is a nominally bourgeois party standing on the platform today saying that being independent is something that we must overcome among these people. We are talking about people coming from Chile and Argentina. We are not talking about people coming from the Middle East with totalitarian ideologies. We are talking about people who come for a short period, who support themselves and who comply with our legislation. But the fact that they are said to be self-employed does seem strange to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174049	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174051	Well, that's because Mrs Pernille Vermund hasn't gotten into what the Working Holiday Act is all about. I just have to make that clear. It is clear what Working Holiday is all about: that you can come to a country and work your way to subsistence while you are there. It doesn't say a word about having to settle as a self-employed person. I have no objection to Argentines and Chileans coming to Denmark and becoming self-employed, but they are not going under the Working Holiday scheme. Then they can enter in all sorts of other ways, but not under the Working Holiday scheme. I would ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to understand what Working Holiday is before starting to accuse the Danish People's Party that we have something against the self-employed. We certainly haven't. We warmly support the need for self-employed people to have good conditions and to be able to cope, but it should not be the case that you have a system called Working Holiday, where it is young people who have to travel and experience countries and work their way forward, and that it should then be used to get in and have a year as a self-employed person. That is not the point of that arrangement, and that is just what I am saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174155	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174159	There is a conflict here between working and being self-employed, and when you look at the figures, including for Danes, self-employed, some of those who work the most for many are extremely low wages, because you work a certain part of your body out of your pants for something you believe in, something you put some energy into, something you're passionate about. Many of these young people come from nations where it is quite natural to be independent, where initiative and enterprise are still working. That is some of what we are about to strike down in Denmark, and we are, because so-called bourgeois parties think that being independent is something to do with.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174238	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174239	It's a claim that's a little out of control. We have nothing against the self-employed in the Danish People's Party, absolutely not. We want people to become self-employed. But Mrs Pernille Vermund must stick to what the law is and what Working Holiday is. It is an exchange system where you can travel around the world and then you can take work and work your way forward to experience the country you come to. It is not a system where the intention is to go to a country and become self-employed. Then you can come to Denmark in many other ways, but not under Working Holiday. And it may be that it brings out the smile of Mrs Pernille Vermund, but that is because Mrs Pernille Vermund has not understood what Working Holiday is.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174319	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174324	Thank you, President. When dealing with the previous item, Mrs Pernille Vermund mentioned that it was a historic day, because the New Civil and Radical Left was in agreement and saw even something in the field of foreigners. I can see that the historic day is becoming even more historic when it comes to dealing with this bill. After all, Denmark has an agreement with seven countries, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea, on Working Holiday. This means that young people from these countries will have the opportunity to enter Denmark and learn something about culture and about the Danish way of life. And to experience a country with its culture is therefore in a Danish context also to experience the Danish labour market. But this bill will introduce fees for these young people entering Denmark and a ceiling on the number of residence permits for people from Argentina and Chile. With the bill young people from these countries get much more difficult to experience in Danish society and the labour market. I and the Radical Left see this as an expression of scepticism towards foreign labour and, as I mentioned in my speech on the previous item on the agenda, there is therefore nothing to be afraid of by foreign labour. This is not a zero sum game, it is a plus sum game. The Radical Left thinks that the Working Holiday scheme is really fine as it is today, and it is also very good for the Danes who go abroad and experience some of the culture in other countries and learn about their labour markets. So the Radical Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174516	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174521	Working Holiday it really sounds great, because it is an ingenious composition of words, where you kind of notice the last half, namely Holiday. And it can also be a great opportunity for young people with little money to get out and experience the world. In a tight budget, some young people may have the opportunity to travel and finance it through work in the host country. But at the same time, unfortunately, the reality is far from always the case where it is about the last half of the word, as I mentioned before, but probably more with pressure on the first half, namely Working, where many end up completely without basic rights such as pay under illness, pension or a healthy and safe working environment. Working Holiday is not the only English words in this debate, and many young people end up in the class of working poor. And they can become pieces of social dumping that push conditions on the labour market. The distance between Working Holiday and working poor has often been very short, and for some young people it has been just two sides of the same coin. Being young and foreigner can be a toxic cocktail at the bottom of the labour market. It is a good thing that we have already corrected the scheme so that it is now only true wage work. The business of being so-called self-employed, we could see mostly as an employee of the company a/s fraud and fraud. Fortunately, we have put a plug in that gap with fake self-employed people earlier this year. The former bourgeois government condoned the exploitation of young people from Chile and Argentina in particular, often as bicycle messengers at Wolt. And it has to be said that the appetite for cheap take away could only be matched by the appetite for cheap labor. But it's an uneatable menu. Others joined as cleaning workers under the Happy Helper app again a fantastic exciting English composition of words. I wonder how many people have been so cheerful to be allowed to work underneath it. Now we have to correct the law in two other areas. And the explanatory statement can actually be found in a study which has been carried out by some of the young people who were here under the Working Holiday scheme and one of the sentences in the conclusion was: It is easier and cheaper to apply in Denmark than in the other Working Holiday countries. It is actually very good as the conclusion of the study among the young people who were here. But if a young person in South America wants to work in Denmark, it must be a positive choice of Denmark, and not just because it is easier and cheaper. That is why it is only fair with quotas and a fee, so you can compare Denmark with other Working Holiday countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174858	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119174913	Thank you, President. Now we are at one more of the proposals to ensure that people are not used to create social dumping. And in this case we have seen too many examples of special young people being offered conditions as day owners in areas where you normally have rights such as pensions and other measures. Therefore, I would actually say that I am glad that with this scheme right now we are trying to see if we can work it right together so that we do not have to close it, but instead see if we can close the holes that make the scheme have been used to make arms and leg companies so that it is really good. This part can't be left alone. I have also been in dialogue with several of the young people who have taken advantage of the scheme. And unfortunately we also see that there are some other places where there are some challenges. It can, for example, be done. be associated with protective equipment, if you bring food out, and other things that are particularly important here during the coronatids. And that is something we have raised with both this minister, but also with the Minister for Employment, where I think there was a good sensitivity to it. In any case, we will follow up on this, so that, in terms of both pay and working conditions, we ensure the best possible conditions in the framework that exists, but also in relation to the working environment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175039	Thank you to the rapporteur. And that means that we are now moving on to Mr. Marcus Knuth it, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175052	Thank you, sir. President. After all, we Conservatives think that it is rather hollow that the government wants to increase the benefits for refugees coming here from Syria and Iraq and Somalia, which are high in crime statistics, is high in unemployment statistics, while at the same time it says that it wants to restrict their access to our country to skilled young people from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. In other words, it is skilled young people who are in demand from our companies, who contribute and who also bring some cultural exchange. Well, I find it hard to see why you open one gate and close the other. This goes directly against the immigration policy which I myself think the government is trying to set out. We Conservatives feel the same way about people who come here from cultures where they contribute both culturally and economically that it is really positive. And I think the only argument I really heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur, who is not here right now, was that 3F does not think this is a good idea. And I think that's a rather thin argument, is it 3F that governs government policy, or is it the government itself? In any case, we Conservatives cannot vote in favour of this bill, which we think is wrong in a great many different ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yeah, somebody came in. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175236	I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth, if it does not seem striking to the rapporteur that there is an explosive development in how many young people are seeking exactly from Argentina and Chile. Does the rapporteur not look at reality out there and look at what they are doing in Denmark? These are these low-wage jobs, and so there is clearly an industry right behind it, where you might sell, where you finance, and where you make a channel into Denmark from Chile and Argentina. It's exactly these two countries that are going on, and they're going to end up exactly in these totally lousy low-wage jobs. It's just reality. There isn't much cultural exchange in it. Or does Mr. Marcus Knuth really is that it is because you sit over in Argentina or Chile and think: Hey, I want to start as an independent person in Denmark and be there for a year and exchange culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175324	The rapporteur makes it sound like there is something wrong with people from Chile and Argentina. Chile and Argentina are therefore countries which share our Christian culture far along the way. It is young people who come here to contribute to taking jobs that some Danes may not want to take. Then I think we should focus more on how we can get more Danes into work, how we can get people parked on high social benefits in order to take those jobs, instead of just saying: You from Chile and Argentina we don't want. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175355	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175356	No, and sir knows that. Marcus Knuth also quite well that I do not mean. I have nothing against people from Argentina or Chile, of course not. It is just something that I would ask the rapporteur to relate to the reality out there, that there is clearly an industry behind here, just to send cheap labour to Denmark. And the study done among these young people also shows why they choose it, and that's because it's easy and cheap. That's only why, that's why you're elected, and it's so clear that they end up in these low-wage jobs in Denmark and some of them until we put the cork in, also as fake self-employed. Well, it's kind of like with au pair: the thought is very good, but then it just ends sometimes in some areas where it goes all the way to the side.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175434	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175435	But foreigners who come here to contribute simply see us as something positive. After all, the ever-great debate we have here in this Parliament is about foreigners who come here so as not to contribute or not to contribute and so, young people who come here from here now mention Chile and Argentina, which are two of the countries from which there are many people from this scheme, of course. After all, they do not subscribe to crime statistics. It is young people who come with a culture similar to ours and who may also be able to contribute both in terms of language and with experience from their home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175517	Thank you. It is indeed a strange day, and it is indeed a strange bill based on a strange contractual basis, an agreement that states that it is not appropriate for the young people who come from seven countries: Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea to live here on these Working Holiday schemes as independent entrepreneurs. We are therefore talking about a system where the intention is that young people should be able to come here, have a short stay, almost as a holiday stay, but must be able to work at the same time, must be able to learn about Danish culture and Danish way of life, and then they say that it is not part of Danish culture and way of life to be independent, so they should certainly not learn anything about that. This is not said directly, but it is said indirectly because it is not appropriate for young people who come on this scheme, which aims to get to know Danish culture and Danish way of life, to become self-employed. It's really, really bizarre, and somewhere it's a little sad too. For what is happening to our culture if being self-employed and being self-employed are regarded as bogus or as something in which others are undercut? Are we now so few people who are or who have tried to feed us as self-employed that one does not understand widely in the population and in the Folketing that yes, there are very, very many days, when one as a self-employed has to turn every penny, and that that is the conditions? On the other hand, you have the freedom to manage your own life and manage your own economy, and for some it will also be the way to the dream job or the dream business that can create new opportunities both for yourself and also for those you may one day be able to hire. I think that on many points this bill is an expression of a move in our society in a direction that I am sorry, and you can see it as a small detail, or that it is just a small area, but I think it says something about where we are going. I think it says something about how an alien policy, which should be about ensuring that foreigners who create value for our society are welcome and that those who do not do should stay away, has become a policy of aliens, mixing it all together in one light bulb and not really finding respect for some of the things that we live on in Denmark, not just when we live on public pay or on public support, but also when we are going to be employed in companies and other things, are ideas, and that is talent, and it is worthwhile. So the whole intention, the whole mindset and the mindset behind this bill, which lies in the agreement that is behind this bill, is so far from what I see as Denmark that I cannot imagine at all that with any changes we could back the proposal, and the mere fact that you see people from Chile and Argentina as someone who is problematic for our society when they support themselves and, by the way, go back home when they are done here, is completely bizarre for me. So in those words, we say no, thank you. New citizens are clearly opposed to the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175906	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we are now going to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119175920	Thank you for the floor. I shall of course begin by regretting to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that I was not aware earlier in the rapporteur's speech. I would also like to thank you for a good debate, I think, on the legislative proposal. The use of this scheme, the Working Holiday scheme, has increased quite significantly in recent years, so significantly that the number of residence permits issued was actually quadrupled from 2015 to 2019. This development can be attributed to the fact that several young people from Argentina and Chile in particular have made use of the scheme. The purpose of the scheme is to give young people the opportunity to get to know the culture of the other country. With a permit, you get the opportunity to stay for up to 1 year in Denmark, where you can get to know the country and our culture. You are also allowed to work for part of the duration of your stay in order to support your stay financially. The main purpose of the stay must therefore be to take a holiday and any work must be secondary. It is a very special arrangement in which, under relatively relaxed conditions, you can come to Denmark while you are young and have an experience for life. It is therefore important for the government that the use of the scheme works properly and is used for what it is intended for, namely cultural exchange. The government, the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and SF reached an agreement last December on a number of initiatives to counter the marked increase we see in the area. The agreement contained four initiatives. Firstly, the introduction of a fee for applications, and that is what we are dealing with with with this bill. Secondly, a change in practice so that it is only allowed to do wage work in Denmark, and not as in the past, where, for example, it is allowed to do wage work in Denmark. was possible to work freelance. This change in practice has been introduced before the summer holidays. Thirdly, the immigration authorities must provide information on the conditions of the Danish labour market in connection with the sending of residence permit letters. It's in progress, too. Fourthly, the introduction of a quota for the number of permits granted to nationals of Argentina and Chile. That dialogue is under way with Argentina and Chile, but it is also part of the legislative proposal we are discussing today. The initiatives already implemented or put into effect are running as planned. Negotiations have therefore been initiated with Argentina and Chile on the introduction of a quota. The bill provides for the introduction of a fee on applications for residence permits under the Working Holiday scheme. This is not unusual in the field of occupational schemes or residence permits, moreover, in the field of foreigners, and it is also being introduced here. In addition, it is proposed to allow the immigration authorities to reject applications submitted after a quota has been used. Finally, it is intended to give the authorities the power to repay the fee for applications rejected because a quota has been used. Finally, I would like to point out that the Working Holiday scheme is currently in place. suspended on the basis of the situation of covid-19. It is therefore not a worthy purpose to come to Denmark on the Working Holiday scheme. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate and I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180233	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180237	Thank you. With regard to the foreigners who have come from Chile and Argentina and who are now going to be restricted in relation to this Working Holiday scheme, are the foreigners with whom the Minister has experience lies in the public domain or commits crime while they are here?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180254	I have no statistics on whether they commit crime, but I would be surprised if they were massively over-represented in crime statistics. That has not been the basis for introducing it here either. This is in order to protect the part of the labour market that we assessed was under pressure on the basis of a use of the scheme which did not work as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180319	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180320	When I ask, it is because the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration maintains a foreign policy which means that people will continue to come here from countries where we know we have problems. These are people who are both in the public interest and who commit crime when they are here and who are not deported when they behave like this. You do not want to restrict them, yes, you may want to do so, but you do not do it, you do not do it de facto. On the other hand, benefits are increased for those people while they are in the country and are on public support. Can the Minister not see that there is something bizarre about keeping out those who support themselves and comply with our legislation, but that people are attracted and even rewarded financially when they are in the opposite group?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180405	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180407	I would like to start by saying that we have the lowest asylum rates in Denmark for several decades. So it does not come across borders with asylum seekers. And we have changed the expulsion rules in Denmark so that people must be expelled, unless it is certainly contrary to international conventions. It has a low-practical significance. In fact, it means that there are people being put on the plane who would not otherwise be put on the plane. That policy should not prevent us from at the same time protecting the Danish labour market from, I think, the abuse of some rules in the Aliens Act, which aims to ensure cultural exchange, but which was de facto used for something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180445	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180446	Thank you, Minister. Basically, I just don't understand this thinking. On the one hand, the Minister will provide higher benefits to refugees from Syria or from Iraq or Somalia; on the other hand, he will even make it easier for refugees to stay in Denmark, even if there is peace in the country of origin; on the other hand, this bill will make it more difficult for young people who want to contribute to Danish society and who come from Australia, Chile, Argentina. Can the Minister at all explain to me the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180530	Well, I think there's a good logic in us having Working Holiday schemes. These are bilateral agreements between two different countries. So we, the Danish Government, have an agreement with the Argentine Government, just as we have with the governments of New Zealand and Japan and Chile. These agreements are a little different, but they ensure that Danes can come out and come on holiday and work next door, and so can young people from these countries. Hundreds of Danes have been out and it works completely impeccably with most countries. We have just seen that two of the agreements suddenly exploded and that it began to fall in with young people from Chile and Argentina, and that they did not take a holiday in Denmark and worked a little side by side, but mainly entered the bottom of the unskilled labour market, and that was not on any terms of employment because they actually had their own CVR number in principle. In fact, they helped to undermine pay and working conditions in some sectors which already do not have the best pay and working conditions. That is why I think it is quite reasonable to say that we have some arrangements, but that they should be used for what is intended and not for everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180624	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180625	The problem we Conservatives have with foreigners coming to Denmark is, of course, if they commit crime or end up on high social benefits or establish parallel societies. Now the Minister says that those from Chile and Argentina in particular are undermining working conditions in Denmark. That is a sign that something is being done wrong, that is, that there is cheating or cheating. Shouldn't you get rid of it instead of just saying that you can't come here at all except 150 people?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180655	In fact, I have no reason to believe that there was cheating or cheating, because under the previous rules you had to come to Denmark, get your own CVR number and get paid as a self-employed person, for example. a bidding service. One could work in this way as freelance, but we could just see that it was not really an independent business. De facto, they had only one employer and they do not enter and set up some new exciting company in Denmark. They enter the bottom of the food chain on the Danish labour market, and that was not the intention. So it's an attempt to pursue purpose, not to change everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180734	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180749	The debate is open. This is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It is the Minister first, because it is a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119180819	The Conservative People's Party proposes with the motion for a resolution that the government be required to ensure that priority is given to receiving persecuted Christians and other religious minorities when Denmark welcomes quota refugees. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that Christian minorities in several parts of the world are persecuted and live in extremely difficult conditions. That is clear, among other things. of the Open Doors report referred to in the comments to the proposal. Recently I also read a terrible article about the expulsion of Christians from Iraq. So there is absolutely a relevant issue to address here. In fact, I also believe that I and the author of the motion basically agree that it is important, in connection with the resettlement of quota refugees, to emphasise the ability of those concerned to settle and integrate into Danish society. In my optics a resettlement can normally only be considered successful if the person concerned has the will and ability to become a self-supporting and productive member of Danish society on an equal footing with the other citizens. We must, of course, strive for this with the quota system. But the government can't support this proposal. This is because, in our view, the issue of the reception of quota refugees should also have a strategic objective. The Government therefore considers that the approach described in the proposal may be a disadvantage to the way in which we believe that Denmark makes the most of its participation in international resettlement cooperation. I will come back to that in a moment. In addition, the proposal raises questions in relation to our international obligations. The government wants to pursue a policy in which we can manage more ourselves, how many foreigners come to Denmark, while at the same time we want to take international responsibility. As part of that policy, the government supports aid to the neighbourhoods of refugees and the controlled resettlement of refugees through the UN. In this way, we use our resources best and we help more people in the neighbourhood and spend less money on asylum treatment on Danish soil with challenges with rejected asylum seekers who do not want to go home. It is the government's view that, within the framework of the quota refugee scheme, we must help some of the most vulnerable refugees, as long as we maintain the right balance between the number of refugees that Denmark receives together and the ability of the municipalities to integrate them. In addition, we must ensure that the quota refugees we receive must, as far as possible and within the framework of the quota refugee scheme, be people who have the opportunity to take root in Denmark and benefit from the residence permit as long as the need for protection remains. Under the current rules for the reception of quota refugees, it is up to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to determine annually the number and overall distribution of quota refugees to be repatriated in Denmark. The decision is made on the basis of an overall balance between the social and economic capacity of society, as stated in the preparatory work. In this context, it has, among other things, been able to do so. the importance of how many foreigners have come to Denmark in recent years and how those who are already in Denmark are integrated. As I mentioned earlier, the government believes that the reception of quota refugees should have a strategic aim. This is closely linked to the fact that we have an ambition for a fairer and new asylum system, which means that the resettlement of quota refugees will gradually become the primary way of obtaining protection in Denmark rather than spontaneous asylum. I have asked myself whether we can use resettlement smarter, and I think we can. Resettlement can be used as a strategic tool to promote work on a new and fairer asylum system. For example: We have decided this year that Denmark will receive 200 quota refugees living in refugee camps in Rwanda, Central Africa. We are doing this for the simple reason that earlier this year the government has given financial support to a programme in which Rwanda promises a great deal of responsibility by accepting refugees and asylum seekers from detention centres in Libya, North Africa. Those are the people who, for the most part, intended to cross the Mediterranean and try to join the European Union. That is why I think it makes sense for Denmark to help Rwanda and, in return, to welcome quota refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi who are staying in Rwanda. So it is not those who have been evacuated from Libya that we are relocating in Denmark. We want resettlement in the long term to be the primary route to protection in Denmark. It should not be those who pay the traffickers to embark on a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean to be rewarded with protection in Europe. Rwanda is a good example of a country taking the lead in tackling migration challenges on its own continent. They lift a huge responsibility, and I think we should recognise and back them up in that. The proposal we are debating today also gives me an opportunity to say something about how the selection of quota refugees is carried out. It is the Foreign Affairs Agency which, in close cooperation with the UNHCR, which is the UN Refugee Organisation, makes the specific selection of quota refugees. And the Foreign Affairs Agency is already in dialogue with the UN in relation to the selection of the 200 quota refugees that we have decided to receive in 2020. In the selection process, priority must be given to whether the person concerned can be considered to have a need for protection. Secondly, unless there are particular reasons against it, emphasis must be placed on the possibility for foreigners to take root in Denmark and benefit from the residence permit, including the linguistic prerequisites, educational conditions, work experience, family relationships, networks, age and motivation, all of which are termed integration potential. The actual selection of the quota refugees in question is therefore made on the basis of fairly thorough considerations and interviews. I believe that religion in itself can have an impact on some challenges for integration, but it is simplistic to assess the possibilities of integration on the basis of religion alone. The integration potential must therefore be assessed on the basis of an overall assessment and not on the basis of individual conditions such as religion. Generally speaking, the selection of quota refugees must be based on criteria established in accordance with Denmark's international obligations. This means, among other things, that the criteria must not be contrary to the prohibition of discrimination. This also applies to the aspects of the assessment of integration potential. It follows from the practice of the Court of Human Rights regarding this ban that discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs requires very serious reasons for being justified. There are not immediately considered to be such serious reasons which would justify discrimination against quota refugees solely on the basis of religious beliefs. In general terms, I believe that, within the framework of the quota refugee scheme and our international commitments, we must help some of the most vulnerable refugees, as long as we maintain the right balance between the number of refugees that Denmark receives as a whole and the ability of the municipalities to integrate them. At this stage, I am very concerned about how we can use the quota system smarter as a more strategic tool to promote the work of a new asylum system, as we have already started. In addition, I also believe that the integration potential of quota refugees should be assessed on the basis of an overall assessment and not just on the basis of religious beliefs. That is why the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181459	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181502	I think that what the Minister is saying here is the epitome of political correctness. The Minister acknowledges that Christian minorities are among the most persecuted. The minister acknowledges that religion is part of the integration potential when you come to Denmark. And not only that: when you select the 200 quota refugees who come to Denmark this year, you choose to come from Rwanda far away from the Middle East, far away from Muslim countries. I think it's only 1%. Muslims in Rwanda, the rest are Christians. In other words, what we are proposing here is already being done. Yet you can't vote for this because what? Are you afraid of your own shadow, or is it because it is politically incorrect? I don't understand. After all, the Minister recognizes the things we are actually proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181549	I would like to start by saying that it is true that the 200 quota refugees to be selected in 2020, coming from Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo, are mainly Christians. They are in refugee camps in Rwanda. That's right. But the more fundamental question that I think we should ask ourselves in refugee policy is: does Danish society have a special responsibility towards a person who needs protection, who is a Christian, whom we do not have with another person who needs protection, who is not a Christian? There we say that we do not think that we have a particular responsibility to Christians in the world that we do not have with non-Christians. The integration potential includes many parameters, and I am quite sure that religion also has an impact on how people behave, and thus also has an impact on their ability to function in another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181653	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181654	But come on, it just sounds so hollow. You want to look at all sorts of integration potentials... education and one thing and the other... but the only thing you can't put in is religion. I just think it is so politically correct when everyone knows that it is perhaps one of the most important integration parameters.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181715	What I am saying is that the Court of Human Rights says that if there is to be discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs, it requires very serious reasons for being justified. It is international law that we operate within the framework of. Then we say at the same time that we can see that not all people can fall equally well into Danish society and that there are a number of parameters on which integration potential is assessed and that we will not reduce it to just a question of whether you are a Christian or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181748	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181750	Thank you. If you are to have very serious reasons why the quota refugees that you may need to bring here should be Christians, there are two: 1) The Danish population has great challenges, major cultural conflicts, with the people who come from Muslim cultural communities, and have considerably fewer with those who come from Christian countries or from countries with other religious conditions, and 2) Christian refugees are persecuted throughout the world, and they are also persecuted when they come to Europe. In Denmark we have both studies and stories that show that when Christians are at asylum centres, they are harassed by Muslims. In Germany, at one point, consideration was given to whether to divide the refugees and migrants who had arrived according to religious conditions, because Christians could not be at peace with Muslims who harassed them and were violent towards them. So these are two very serious reasons. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181859	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181900	I would like to begin by saying that I agree with the persecution and abuse of Christian minorities, for example. The Middle East is under-lit in the public debate. I read, as I said in the speech, a recent article from Iraq, in which I was shocked to read that an ethnic cleansing had taken place in Iraq during my lifetime, which I had not heard at all and did not know about. I agree with all that and the government will also take 200 quota refugees from Rwanda this year, and they are mainly Christians. What I just insist on is that I am not in favour of the fact that we have a refugee policy which says that, in order to gain access to Denmark, besides having a need for protection, and in addition to having an integration potential, one must also have a particular religion. We are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181949	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119181950	That is probably where we say that the need for protection and the potential for integration, in other words the two points mentioned by the Minister, are precisely greater if you are a Christian. It's obvious. It is evident from asylum centres in Denmark, from asylum centres in the rest of Europe and from the Middle East that Christians are persecuted when Muslims are nearby. And it is evident from our asylum policy and refugee policy for many years now not only now, after Muslim migrants have arrived, but also before the fact that refugees who come with Christian values or from a Christian cultural foundation are better integrated into our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182033	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182035	I have some doubts as to whether there was a question, but the discussion I hear we have with each other is, of course, whether it is generally possible to say that Christians are more persecuted than people who are not Christians. As far as this is concerned, I think we should just stick to the fact that there are individual assessments of whether or not they have a need for protection, and either they have a need for protection, or they do not. And it is true that very many Christians have it, and if you look at the composition of those seeking asylum in Denmark, it will be my best guess that there is an underrepresentation of Christians in relation to how many Christians persecuted there are in the world. I understand all that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182115	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182117	As usual, the minister said that we cannot do this, because what will the Court of Human Rights say? I'm not so interested in that. I am interested in hearing from the heart what members of parliament elected by the Danish people, and what the government, who are the ones who are responsible, those who can come up with the bills • we others can vote in favour or against • really mean. There is no doubt that something conscious is already being chosen about who can best be integrated into Denmark, but why not take the step fully and say: We are taking the Christian persecuted, who are much easier to integrate into Denmark when we are going to take quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182203	But before I come to my heart, I would like to say that the basis of our policy is that we have a constitution and we have some international obligations that we are part of. That is the basis of government policy. Then it is clear that within that framework we are trying to pursue some political objectives. One of them is that we think too many resources are being spent on people who have no need for protection at all, and that is why we want to change asylum policy. As an instrument for changing asylum policy, we would like to use the quota refugee scheme. That is, for example, the case. Therefore, this year we have chosen to cooperate with Rwanda because Rwanda is a country in Africa that takes responsibility for ensuring that people do not get into the rubber boats over the Mediterranean, but that they have a future in Africa. In cooperation with the United Nations and with Rwanda to select the quota refugees, we attach importance to the potential for integration, as stated in the legislation. Nor have I ever emphasized, even when we announced that we would take 200 quota refugees, that they are mainly Christians coming from two neighbouring countries. But they are not just Christians. They have been chosen because they have a need for protection and not because they are Christians. But I have not at any time been saddened that they are Christians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182312	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182313	I just have to say that I think it is only at the moment, as the Minister himself says, that there are fortunately fewer people coming to Denmark, but we still have many problems with those who are here where there are fewer people coming to Denmark that we can get more control of immigration policy. We don't have that yet. I think the Minister will admit that too. But at the moment we can get it and when it is completely under control, I believe that there will be much more support for an idea of quota refugees. And there will be even more support for it if we are looking for Christian persecuted refugees. The minister used the words a few times to make it smarter, but if you want to make it smarter to now use the Minister's a little weird expression... I'll let you say that... I think you should consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182359	Then we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182400	It can also quickly become a discussion about the chicken and the egg. I take the view that the way in which we can get our foreign policy under control is by using the quota refugee scheme a little more strategically. If we decide that we will only take quota refugees when we have a complete control of the influx, then I do not think we will ever take quota refugees, nor do I think we will ever get control of the influx. In fact, I think that our example here in 2020 with cooperation shows something. Rwanda says first: instead of those who are in detention centres in Libya jumping in the boats and trying to get to Italy, we take them to Rwanda. On the other hand, we relieve Rwanda by taking quota refugees. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182439	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. And then it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182455	Quota refugees are selected on the basis of their protection needs; secondary emphasis is placed on the integration potential of each quota refugee, i.e. the possibility of being integrated into Denmark. Here the language conditions, educational conditions, work experience, family relations, networks, age, religion, motivation etc. are looked at. This year the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has decided that Denmark should receive 200 quota refugees from Rwanda, about which we have just heard a great deal in depth, and a large proportion of the refugees who are in refugee camps in Rwanda are Christian refugees from Congo and Burundi. In the social democracy we want to help the world's refugees as best we can. We could help much more if our efforts could be focused solely on the neighbourhoods, and that is also why we are working for a new asylum system to ensure that far fewer people come to Denmark and seek asylum at all. And religion matters in this context. The Dutch sociology professor Ruud Koopmans also concludes this in his really interesting new book "Islam's Dead House " - a book which I know the author Mr. Marcus Knuth is lying on his nightstand, too, because he told me that. Koopmans draws a credible and unique pattern by comparing societies that are in many ways the same, but where religion constitutes the difference. The northern part of Nigeria, which is Islamic dominated, is compared with the southern part of the country, which is Christian. Islamic Maldives are compared to Hindu Mauritius. In Australia Christian Lebanese are likened to Muslim Lebanese, etc. And everywhere is the depressing trend that with Islamic domination follows unfreedom, stagnation and violence. So, yes, religion matters. We in the Socialist Group fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. But people must be judged individually and we will not discriminate against quota refugees as a general rule on the basis of their religion. It would also run counter to our international obligations, obligations which Conservatives, I know at least to date, have also restricted themselves to. In this context, the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182713	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182715	I am glad that we share so many views, including in relation to which books are interesting to read. When the rapporteur recognises the problems that exist, precisely when the Muslim religion is too full and there are so many problems in the Middle East, why is it that the government chooses to take refugees from the Congo, who are in Rwanda, instead of from the Middle East, if it is the case that it does not want to accept Christian quota refugees at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182752	But now the questioner concludes by saying that the government does not want to accept Christian quota refugees at all, and that is not the case. And I really think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration explained very well that it is an overall assessment that you make when you decide which groups of quota refugees you take. In addition, I also think it is a very relevant point to use it as a strategic tool in our work to send out some signals to countries that support our thoughts about redesigning the asylum system. So here we have a country, Rwanda, which shows a constructive will to work with and take decisions which also benefit us. This is rewarded by the fact that we are now taking quota refugees from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182846	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182847	I'm sorry, but I have to correct my choice of words from my last remark. I do not believe that the government will not take Christian quota refugees. But why is it that all these countries are excluded, where there are problems when we drag people to Denmark, and then choose an area that is essentially Christian? Well, you're doing what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182906	Well, I have to admit, I think, sir. Marcus Knuth's criticism here is a little reversed, and it was the same criticism, Mr. Marcus Knuth had to go to the minister. For why not just be glad that we are obviously taking some quota refugees, as Mr. Marcus Knuth thinks we should take too? I do not quite understand what is then a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182929	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we now move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119182946	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that we in the Left basically agree that Denmark has a responsibility to help people flee, and we believe as a starting point that the quota refugee system is a good and solidarity system. But we do not think that Denmark should take quota refugees at this stage. It is vital that the integration of foreigners in Denmark is under control before we can again start receiving quota refugees. Too many are on public support, five out of six refugee women are out of work after 3 years in Denmark. It's just not good enough. For this reason, the Left believes that it is an unwise decision that the new government has decided that Denmark should again receive quota refugees. Having said that, the Liberals share the ambition that if we accept quota refugees, it must be people who have the opportunity to become part of Danish society, learn the Danish language, take an education, get a job. We think this is best for everyone. Proposers want to give priority to persecuted Christians and other religious minorities. The assessment is that it is not possible to select refugees with a particular religious integration potential. Discrimination based on religion would be a violation of the prohibition of discrimination imposed by the Court of Human Rights. Such a selection would therefore be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. For the Left, it does not matter in principle what religion one has. It is about contributing and becoming part of Danish society. We are not blind to the problems that exist. At the time, we started work to help Christians persecuted, so that we can avoid the bindings of conventions in this area. We'd much rather go that way. If and if we go back into the quota refugee system at some point, I believe that instead we should have a report, a text which calls on the Minister to take Christians persecuted all the time into consideration, so that we do not have a legal requirement which is contrary to the conventions we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183206	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183209	It is extremely rare for me to ask questions to my beloved former party, but I simply have to, because I do not quite understand it. When the Left had one-party government power, it was written into the government base that Denmark is a Christian country. After all, the Left has wholeheartedly supported the efforts of Naser Khader to help persecuted Christians around the world, even though it was apparently also a bit of a problem. But it backed the Left as a party as opposed to others. That was great. And actually back, I think it was 15 years ago when Birthe Rønn Hornbech was Minister of Integration, she chose Iraq as a country to take out quota refugees in favour of Burma. This is, of course, a far-reaching approach that we are proposing here. So why is it that the Left doesn't support this wholeheartedly?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183302	Well, if we were to say that priority should be given to Christians, then we would face the challenge of exceeding the ban on discrimination. And then we break an international agreement that I do not see we have any interest in breaking. That is why we need to think about our aid to Christians who are persecuted in another way in the world; perhaps we need a minister to have them in mind when the minister has to select quota refugees if we are to get into that system. Or by making this effort, as Mr. Marcus Knuth himself points out, and as we began at the time when Ulla Tørnæs was minister in this area, I remember, as a result of Naser Khader, to make a special effort for Christians persecuted in the world. We agree on all this. We just need to ensure that the conventions we have are observed and be very careful and careful that we do not short-circuit them.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183404	Remember, we're using mr. and Mrs. But now it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183408	But that's just what's comical. Because what we are proposing here is far along the way what Birthe Rønn Hornbech did a few years ago, and what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye now does by choosing a non-Muslim country with an overwhelmingly Christian population. You just can't say it out loud. The rapporteur then says that we can have that in mind. I think both the Left and perhaps the Minister still have that. You have it in mind, and that's what you're looking for, but you don't dare say it out loud. You're a little scared of your own shadow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183441	I actually understand the comic of it. As I understand the assessment made in the Ministry and here the Minister must correct me, if I am wrong, then you can choose a particular country without falling into the principle of discrimination, but you must not do so with a particular religion. And that's why Birthe Rønn Hornbech could do it his way in his time.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183506	Thank you. It is the case that ministers are charged by their title and not by their name. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183514	Thank you. Can the rapporteur confirm that when you select a specific country or select a specific group of people when you take quota refugees, there is in it an opt-out of some and an option of others on the basis of some hopefully fundamental principles that you have laid down over what you have to choose on the basis of, and thus discrimination against those you do not choose? Can the rapporteur confirm that this is de facto what you are doing when you take quota refugees, as opposed to migrants who just cross the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183600	When and if, with our support, we are to retake quota refugees as we do not think we should, we should look at their potential for integration, and here it is clear to everyone that, in relation to an integration potential, there are clear advantages in choosing groups that have a good tradition of being integrated into Danish society, rather than groups that have a poor tradition of being integrated into Danish society, especially groups with a religious background in Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183633	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183634	When I ask, it's as a follow-up to mr. Marcus Knuth's question. 'Cause it's like sir. Marcus Knuth also said to the Minister earlier, as if these conventions prevent us from saying things as they are. It is also the conventions that prevent us from resolving the problems we have with Islam and with migration from Muslim countries, from scratch, because we have to keep walking like the cat about the hot porridge. However, precisely in the area of quota refugees, we have the possibility of setting ourselves the criteria for what people want for this. And here we already have a government that chooses Christian nations rather than non - Christians, and therefore it seems a little comical.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183714	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183715	That is why I think it would be sensible if we could produce a text from which the Minister could, as it were, be inspired every time he should be reminded of how the potential for integration is best triggered and reflected by those who are brought to Danish society as quota refugees. There is no reason to run directly against a convention that we otherwise welcome. The world before refugee conventions was a world in which millions of people were squandering around Europe without any rights whatsoever. We're not going back to a system like this. We have to do these things wisely. It's good for a small state.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183751	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119183805	Thank you. I think that we should have a debate on the whole concept of the convention, and we will also have that at the request of the Danish People's Party. In other words, it is strange to keep getting caught up in sensible proposals; if we do not have the European Union that limits, then we have conventions that impose restrictions. And I think we should get back to the fact that it is the Constitution that we are dealing with. We can, of course, put a great deal of emphasis on this at the moment, that is to say that it is the one we are dealing with and not so much else. But we will come back to that discussion. Otherwise, however, I would say that this is in fact a good and proper proposal that we are debating today from the Conservatives. If Denmark is going to take back quota refugees we haven't really heard anything for 2021 yet... then it's right to take quota refugees from areas of the world where there are Christian refugees who need protection. And there are quite good reasons for taking Christian refugees over refugees from Muslim countries; that is obvious. They are just a lot easier to integrate into our society, and that shows all the experience. In the first year of the VK government in the early 00s, the Danish People's Party made an agreement with the government that quota refugees should be chosen from among those who were most integral to Danish society. The Red opposition was very unhappy with this, led by the radical Morten Østergaard; I remember it very clearly. When there was a debate on the quota refugees in the summer of 2006, then integration rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, now the late Jesper Langballe, said that the selection of quota refugees is being made completely consciously. He said, and I quote, this is because some Muslim refugees in particular did not want to be integrated into Denmark. Refugees are not ranked according to their beliefs, but according to their desire for integration. We are mainly dealing with quota refugees who have the opportunity to be integrated in this country. It is a good and humane and humane practice. That's what Mr. Jesper Langballe in Kristeligt Dagblad. And he went on to say: "A certain automatic logic is built into the fact that the moment you choose people who are more integral, it is likely to lead to fewer Muslims and more Christians. We know from experience that Muslims are very difficult to integrate. In fact, it is the only group of foreigners with whom we have integration problems. In those years, Denmark received many quota refugees from Burma and Africa with a Christian background because they were easier to integrate. In 2009, there was again a debate on the quota refugees following a report from among others. Foreigners' service that Danish municipalities had good integration experiences with especially Christian refugees from Myanmar and Congo. The Radicals were not surprised to hear about that again. But even from Danish Refugee Aid, the announcement was that it is not decisive which refugee groups Denmark chooses to help. And asylum chief Anne la Cour said: "On the other hand, we are helping to improve the situation as difficult as the Burmese refugees in Malaysia are in. She was quite right about that. It was also at the same time that the then integration rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, quite rightly said that the Danish People's Party has never tried to hide the fact that one would like to see Muslim refugees removed. I think it is part of the debate that Denmark has previously chosen to receive Christian refugees rather than Muslims. When there are enough refugees to choose from, and unfortunately there are in the world we live in, and if Denmark is going to receive any Danish People's Party say no at all, I would like to stress that we might as well receive some people who quickly fall in here instead of some who experience very severe problems. I have a question for the Conservatives' proposal. First of all, the proposal is that in receiving quota refugees, priority should be given to receiving persecuted Christians. That is, of course, clear and logical. I assume that it is believed that Danish authorities should primarily select Christian refugees for reception in Denmark, because it is ourselves who select the quota refugees. Secondly, it says 'and other religious minorities', and I have to ask: What does that mean? It may well be a minority in some countries that are Muslim, and if the proposal includes them, it is a problem. We do not want any more Muslim refugees to Denmark. If it is made clear that the proposal does not include Muslims, then the Danish People's Party is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184250	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184252	Now we have chosen the order of questions here in the Danish Parliament, on the basis of what the questioner is suggesting, so I would like to answer the question. An example could be Germany, which, following the massive attacks by the Islamic State on the Yazidi population, chose to take a limited number of hundred yazidi after the abuses they had suffered. We think so, for example. could be a good idea. But this proposal suggests a very broad interpretation. Now we have seen Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech from the Left, who chose to remove focus from Iraq in favour of Burma. The government here has removed focus from the Middle East, at least last year, in favour of predominantly Christians in Rwanda. We think that is a good example. However, the Yazidians could certainly be an answer to the question put by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184344	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184345	Thank you. I think it requires a thorough discussion in committee, and I really think I must say that immediately now we can come back to it, and I do not want to make it quite clear that it is actually a very sensible attitude, Mr President. Mads Birded came along, namely that we may somehow agree that, once we are trapped in those conventions as a straitjacket, we are calling on the government. And there we can look at exactly what Mr. Marcus Knuth mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184413	There are no more brief comments. That is why we thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and move on to Mr Kjærsgaard. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184427	Thank you. In the parliamentary elections last summer, it was one of the fundamental issues of the Radical Left that Denmark must, of course, again welcome quota refugees, some of the world's most vulnerable. Denmark is now taking back quota refugees. Money is set aside on the Finance Act for 500 of the kind, and here on the edge of the Christmas month it could be a radical wish that we also reached the 500, but that is another discussion. That is why, in a sense, it is gratifying that the Conservatives are opening the debate on quota refugees, even though we are not completely fooled by the method. You flee for many reasons, and the reasons why you end up in a situation where you then qualify to become a quota refugee are many, and persecution because of religion is one of them. War is another. But the common feature is that there is a need for the protection of quota refugees, for humanitarian reasons, that is to say protection, not on the basis of the religious beliefs of the individual refugee. The Radical Left cannot therefore support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184523	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184526	The rapporteur recognizes that religion, for example. If you are a Christian or a Muslim, do you have a major influence on the potential for integration in Denmark, that is, when you come to Denmark, and does the rapporteur recognise that there are real, very many persecuted people around the world and that Christians are one of the groups most persecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184547	I recognise that Christians are also persecuted in the world and that there may be a need for protection for Christian groups, but I must insist, as previous rapporteurs have said, that the need for protection is based precisely on a need for protection and that we cannot make that selection because it would conflict with our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184606	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184607	Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard was talking about other minorities, which are also part of this. I used before the example of Yazidi women, and Germany I even think it was the Land of Bavaria that specifically chose to take a number of hundreds of vulnerable, persecuted, horribly tortured Yazidi women. Does the rapporteur think it was wrong to focus on Yazidi women, that is, a religious minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184636	I shall not go into what the Bavarian state chooses by methods. I note that Denmark has entered into international commitments, and of course we intend to comply with them. This is also true here, and it is the need for protection that determines it and not the religion of the persecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184651	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184653	I'd like to follow up on sir. Marcus Knuth's question, because if it is not contrary to the international obligations which both Germany and Denmark are currently bound by, and for some happily bound by, it must be the case that accepting a specific religious group that is persecuted is okay. and not contrary to the conventions. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184724	As I said, I cannot go into what the Bavarian state has chosen for reasons. I can only take the words of the Conservative rapporteur for good goods. I must insist that I believe that this should be based on an international regulatory framework in which we have to meet the obligations we have, including providing protection to those in need. Here is the current quota refugees, where Denmark has set aside money to accept 500, and currently we accept 200. But if that is for the reason that Mrs Pernille Vermund is talking about, I do not know about it, so I cannot go into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184752	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184753	So if you can factually prove that there are Christian minorities and other religious minorities around the world who are violently persecuted and more persecuted than others, would that be sufficient evidence that the Radical Left will say that then we have an obligation to help them first?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184816	It cannot be the religion of a persecuted person who decides whether or not to receive protection. That alone is the need for protection, and hence also the obligations that we have signed up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184827	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. That is why we now move on to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119184835	Thank you. In SF we think it is very good that the government, with pressure from among others. The SF has opened up to welcome the quota-holders in general and this applies regardless of their religious affiliation, and of course includes the fact that Christians are also persecuted. We recognise that. Quota refugees are the most vulnerable refugees that we need to help and protect. In our view, therefore, no distinction can be made, for example. a Christian and a Muslim. If this resolution, which, as I suggest, is to distinguish between the religious background of refugees, is adopted, we will see the following scenario for us: two people are threatened with their lives and have fled, they have different beliefs, but are related to each other, and they are now both in a refugee camp and are equally vulnerable and threatened. We go down from the Danish side to pick them up, and then we start by asking them what they believe in... not what they have escaped from. We choose the one whose religion we like and ask the other nicely to stay where he is. In our view, that is not the way to act. One can have a fundamental view of how many refugees we can accept, and we can also have a fundamental discussion that this can be linked to integration at home, but choosing refugees on the basis of their religiousness is not something we should cultivate in a secular society. It's just tribalism. In a secular society, we distinguish between people and not religions. Against this background, I would like to inform you that the SF cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185041	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185043	We have deliberately formulated this motion for a resolution so that it can be interpreted very broadly, and one can either do it with a very narrow, dismissive view and give an example as the example the rapporteur himself set, or one can try to embrace broadly and see how this could be done in a good way. It could, for example, be done. be what the Minister has done by focusing on an all-important Christian country in Africa, rather than choosing some of the countries where we know there are integration problems when people are brought here from the Middle East. But I can try to get to the rapporteur even more, because that also applies to other minorities. Now I mentioned the example of Yazidi women who were taken from Syria to Germany, that is, where there was a specific focus on Yazidi, a religiously persecuted minority. So does the rapporteur think that is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185135	No, not at all. The difference is that Germany did not help the Yazids alone from their religious background, but because it was a group that faced ethnic cleansing. In fact, they were not alone, for one can also say that the Shiites were in fact equally vulnerable in terms of attacks by the Islamic State, so they did not spare anyone those who did not subscribe to their beliefs, should be slaughtered and they do not distinguish between religions. That is why I think it would be totally wrong and not worthy of Denmark to go in and judge people by their beliefs alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185229	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185231	That is exactly what the Germans did when they went in and said: here is a specific group. Yazidians were a specific, exposed religious minority. That's what it was. So let us say that Christian Copts in Egypt were in a particularly vulnerable situation, or Christians in Iraq, those who are left at all, were in a particularly vulnerable situation. Why would it be wrong to go in and give them a hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185256	Well, I think the rapporteur misunderstands a little what I am saying. I do not think it is wrong to help certain groups. I do not think it is wrong to help certain groups who are at risk because of their religion or who are facing ethnic cleansing. That is not what we are talking about at all. What we oppose is that we must, in terms of legislation, give priority only to Christians. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185339	Thank you. Our asylum system in Denmark is obviously deeply unfair. A lot of people who need protection around the world can't afford to escape. They cannot afford to pay a smuggler, and escape is, after all, much more dangerous for some than it is for some others. For example: women are in much greater danger if they flee than men. We also know that children's chances of getting along well through an escape are considerably smaller than that of adults. We know that older people, that sick people have considerably more difficulty fleeing than healthy young men. Does this mean that the refugees who come to Denmark do not have a need for protection? No, but that means that there are others around the world who just can't move to, for example. the Danish border, and there may also be some of those who have an even greater need, but who are then completely cut off from fleeing. Fortunately, we have a system which means that the problem created by the injustices is a little less, and it is a system that creates a little more justice in the disastrous global refugee situation, where almost 80 million people worldwide are forced to flee. It is a system that allows resettlement in a safe country, at least for a small part of the people who, according to the UN's professional judgement, are most in need of protection. That system is what we know as the United Nations quota refugee system. The United Nations quota refugee system is a way of avoiding the smugglers who all the parties are right to fight against. The United Nations quota refugee system is a way of relieving the immediate areas that many parties talk about when we discuss both quota refugees and the refugee situation in general. When it is a way of relieving the surrounding areas, it is because you, for example, are doing so. by bringing people belonging to an ethnic minority or a sexual minority, and thus having a special need for protection, into a camp or a neighbourhood, releases resources to care for the vast majority of refugees who are in these neighbourhoods. These are some of the people that Conservatives are suggesting that we should opt out because they are not Christians, and that makes me really, really sad and sad. These are the most vulnerable people in the world we are talking about here: people who are often traumatized and in need of help and who must now be discriminated against because they are not Christians. We have set up a system at the United Nations that helps the very weakest regardless of their religion, and I think we should respect that system. From 1979 to 2015, in agreement with the United Nations, we have undertaken to take some of the quota refugees that the United Nations is trying to resettle, and this has been about approx. 500 quota refugees a year. We can afford that in Denmark too. Nevertheless, changing governments have not wanted to take on international responsibility, and today we are only taking on 200 quota refugees. 200 quota refugees are much better than none, but that is far too little, compared to more than 80 million people fleeing the world. In Enhedslisten we fight for Denmark to take even greater responsibility. For example: we have suggested bringing both children and their families out of the now burned camp at Lesbos, the Moria camp, to give them protection. I have no idea whether they are Christians, but I know that they need protection, and that is why I think that this proposal, which comes from Conservatives, is a little bit unsympathetic and strange, and we cannot support it in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185755	Marcus Knuth for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185757	For example, when the Germans picked up vulnerable Yazi women, they specifically chose to pursue a religious minority. That could also be what the government is proposing, that is to say, to pick up refugees from Congo, which is an overwhelmingly Christian area. Does the rapporteur consider this to be unsympathetic and strange?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185822	Well, of course I can choose to put a positive interpretation down on the resolution of the Conservative People's Party, and if what the proposal means is that we should take even more quota refugees than those we are taking today, then I think we should do so. That's just not how I read the proposal, but there's Mr. Cole. Marcus Knuth probably makes me smarter, since he's the one who put it forward. I do not think that we should choose quota refugees on the basis of their religion, but precisely on the basis of what they are fleeing from. And it is true that some people are fleeing on the basis of their religion, and we must take that into account. But this motion for a resolution removes the possibility of helping all the other vulnerable people I sneaked up: children, women, the sick, the elderly, if they are not Christians.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185903	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185907	So, the largest and most persecuted religious group in the world are Christians. We could just take the cups in Egypt; we could take those that are even back in Iraq. And they live like hunted crazy. Why is it that the rapporteur cannot see it? And if you take those who are so persecuted, some of the most persecuted, and at the same time have a religion and an understanding of culture that is more like ours than it is, such as. people from various Muslim countries have, why can it not be a positive thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119185940	First of all, I am quite sure that the Jews also feel like a fairly persecuted people and a fairly persecuted religion. Secondly, as I said, I do not think we should take into account what people believe in, but take into account what they are fleeing from. And I admit that there are some people who are fleeing on the basis of their religion, but there are also people who are fleeing because they are ill because they are politically persecuted because they have a sexuality that is not accepted in the country they are fleeing from. So I think, and we think in the Enhedslisten, that the focus should be on what you're running from instead of what you believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190027	Thank you. New citizens believe that we should introduce a full stop to asylum in Denmark. We have massive challenges with foreigners in Denmark, primarily from the Muslim world. We have great challenges for integration, and we have them because for too many years we have been pursuing an asylum policy where too many have come here and where too few have been sent out when they have not been able to behave properly or support themselves. The stop for spontaneous asylum that we want has not yet been introduced. The day it is introduced, and I am quite sure it will be at some point, and the day these problems will hopefully be resolved, we are open to receiving quota refugees again. But not until that day. When we get there, we think it is quite natural that quota refugees should be given priority on the basis of two essential criteria in order of priority. The first must, of course, be that the people we accept must be able to adapt easily and fit into Danish society, and we know that people from the Christian cultural circles have much more than Muslims, for example. The second is that they must, of course, have a real need for protection, which means that they cannot just get help in their neighbourhood. The fact is that we can help much more if we help them close to the country from which they are fleeing, and that is why all or most of the effort must be concentrated in the neighbourhood. But there are quite a few when we talk this way in relation to the total mass, which cannot only be helped in the vicinity, and it is of course mainly those who are so persecuted that even when they come to an asylum centre in Europe, even when they come to an asylum centre in Denmark, they are still persecuted because Muslims even in Denmark and even at asylum centres in Denmark are harassing them, are violent, and this has the consequence that the authorities have problems with having Muslims and Christians under the same roof. That is why it is quite obvious that the day that we may have to take back quota holders from the perspective of New Citizens, it would be logical to accept people from the Christian cultural community and in a limited number, whole families, and in a number that we also assess year by year, i.e. how many we can take here. Unfortunately, the situation is not that we have 90 mandates or 90 mandates behind our policy. The situation is that we have a government that has opened up several quota refugees, although there is still no stop to spontaneous asylum. On that backdrop, one might want the government to stress that the foreigners who are taken as quota refugees are not only those who need help most, but are also those who have the easiest way of adapting to Danish society. And there it is just objectively a huge advantage that you have a Christian cultural basis and that you are rounded by some values that are similar to those we have in Denmark. The motion for a resolution contains a few sentences which we are not so enthusiastic about. It says something about, is it especially in the Muslim world, in the Middle Eastern countries, that Christians are most persecuted. That's factually true. Our problem is with the migrants who have come here from Muslim countries. We do not measure religion in Denmark, but we can look at nationalities and how they do when they come to Denmark. We can see that those who come from nationalities who are Christians or rounded by Christian values, or other religions, are doing well. We can see that those who come round with Islamic cultures or the like are doing badly. But we do not actually know enough about whether the Iraqis, Syrians, etc. who are in Denmark are Christians or Muslims, and as one person commits crime and lives on public support etc. We may have a clear presumption of this, but I would like to know more about the situation of the people who came here from Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan and so on. There are some aspects to religious freedom that mean that we do not measure it, but I think it might be interesting to get that knowledge before opening up to Afghans, Syrians, Iraqis, Moroccans, etc. can come here just because they say they're Christians. On the basis of the fact that quota refugees are already being received; on the basis that the quota refugees referred to as Christians are not people who have just jumped from one religion to another in order to gain access to them, we can support the proposal in such a way that, in rough terms, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190539	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190541	Thank you. It was actually mostly one of the last things that Mrs Pernille Vermund mentioned, which I thought was interesting, because it is one of the things that Ruud Koopmans touched upon in her book "Islam's overdue house." There he has a review of how Lebanese in Australia are doing, and there is a clear pattern: Christian Lebanese are doing well, and Muslim Lebanese are doing badly. As far as I remember, he has another study where it is Arabs in Detroit, and there is the same pattern: Muslim Arabs are not doing so well, and Christian Arabs are doing very well. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund has a point in that it is something that might be interesting, that is to say that it was something one would want as a research project in the integration industry here at home if anyone would throw themselves at it. But that was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190632	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190633	Well, I wish we could get that knowledge. The more precise we can be in relation to getting close to where the problems are, the better we can be at solving them. And to the extent that you can say that it doesn't matter that you're rounded up by an Islamic culture, because it's your own religion, and it's your own legacy that's strong enough for you not to be oppressed by women, and that you don't have these totalitarian thought sets that you often see, it's a nice and good knowledge to have. So we fully support that you get as much knowledge as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190716	Then we thank Mrs Pernille Vermund and then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Vermund. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119190731	Thank you, sir. President. For us Conservatives, Christianity is part of the foundation of Danish society, and of course I am not wondering whether you are an active believer or not. I am thinking of the fact that Christian culture helps to define us Danes. We are also of the opinion that if you come here from a Christian culture or a culture that is close to our own, you can be significantly easier to integrate into Danish society. Let us look at Christian minorities in the Middle East. I have mentioned the Christians in Iraq before; those who are left at all. I think there was once over a million. If there are even a few hundreds of thousands left, it is. They once lived relatively peacefully alongside other religions, and today they live like hunted game. You hear about the attacks and assaults that are against the Copts in Egypt, and I could go on and on. If we then see how vulnerable Christian minorities are, especially in the Middle East, then we think it would be quite obvious to reach out to this particularly persecuted group, which would also have greater potential for integration. You can say integration potential here in the Folketing. The minister said so himself. Other parties have said so; just do not say integration potential and religion. That is politically incorrect. We think that Conservatives are going as far as we can. We Conservatives would like to take quota refugees. This is the only right way to take refugees. We don't think we should open up right now. We had actually hoped that we could open up because when the Social Democratic Party went to elections, it was promised that all asylum seekers would be enchanted down to a camp in North Africa in order to eliminate the problem of the spontaneous influx of asylum and then to focus on the good way to bring refugees here, namely through the quota system. That hasn't happened yet. So this is, of course, a proposal that looks into the future to the day when the government gets to grips with the spontaneous influx of asylum. As I said to Mr. Mads Fuglede: I was so happy when the Left first as a one-party government and later as part of the VLAK government said that Denmark is a Christian country. I think Mrs Gjerskov was one of those people who thought that it was simply not possible to say that. I think that Mrs Mette Gjerskov should perhaps have looked at the constitution before she meant it, but we thought it was positive. When you also saw the relatively broad support for Mr. Naser Khader's work to help persecuted Christian refugees in the Middle East, but then this should also be something that was widely supported. In addition, many blue parties generally say: yes, there is actually something about religion and integration, but yet you will not back this up. As I mentioned, Birthe Rønn Hornbech did, in fact, far along the way, what we are proposing. She chose to move focus from Iraq to Burma. There were a lot of things back then, including... Radicals who thought it was quite awful, but even though a Left Minister has actually done some of what we are proposing here, we still do not want to support it. We think that's too bad. We would like to thank the Danish People's Party, we would like to thank New Citizens for the positive reception of this, and it is a pity that the Left and the Social Democrats in particular do not support it wholeheartedly. I think it was sir. Mads Birded, who said that it may well be that you think in that direction, but at least that's what you do, but you just don't want to say it out loud, and we think that's a little too bad. But thank you for a really good debate and, as I said, thank you to the parties that support this proposal at least in the direction of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191117	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191119	Thank you. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are a little bit concerned about the part that is about taking quota refugees from the Middle Eastern countries. And we fully agree that there is the pressure against Christians most. We just do not yet have enough facts to show how the individual refugee and migrant, who have already arrived, are doing, depending on what their religion is. And when we have such massive challenges as we have, I think we owe it to us to get some work started in order to find out how those who have come here from Iraq, Syria, etc. will manage, depending on whether they are Muslims, whether they are Christians or whether they have a third religion. Will the rapporteur possibly support such a study?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191218	In any case, I would very much like to take up the discussion in committee. So, the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Rasmus Stoklund actually brought some really good examples from Australia and from the United States, which show what I believe to be true from just a common sense point of view compared to many of those who come here as persecuted Christians from Iraq. I do not believe that, as persecuted Christians from Iraq, the same crime statistics and unemployment statistics as Sunni Muslims or some others do do. But it is certainly a discussion that I would very much like to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191252	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191253	Thank you. I'm glad. And as the rapporteur mentions, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also mentioned other countries, which are not usually described as totalitarian or in other ways such animosity, and which, of course, you have a time when cultural conflicts and religious conflicts mean so much, I think it would be quite obvious. So I hope we're parties across the middle who can agree to get unveiled, and then you can use the surveys for what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191328-2	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund himself has put forward a discussion along these lines, so I hope that there will be a majority of parties who would like to look at what the rapporteur is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191339	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191353	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191414	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that the Conservative People's Party shares my own desire and that of the government to introduce a 37-hour demand. In 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented an alien initiative in which one of the elements was precisely such a 37-hour effort for new arrivals and other benefit recipients who had been in the country for a long time but still had an integration need. As you may have noticed, the government has put forward a proposal to introduce such a 37-hour effort into this year's legislative programme. The starting point for the government is that the Danish welfare society is based on a work ethic, where you go to work and take part in society and contribute actively. That is the clear starting point. The exception to that rule is that there are people who are not in employment and who cannot support themselves and they may receive social benefits under certain conditions. The social contract based on labour ethics must be much more reflected in the demands of new arrivals and other beneficiaries already in the country but still have an integration need. We need more people who lubricate the food package, put on work clothes in the morning, and fewer people who stay at home in the apartment. Indeed, I fully agree with the proposers that employment among immigrants in Denmark is too low. Today, almost half of women from non-western countries are in work. This is, of course, a problem both for women who do not come out into Danish society and experience a normal working day and the community of values that exists among colleagues at a workplace, but also for those children who do not get an opportunity to grow up with an everyday life where Mom and Dad get up in the morning and go to work and come home and tell about today's experiences. The very clear starting point, Plan A, must of course continue to be that you can find a job. If you can't do that as a newcomer, plan B will have to be 37 hours of active action in the future. The same must apply in relation to other beneficiaries of benefits who are in the country but still have an integration need. The 37-hour effort can e.g. In addition, there is a need to ensure that those concerned are outside the home and become an active part of society. Then we must pay for the time and effort that is given, as in a workplace where we are paid for our work. That is to say, if, for example, we are going to do something about it. If you do not show up and do not have legal absence, you will automatically be drawn into your service without too much municipal bureaucracy. Such a model, in which we create a very clear link between effort and remuneration for a particular target group, naturally raises a large number of questions, among others. on how the target group can and must be defined, what the 37 hours of action will consist of, and how the scheme will best operate in an administratively unbureaucratic way in the Danish municipalities. We are currently working in the government to clarify and consider precisely these issues and more. It is a great and complicated work that needs to be done properly, because it will concern many people. Of course, we owe this to the people involved, but we also owe it to society, not least to the municipalities we are asking to administer the scheme and to the labour market, which must also form a major part of the solution. For the same reason, the government cannot simply support this motion for a resolution, even though we are very much in agreement with the thinking behind it, because we are worried that it will leave us with some lines or tracks which are not exactly the right ones. Moreover, the financial costs of the proposal have not yet been clarified. However, I would like to reiterate that I am very pleased with the initiative of the Conservative People's Party. This discussion about the need to meet immigrants with a new logic is important, and I hope, of course, that we can also enter into a dialogue with and get the support of the Conservative People's Party when we come closer to a model that can be dealt with in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191805	Sir. Marcus Knuth for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191807	It is true that when we presented this, it was partly because the government had gone to the polls on this model but had not acted in relation to it. There we find it a pity that we have been waiting for so long, that is to say a whole year, when this large group of people who should be on the labour market is not on the labour market, which costs Danish society huge sums of money. And the longer this group is not on the labour market, the harder it is to get them out. So, first of all, why did they wait until now to act? Or, of course, the proposal has not even been put forward yet. Why were we waiting for what could be up to a year and a half delay? Secondly, I know that the Minister is saying that we are still working on that, but our concern is that some of these people are really good at bypassing the system and joining the sick and the other. How is the Minister going to make sure that people don't just tuck in and hide from the rules that you come with?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119191903-2	It is true that this bill did not appear in the government's first legislative programme. There were a number of other initiatives, including: on foreign fighters, and that is why it has only come to the next, that is to say on the legislative programme that we are now in. Of the legislative proposals that my ministry is going to make, my best guess is that this is going to be one of the most comprehensive and also one that requires the involvement of other ministries... the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance. That is why it is a fairly comprehensive piece of work, and I am actually reasonably satisfied if we can have the third reading and adoption in this session. Then it is true that one of the challenges we have is how we ensure that people actually participate in the programme there is and that there is a flexible and low-bureaucratic model to ensure that they do not receive benefits if they are late. And this can be done on what is called preparatory initial training, which is part of the education system, and that is among other things. Some of the things we're inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192008	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192009	I sincerely welcome what the Minister says about putting so much energy into this. I wish there had been so much energy in it already a year ago, because every day that goes by costs Danish society. However, I also hope, as we say in the comments on the proposal, that you will look at Norway, where you actually have a model for this, which has at least had some positive results. I can only repeat myself over and over again: every day, when these people are sitting on passive support, it becomes even harder for them to enter the labour market and it is more expensive and expensive for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192044	I would like to start by saying that when the bill has not yet been tabled, it is not because we have been sitting on our hands. For example, I have. In some municipalities, they themselves made a great deal of their way around talking about how they fit in with existing legislation, and what they themselves think are the challenges of coming in this direction. I have been to Esbjerg, Vallensbæk, Copenhagen and Greve and talk to mayors and job centre employees about how they think the existing employment and integration policy is working and what is possible. There is plenty of creativity out there, but the legislation today unfortunately binds the municipalities in an inappropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192123	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192123-2	Thank you. This proposal that we are discussing today is almost one for a government's own electoral programme from February 2018. What has happened in the meantime, and after the government has gained power, is that it has not been implemented here and, on the other hand, the benefits have been increased for foreigners who are on cash benefits who are on public support. This has been done on the grounds that it is a pity for families with little money, that children should suffer, that mother and father should not take a job. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that the proposal that comes when So, does the Minister think that it should continue to be the case that if you are a family and have children, you do not have to work, and then you get an extra high benefit because it is a pity for the children? Or do you want to take on harder and more cash, even in relation to the families where there are children?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192226	It is true that, both in what the Social Democratic Party has chosen and in what is stated in the document of understanding, which was formulated prior to the formation of the government, there are thoughts about this point (1) that we would set up a Service Commission to look at the whole area of benefits, and point (2) that while it was working we would make a temporary allowance for the families of children who were covered by the previous benefits. And it is precisely a temporary family allowance because it only has to work until we get a new regime in place. Part of that regime is: How do we meet special new arrivals with a whole new logic? I think it is wrong that they start their lives in Denmark in the cash aid system, which should be the exception to the rule. But for new arrivals, it has become the rule to start with a passive transfer income. And all this work is not just about finding a new level of rates; it's about finding a completely new approach to the first time in Denmark, where you start by saying: Find a job, and if you can't find a job, the municipality has a 37-hour integration program, and if you're late, there's no money.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192330	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192333	Thank you. Now I am seriously worried, because what the Social Democracy promised in February 2018 was not too new arrivals. It was for foreigners on transfer income in Denmark that you had to work 37 hours a week, and otherwise you had to be deducted from your benefit, i.e. if you didn't work the 37 hours. In the meantime, benefits have been given to those who have been here for decades, who are still foreign nationals and who have lived for many years on public support, and they are just being given a bonus, because they must have a reward for that. And now you talk about what you promised in 2018 is only for the newcomers.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192411	Thank you. Now we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192413	As I also said in my speech, the target group has not been definitively defined, but it certainly includes new arrivals. The proportion of those who have been here for a long time, which must also be covered, has not yet been defined. And it is also because what I am particularly able to relate to is those covered by the Integration Act, which comes under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. If you have been in Denmark for many years and you have been on cash benefits for many years, you are now part of the general employment policy. What has just been our point when we published our programme in February 2018, and still is, is that it is also integration policy problems that make some of those people not part of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192449	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192450	I would like to start by asking the Minister a very simple question: is the government going to present the government's model of 37 hours of employment for what we can now understand only new refugees, contrary to what the government kind of promised before the elections, before or after the Commission makes its recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192515-2	I would like to start by saying that I have not said that this will only apply to new entrants. I have just said that this will certainly apply to all new entrants. What proportion of those who have been here for a long time, who will also be covered by it, has not been established yet, for it is a huge group, and where should it be defined? This must be done sensibly. Now I have simply forgotten what was asked about (Morten Dahlin Before or after the Service Commission?). Oh, yeah. So, the first thing you're going to see is the recommendations of the Service Commission, but we're just not going to wait to prepare this proposal until the Service Commission has made its recommendations. We're gonna be able to prepare a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192601	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192603	Thank you. The second question I would like to ask the Minister is: does the target group definition that the Minister is now making mean that the promise made by the Social Democratic Party before the elections that this should apply to all those who need integration has been swept off the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192625	No, I really think that this is a perfectly natural extension of what we also said before the elections, and which I myself, as rapporteur for foreigners before the elections, have said on many, many occasions. We lean, among other things. from the time Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment, where an integration order was established as an experiment in which the municipalities, on the basis of objective criteria, among other things. About Danish knowledge and employment relationship, could impose some integration as part of employment policy. It actually worked with reasonable success, and that is among other things. Some of the things we're trying to get inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192702	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192713	Thank you, President. Our welfare state is not designed to provide for an underclass of people, too many of whom originate in the Great Middle East, and in the best of all worlds public support should be a last resort for people who are innocent of unemployment or accident. That is why I think that there is reason to sign the Conservative motion for a resolution because, of course, foreigners must contribute to the labour market. It is indisputable that both men and women originating in the Middle East, North Africa, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Somalia and a number of other countries today have far too low employment rates. This is also why the government, as the Minister has now explained quite thoroughly, is working to present a model to ensure that benefits and efforts are in line with each other. Unfortunately, there are no snapshot solutions in this area either, which is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, because there is a need for thorough work. We agree with the intention, we are working on the matter, and we in the Social Democrats agree that it is essential for integration that far more foreigners enter work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192830	Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192831	Thank you. In the Social Democratic project of February 2018, the media said on the basis of this that up to 30,000 people would be activated as a result of refugees and immigrants having to work 37 hours a week to receive public support. Can the rapporteur confirm that there are not 30.000 people who are only refugees, but that some of them are also immigrants who are not necessarily in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192907	I cannot confirm that they are not necessarily in this area because, as the Minister has just said, the group has not been definitively defined yet, and it is also a larger group than just those for which the Minister is responsible today. That is why I cannot go any further, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192933	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119192934	So let me ask in another way: will it still be the case that the Social Democratic Party is able to live up to the promise that up to 30,000 people must be activated as a result of the requirement to work 37 hours in order to receive benefits? When I ask, it is because we have a minister who has just said that those for whom the Minister is responsible are the ones who have just arrived, and then he is responsible for the first few years of their presence, but those who have been here for many years and who, incidentally, filled part of the Minister's speech do not fall within this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193012	The problems of integration in Denmark have therefore not been resolved until a number of conditions have been met, and they will certainly not be resolved until we have employment rates for people from the non-western world who are the same majority population. And as long as we're not there, we're not there. What it is in actually thousands of people or when we will be in line with it, I dare not say here, but our intention is quite clear, and it is that you must make contributions to society if you are to be able to receive transfer income. We are on the goal of that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193045	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193046	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that the government's priorities are right when the first thing you do after coming to government is to increase the benefits for refugees? The next thing you do is to make it easier for others. refugees to stay in Denmark when there is peace in the country of origin, and now, a year and a half later, we have still not been fully aware of what we think is one of the most important things we should have done: to get people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193115-2	Yes, I think it was very sensible to do what we had said a long time before the elections: that we would set up a benefit commission and try to rethink the benefit system, and that we would then also try to make a more thorough effort to get far more people with a non-western background in employment, in other words to try to make some structural changes in the employment system instead of some of these minor adjustments that are otherwise being tried on. The fact that we come to a principle whereby you first give a number of hours on the labour market or in activation, if you cannot find yourself a job and if you then receive a benefit, I think that is a good and healthy principle on which it is sensible to base our model.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193203	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193203-2	However, does the rapporteur not see anything occult in that the longer these people who have not yet been activated, as they would otherwise like when the bill comes, sit without being activated, the harder it is to get them activated? This is a real cost to Danish society. Now the Social Democrats themselves came up with a figure of how much that bill would save. If we ask a question about how much it has actually cost Danish society to wait, what may be a year and a half, is this a question that the rapporteur will support us in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193238	Now it is not the case that no effort has been made so far under previous bourgeois governments and under the former Thorning-Smith government, etc. At the same time, it can be seen that there is also evidence that there has been some sort of fear of contact or stagnation in parts of the employment system. I read, for example. an analysis from the DA last year which showed that a very large proportion of non-Western immigrants were not at all at meetings in the job centre or municipality and yet just passively received benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193317	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193318	The rapporteur says that the problems of integration in Denmark have not been resolved until the employment rate for immigrants and refugees is what it is for the rest of society. Nevertheless, the rapporteur himself has sat down here in this Parliament hall with a big smile on his lip and pressed green and voted to give unemployed immigrant families up to 2,000 kroner. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done and for the work he has done to make the proposal that would actually bring more people into work a reality. Can the rapporteur not understand that it sounds a little hollow that the Social Democratic Party is talking so much about getting more immigrants into work when the only initiative the Social Democratic Party has taken in this area is to raise social benefits for those who are not in work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193415	No, I have to admit, I can't really see blades hollow, but I can see that Mr. Morten Dahlin has an interest in making it sound like it should. We went into an election campaign where we had said clearly in advance that we would do something to ensure that far more foreigners came into work, but we would also do something to prevent children from growing up in poverty. Therefore, we made the plan to set up a Service Commission to help rethink the system and make some new proposals, and we said that until it comes with its results, we will make a temporary allowance which, as far as I remember, is 500-600 DKK. for a child, in order to protect children as far as possible from growing up in poverty. For children are innocent, children are not responsible for their parents being unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193506	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193506-2	After all, the temporary allowance has already been extended twice. As you know, there is nothing more permanent than a temporary state regime, and we shall see if it ever disappears again. Back to sir. Rasmus Stoklund's statement that integration problems have not been resolved until as many immigrants are in work as Danes: Rasmus Stoklund, that the higher benefits of social democracy to unemployed immigrants are getting more immigrants into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193534-2	I do not think that is what will solve the underemployment problem among foreigners. As I said, the temporary benefit initiative was an initiative we took to protect children who we do not believe have a responsibility for their parents being unemployed. But that does not change the fact that there is a huge challenge in this and that we must ensure that much more foreigners get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193605	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193614	Thank you for the floor, President. When you come to Denmark, you have to support yourself and your family. That is the fundamental position of the Left. Unfortunately, we have to note that this is not always how it works today. In fact, it is often the opposite. Too many refugees and too many immigrants with a non-Western background are on passive support. Actually, only 36%. of the 21-64-year-old refugees and families joined in jobs after 3 years in Denmark, and although the figures look a little better when you look at the whole group of non-western immigrants, the level of employment is still remarkably much lower than it is for citizens of Danish origin. Actually, it's only 60%. of the male immigrants from non-western countries in jobs, and in the case of women it is about half. At the same time, we know that immigrants receive significantly less activation than citizens of Danish origin. So, at the same time, a group with a much lower employment rate receives much less activation. It's in every way a bad match, and this high unemployment among these groups is a major social problem for Denmark economically, socially and culturally. Economically, no Western immigrants and descendants cost the Danish taxpayers an amount of no less than 33 billion. kr. a year, money that could have remained in the Danes' pockets or that could have been spent better on cancer treatment, green conversion or better care for the elderly. And that amount has only increased because the government, because the Social Democrats, has chosen to increase the benefits for unemployed immigrants, so that an unemployed immigrant family is now rewarded with DKK 2 000. extra every eternal one month • well to feel tax-free. It is also a major challenge in social and cultural terms. Too many immigrants and refugees without work crawl together into the ghettos and create parallel societies. They do not come into contact with the outside world, and their children do not grow up in an everyday life where Mom and Dad get up in the morning and go to work, and that is in every way a bad situation. Basically, the Left believes, of course, that when refugees come to Denmark, the starting point should be that they should return and help rebuild their homeland when there is peace, but while they are here, they should contribute to the community by being in the labour market, and therefore we have also said before that this loosely formulated idea by the government in 37 hours is something that we can see ourselves in. The Minister mentioned earlier that he has visited my municipality, where I am chairman of the Employment Committee and have moved a little on this agenda, and when we can support the one that has been formulated, we can of course also support this resolution by the Conservatives. But this isn't gonna solve everything, and it's very important. It is a small step in the right direction, if anything, but in the Left we have greater ambitions, which is why I can also reveal here a late evening hour from Parliament's platform that we ourselves will soon come up with a number of proposals for more fundamental reforms in this area which go further than both what the government has proposed and also what Conservatives have proposed in this motion for a resolution. When we have it in place, I look forward to discussing it with the Danish Parliament's parties. But here for tonight we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119193950	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194006	Thank you. The proposal is based on a requirement of employment or employment offer for at least 37 hours per year. week for all immigrants on either cash benefits or integration benefits for having the right to receive cash benefits or integration benefits. The proposal's comments clarify that immigrants with a non-western background, and women in particular, fall through the labour market and have a very low employment rate. That's right. The problem with the proposal is that there is only talk of immigrants. There is no distinction between whether these immigrants have come here as refugees or as family members to, for example: Danish nationals. It is as if the Conservatives with the proposal focus on the fact that all foreigners in Denmark who are either on cash benefits or integration benefits have to work for at least 37 hours a week. There we believe that the Conservatives are making the mistake of referring to all foreigners in Denmark as immigrants. This was precisely the mistake that made for decades that no distinction was made between the problems posed by refugees and the challenges posed by other immigrants. The starting point must certainly be that refugees should only be in the country temporarily and then return home when conditions so require. The mistake for decades was to turn refugees into immigrants. It is different with immigrants who must be here long or always. It may be a Dane who has found love in Thailand, marries and takes the woman to Denmark, and she must of course learn Danish, work and in general be self-supporting and contribute to Denmark. That group of immigrants must, of course, be integrated, and demands must be made on them, as opposed to refugees and the families of refugees. They should not be integrated, they should not be in the labour market and earn a link with Denmark, so it will be difficult or directly impossible to send them home when it is possible. For they are needed in their homeland to rebuild the country. In December 2018, DF entered into a finance agreement with the then VLAK government to focus on the repatriation of refugees, the so-called return scheme. It was called the paradigm shift, a slightly strange word, and I would rather say the repatriation scheme because the focus on refugees was repatriation and not integration. I think the Conservatives have forgotten a little about that here. A call must be made in future proposals to distinguish between immigrants so that refugees and immigrants are separated. You can't just treat refugees and immigrants as one pearl. That would therefore be a boost to the debate. As the proposal stands here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194257	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194310	Thank you. In Denmark, it is absolutely essential to be able to take care of oneself and support oneself. If you can't do that, then the community can step in, for example. with cash benefits, and the goal is clear: to be on support, to be on cash benefits, is something you are temporary. The goal is to be able to support oneself. The Radical Left can therefore support the intention of the proposal, namely that we should increase the employment rate for immigrants. We also support the intention to make demands on people who, for example, are on cash aid, so that we as people make demands on each other, because when you make demands, there is also an expectation that you can contribute. We are therefore not opposed to a request for 37 hours of activation. We would also like it to be extended so that not only employment and employment opportunities, but also education or Danish education, could be looked at in relation to such an activity requirement. And if the activation works for those born in other countries, then it may also work on those born in this country. However, there is no funding in the proposal and we do not think it is good civil responsibility to propose expenditure that has not been found money for. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but we clearly support the intention and purpose and look forward to discussing the proposal that is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194420	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194423	I was so pleased when the Radical Left said that they could support it and that it was fine and that the intention was supported but funding is not supported. I mean, this proposal is something that is supposed to put people on passive support into the labour market. It is not something that costs It is something that will save huge sums of money. This is a proposal which the Radical Left itself supports, but which has not acted on. How can one say that it is because of a lack of funding, when it is something that will actually save the Danish state money?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194456	Radicals look forward to it when we get so far that we get them into work. We agree with the intention that we should be able to do so and that that is the aim of it, but first we need money on the table to get the effort going, among other things. to ensure education and also Danish education, perhaps, for those who need it. So in the long term, it can save, yes, and we need to raise the employment rate. But there's gotta be money on the table first.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194517	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194517-2	But basically we agree that getting people from passive support to the labour market is positive and that it is something that saves the Danish state money. And if we agree on that, why on earth can't the Radical Left support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194534	We look forward to discussing the proposal made by the government. We agree that the frequency needs to be raised and that it can also provide both a better life for many people who are currently on transfer and a saving in public funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194550	Thank you. I would like to start by signing up to the Conservative People's Party to table the motion for a resolution here to ensure that all immigrants on cash benefits or integration benefits are in employment or employment offers for at least 37 hours per year. week. In the SF, we agree with the proposers that a close link with the labour market is important and that we need to be better at getting new entrants quickly into the labour market and becoming integrated. That is why we also think that a 37-hour solution sounds exciting to people who need quick contact with the labour market. But we also have concerns. Firstly, it is important that such an intrusive proposal as this has been worked out, sent into consultation and that it is legally in place. We cannot simply adopt a resolution such as this without knowing whether we are complying with international obligations in relation to equal treatment and non-discrimination. Secondly, a motion for a resolution such as this is something in which the Danish trade union movement and employers should be closely involved, and we also need to have more companies with us. The Conservative People's Party can say that everyone has to work for 37 hours, but how it is approached in practice is a huge break in the Danish labour market, and here, of course, the trade union movement has to be on every step of the way. It is important for the SF that this bill makes sense and actually contributes to solving the problems of unemployment among immigrants. It is also crucial that the 37 hours of activation are meaningful for the individual and actually help to integrate the individual into society, both in terms of work and education and preferably in combination. With these comments, I would like to say that the SF cannot support this motion for a resolution, and if we know, moreover, that the government has a similar bill on the way, we will call on the government to develop this bill in a negotiation process involving the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194821	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194822	I would like to say again that I am a little surprised at the argument here. It is feared that this will be against international commitments. This is about getting people from passive support into the labour market, and has it suddenly become against international commitments? This is something we have put forward because the government itself has not acted on the government's own proposal, and that is to say that the rapporteur does not intend to support the proposal that comes from the government, which the government has, I believe, chosen on a government under which the rapporteur's party itself holds its hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194857	When I talk about international commitments, I am thinking of the fact that this resolution is, after all, targeted at a particular group. And whether it can be in accordance or not with international commitments, we just need to get in place. Secondly, in the SF, of course, we support the need for immigrants and refugees, and women in particular, to have education and work. SF was already out 2 or 3 years ago with a proposal for a training order for women with an immigrant background, so of course we are to activate people and get them into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194944	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194945	But if the rapporteur's party itself has focused on women with an immigrant background, why should it be against international commitments to focus on a particular group? That's what the SF did.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119194956	I am not saying that it is necessarily contrary to international conventions or to legislation; I am just saying that we must be sure of that. When we drew up our proposal, we were, of course, sure that we complied with international conventions and legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195016	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195027	Thank you. As several speakers have said, the proposal that Conservatives are making today is based on ideas that have already been aired by the government. I think we all agree that it is good to be in work or in education. It is a good thing to have something to stand up to, and I am convinced that all people would like to contribute what they can to our community. However, I think that this resolution by the Conservatives is quite wrong, because it is not concerned at all with the barriers that exist today, because some people with an immigrant background or refugee background are not part of our labour market. If we look at the barriers that exist today for foreigners to enter jobs, there are three challenges in particular: education, language skills and disease. That is why we must be better able to provide refugees or immigrants with trauma or disease. We must ensure that the offers we make help to upgrade and retrain them. After all, there are many who come here to Denmark from the country from which they have fled or have migrated, with an education that is not recognised in Denmark, and therefore they cannot use it, and therefore they must be re-educated. This brings people closer to the labour market, and this applies not only to foreigners but, in fact, to everyone in Denmark who does not have a job. There's a good idea, we think in the Enhedslisten, to take action with education. We think that the idea of making more foreigners and refugees part of the Danish labour market is a good one. A job is a good way to integrate; to make Danish colleagues and friends, to acquire the culture and language and the standards we have in this country is a good thing, and I think you learn that if you are part of the labour market. Nor am I a second in doubt, as I said before, that the vast majority of foreigners and refugees have a huge desire to get a job quickly, because that is not the motivation they are mad at. Studies from both Als Research and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration show this, and they point out that foreigners and descendants are at least as concerned about having a job and contributing to society as all of us. There's just not really any jobs to get. With the proposal here, we can actually make it even harder for people on the edge of the labour market to get a job, because if you force people for 37 hours of activation, there are suddenly up to 30.000 people who have to work for free, and that helps to vacuum the labour market for exactly the type of jobs that people on the edge of the labour market can get. It is pushing wages, and it will make it even harder for a lot of people to become part of the working community, of which I think we all agree that it is good to be a part. It is not just us in the Enhedslisten who have these concerns. I wish the Conservative People's Party had taken the trouble to ask those who are actually facing these challenges in the municipalities, because then they would find that the mayors in many of the municipalities of the country find it very difficult to see how they are going to carry out this task of finding so many jobs. For example: The Conservatives' party colleague and mayor of the City of Høje-Taastrup, Michael Ziegler, did not believe that it was realistic to implement when he was asked in 2018 for 37 hours of activation, because, as he said, there is a risk that the job centres will not be able to carry out the task with the groups that are easiest to get in jobs because all the forces are spent on those that are hardest to get in jobs. In addition, I would also like to say that we in the Enhedslist have a concern about this proposal which is about languages. I therefore fully agree that it is important for people to get to work, but if people get to work where they have no contact with other people, if they, for example, have no contact with other people. standing in a warehouse alone at night, they don't learn to speak Danish, so they don't learn to be part of our community if they're alone. That is why I think we also need to think about what kind of jobs we are sending particularly immigrant women into and how we can ensure that they can carry out the task. That is why I think that the Conservative People's Party is taking the wrong approach to a problem that we all agree must be resolved. I think we should start by removing the barriers and thus ensuring that as many people as possible get into jobs. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195503	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195507	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm or deny that I heard correctly, namely that the rapporteur started his speech by saying that the rapporteur has a belief that everyone believes that it really is the rapporteur's view that all
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195524	I believe, as in so many other respects, that you can always find the exception that confirms the rule. But it is my clear conviction that everyone, for example. also people who are sick and cannot work full-time, actually really would like to contribute with what they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195540	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, then we go to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195549	Thank you. Foreigners in Denmark must support themselves. In New Citizens we want to link the right to public support to Danish citizenship. We believe that it must be a prerequisite for a stay in Denmark that you can support yourself, that you guarantee that you support yourself, and if you do not, you must lose your residence permit. The proposal here talks about immigrants, and immigrants in Denmark can both be foreign citizens and foreigners who have acquired Danish citizenship. It also speaks about immigrants very widely, and when we talk about immigrants in Denmark, whether we talk about people with Danish citizenship or foreign citizenship, there are generally three categories. We usually use two, but I'll take three. We have the Western immigrants. They do well in general. Economically, they are a gain for Danish society. We can and must be grateful for them. Then there are two groups of non-western immigrants. There are the East Asian immigrants. They are overall at the level of Denmark, in relation to how they perform in the labour market. There are some countries that do better, but overall they do as Danes, and that is positive. In addition, there are the Great Middle East, the MENA countries, the Muslim countries. They are faring miserable, including in the labour market. That part of the people who are foreigners must, of course, get out if they cannot support themselves. Unfortunately, the part that has been so careless to give Danish citizenship we are stuck with, even if they both commit crime and cannot support themselves. And, of course, for those who do not support themselves, it is important that you make some demands when they are Danish citizens. We know, of course, that many of the women who are spoken about in rapporteurs' speeches and socialist ministers' speeches, those who have been outside the labour market for many, many years, have acquired Danish citizenship and, although they have been screwed up, they have not entered the labour market. Therefore, we have to say that if you don't want to work, you lose the money, the benefit that you are given. It's not enough just to turn it up and down. We have to put in a lot of effort and say: If you are a Danish citizen, this benefit is dependent on you actually running and contributing something. If Mrs Lund is right about what she said in her rapporteur's speech, everyone wants to work, and if that is true, then it is just going. There is little evidence in the statistics to suggest that the people who come from Muslim countries are very interested in working, and if they are, they are not very interested in paying taxes on it, but leave it alone. In new citizens we do not support the proposal, which lies here because it talks about immigrants in general. If we had talked about immigrants with Danish citizenship, we could have a part to play in putting pressure on them, but since immigrants are both foreign citizens and Danish citizens, we are of the opinion that those who are foreign citizens should not have public support in Denmark. Therefore, it does not make sense to demand that they be integrated into the Danish labour market by force.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195930	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments... Yes, Pia Kjærsgaard). But no one's gotten in here. Yeah, I see it now. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119195943	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund concluded by saying that the proposal is not supported in the same way as I did. But I just want to know whether Mrs Pernille Vermund agrees with this and I assume that the whole paradigm shift, that is, that refugees are going home; that we should not start saying one thing and the other that they should have work, that they should have all sorts of rights. I just need to be absolutely sure of that, because I think that the speech was always on Danish citizens and so on. etc. But I did not quite understand it in relation to what was called the paradigm shift and which the current government, with a red majority, unfortunately abolished. I just hope that Mrs Pernille Vermund agrees that we should have it reinstated.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200025	Of course. Migrants who are on a temporary residence permit and who have been granted refugee status must return home when their temporary residence permit expires. And that should be part of an asylum policy in which we say that we are helping in the neighbourhood. And if you can't go home to your home country because it's not safe, we have to make sure that those people stay in the neighborhoods where we know and we all agree that we can help more people for the money we spend. So it is clear that those who are here as migrants and have refugee status must go home. But there are also people from the Middle East who have come as a family couple to Danish citizens, and there we think it is quite fair to say: If you come as a foreign citizen and are in Denmark, you must support yourself, and if you cannot, you must go out; you must not be on public support in Denmark as a foreigner, no matter where you come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200120	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200136	Thank you, sir. President. After all, we have tabled this motion for a resolution for a number of reasons. We think it is a pity that the Social Democratic Party is going to vote for both magical asylum seekers down to a camp in North Africa. This has been a little difficult for people, but then you want those who have come to Denmark to enter the labour market as soon as possible. The priority then given to the government is that the first thing you do after you have been given government power is to raise the benefits of certain groups of refugees, and the next thing you do is to make it easier to stay in Denmark if it is the case that you have a job, even if you come from a country at war, and there is peace in your country of origin. And even now, a year and a half later, we are still not ready to put forward the bill, which we would say was one of the first things to put forward, precisely on how to get people from passive support and into the labour market. Now we put this forward at a time when the government had not made a bill at all. I do not know if that is what has helped speed up the government's bill. But at any rate we are glad that it is now at last on the way, but we are so sorry about that priority. I do not want to know what it has cost Danish society that the government has waited so long to get to work on such an important area. I would like to say that I am sorry about the support parties that are using, I would say some of the most strange excuses I have long heard, not to support a bill that they are likely to work with the government when it is the case that the government itself that it is against international obligations to get people from passive support into the labour market is, if only very, very creatively thought or that it should be an expense, as Radicals say, to get people from passive support into the labour market, is simply Christiansborg at the worst. Because it is a proposal that comes from Conservatives, one will not vote in favour, and I will almost eat my old hat on the fact that when the government comes up with the proposal that we are putting forward here, then the very same parties will say: what an exciting proposal; we look forward to working on that. But because it's Conservative, you don't like it. The reason for the rejection of this by the Danish People's Party and the Citizens' Party, I think, is a little crooked, because we in no way say that this proposal calls for one to stay in Denmark when it is the case that there is peace in one's home country. We are just saying that while you are here, you have to contribute, and we think that is quite reasonable. To the Left and the many other parties supporting this motion for a resolution, I would like to thank you for your support. We really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200421	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200424	Thank you. Is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that foreigners living in Denmark should be able to live on passive support?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200436	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200439	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200441	But then I simply do not understand why the idea of social democracy is adopted. So, I understand that there is some teasing about this, compared to the fact that the Social Democratic Party has promised that foreigners in Denmark should support themselves and that they have not gotten their finger out. But I just don't understand, and that's probably some of the things that both New Citizens and DF are critical of adopting the idea that, because we provide them with public services, they are demanding that they also have to do something. Why not just say, "Don't have that service if you don't order anything; come out and get a job, because there's plenty to do; come out and get a job, and we'll close the public box?"
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200520	Well, we think the first sensible step is to secure people who come here. We also have some duty to help people into the labour market. But what we see is a reality where huge groups just sit parked at home in front of television and absolutely nothing does. And that is why I am glad that the Minister is now saying that this is a major priority, that we want to put a lot of resources into it and that it fills across various ministries. I just think it's been way too slow.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200545	It's Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200548	Thank you. I'll start by making it clear to Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, that in the Enhedslisten we are not the support party to the government, but the parliamentary basis of that is for us two very different things. I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth, has he taken the trouble to ask the social partners what they think of this proposal? For regardless of whether it comes from the government or the Conservative People's Party, it is the social partners who have to implement it. That is why I find it interesting to hear what kind of dialogue Mr. Marcus Knuth and his party have had with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200620	I regret that I assumed the Enhedslisten to be a support party. A supporting party is, of course, someone who is holding hands under a government that has committed huge violations of law without even wanting to realize it. Of course, a party that is merely a parliamentary basis would never do so. As far as the social partners are concerned, this is a proposal which actually comes from the Social Democratic Party itself. We agree on this; it was also one of the things we were working on when we were in government. We're just sad that you've been smokin' and putting it in the bottom of the pile instead of putting it at the top of the pile.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200653	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200654	What has been done in the government after all is to set up a service commission to look at some of these things and see how it can be done. I understand that you can get a little impatient, we are also in the Enhedslisten, but I still think that when you want to speed up the process, you could use some gunpowder to look at how you could implement such a proposal here. I also think that the proposal needs to take a position on how to ensure that these people, who cannot speak Danish, learn to speak Danish. Then I will let the other one fly, because I was not in a government where there was a minister who did something illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200732	So, in my view, the Service Commission is just one big solution to the fact that we do not want a political attitude as to whether or not the benefits of integration should be up or down. It is just the Social Democratic Party that does this. At least we took a decision: benefits must be reduced, more people have to enter the labour market. In addition, I just insist that this is the government's own proposal, which they have simply put in the bottom of the pile.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200759	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200802	Thank you. However, refugees must not enter the labour market, refugees must be prepared to return home as soon as possible. That's what you have to do. That was one thing. The second thing I can't help mentioning is that it asked Mrs. Rosa Lund himself to do so; I actually got the idea myself when Mr. Marcus Knuth said that with the support party and parliamentary basis; it's a little obvious right now. Well, this is a completely different debate. Then I just want to say something to mr. Marcus Knuth in relation to the fact that you will not vote in favour of the Conservative People's Party's motion. Now the Danish People's Party does not support the proposal; that is not it; it is more of a debate in principle; it may be that we have to raise it on another occasion. It is simply not done when it is a motion for a resolution, although one could actually agree. It has annoyed me for quite a number of years. This is a completely different debate, but I just think I would say that it is not just because it is the Conservatives, it is just because it is a resolution with which the government can agree and which Mr. Marcus Knuth says, maybe it's a little faster for the government to come up with the bill itself. But it's just not quite okay, it's kind of a shame. I mean, whoever's honored should be honored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200901	Well, I hope this is something that has helped speed it up. As I have said several times, it costs the Danish state huge sums of money every day that people do not enter the labour market. We agree with the Danish People's Party very far along the way on immigration policy, but we therefore believe that refugees, like the Danish People's Party, should go home as soon as possible, but we believe that the best way to prepare them to be able to help build up their homeland and be qualified when they come home, so they are also contributing in the labour market while they are in Denmark. This is perhaps one of the small differences between us and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200936	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119200941	Thank you. I think it is really, really a pity that the rapporteur, I think, deliberately misunderstood my words. I wasn't talking about this being against international conventions. I just said that all the legal stuff should simply be in place. And then the rapporteur quite conveniently ignored the other things I mentioned, namely that it is important for the trade union movement, the social partners and the companies to be involved if this is to succeed. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201022	Yes, but we still think it can do that in this motion for a resolution. We just think it's a little political, there's a lot of people using the word christiansborgfnidder, I don't like that word, but now I'm using it anyway. After all, you choose not to support this because it comes from Conservatives, but when you have tampered with the conservative wrapping of it and it is a social democratic proposal, I would be surprised if the SF did not want to enter into dialogue with the government about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201050	Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201052	I believe that the SF was more opposed to the process, that the process was not worked through, that the necessary contact and involvement of the trade union movement and the social partners has not been achieved, and what we expect from the social democracy is precisely that this has been done. What does the rapporteur say about this, in other words that it is important for companies to be involved? And like Mrs Lund's question, I would like to ask: has the social partners been consulted before this resolution was tabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201129	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201129-2	But it is precisely the process for which we criticise the government first and foremost, that is to say that this has been put in the bottom of the pile instead of at the top. And now, after all, this is a resolution and not a legislative proposal, which is why it has not been consulted, which is why it has not been sent out to all sorts of people. That is what will come as the next natural step, and that is why it lies here as it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201149	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201207	The debate is open. Sir. Anders Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201226	Thank you for the floor. The proposal for a law we are considering here, namely L 58, has the overall aim of amending the provisions of the organic law so that they are adapted to the future organic regulation. In addition, the proposal contains amendments which it is considered appropriate to implement when the law is nevertheless amended. In concrete terms, it is proposed to amend the provision on the Ecological Food Council, to tighten up the level of fines for certain breaches of ecological rules and to adapt the law's provision on fees linguistically. Finally, the draft law proposes a new provision on the interconnection of information from other authorities in contact with the ecology industry. The homepage is expected to be used to obtain information from other authorities in order to improve the risk assessment so that it can support the planning and implementation of physical and administrative checks. We all think this is very sensible, we have to say. Nor does the draft law change the provisions of the Organic Law on organic mass caterers and the eco-control mark, which we also know as the Ø label. It is of course important that there is always confidence in the ecology and in the Ø label. As we know that the fines have not been changed in the last 16 years, we also find it appropriate to have a more up-to-date level of fines. In addition, of course, we must also take seriously the fact that the National Audit Office has been involved. It has been asked to assess whether the sanctions were effective, reasonable and dissuasive enough. Now that I have the floor, I also think it is worth highlighting that the European Commission presented their land for the table strategy and the biodiversity strategy in the spring. This shows that the Commission's objective in the area of ecology is at least 25%. of EU agricultural land in 2030. That is a very good objective, and I think we can take pleasure in that in the Chamber. Fortunately, Denmark is very good when we talk organically; we are well advanced. And it is also clear from the government's understanding paper that the goal is to double the consumption of ecology by the Danes by 2030. With these words, I can say that we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. And I also have a special greeting from the Radical Left rapporteur, Zenia Stampe, who has asked me to inform Parliament's parties and the Minister that the Radical Left can also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201534	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201536	I am pleased that the rapporteur highlighted the objective of the European Union. It's a 25-percent target. When you look at what we have in government understanding, it is a doubling of the ecological area in Denmark we go from 10%. 20 per cent. Then it's just how we get to it. When I look at the matter here, there is, of course, a recommendation that the Ecological Food Council be closed down or downgraded, and then it is a little open as to what happens next. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether any thought has been given to what is to be done instead of what is to be done, because there are some of the consultation answers which, like those which suggest, maybe some committees should be set up in specific areas. I think that is really common sense when we have an objective in government understanding that we must double the eco area, we must double exports, we must double the domestic market. It could be different advice we need on the three issues. Can the rapporteur see any reason for us to set up a number of different types of organic advice to advise us so that we reach the target by 2030 or move forward, that is to say, up to EU level?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201640	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur for that question. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen and I have had a dialogue on ecology several times. I fully recognise that Enhedslisten really gives priority to the ecological issue and, of course, has also helped to put it in an understanding paper. I also recognise that we need to achieve the targets by 2030, it is clear that we need to discuss with each other and together the economic framework in terms of achieving ecology. I have also read some of the objections or good advice, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, whether you like it or not, and I would at least like to say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that I would be very willing to have a constructive and good and proper dialogue in connection with a future committee dealing with this proposal, in which we can try to examine some of the nuances of the proposal. On the whole, however, I think that we have a fine proposal here that improves ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201742	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201744	After all, these are targeted committees which have been included in some of the consultation responses, and I can easily follow that. I also believe that there are some actors out there who have been involved in some processes so far and think that they have actually done some work and maybe are a little unhappy with the fact that you then drop a council without them clearly seeing what you want instead. I look forward to having those discussions on how we can strengthen good advice on how we politically prioritise ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201813	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201814	I'm just gonna sign off for Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen and I together with the Danish Parliament's other parties, especially, that is at least my opinion, in the red part of the Folketing, has a special focus on the organic part. So from here a receipt that we continue our good, constructive discussions to promote both the conditions, but also the incentives to make more ecology in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201840	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119201850	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to the new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. You might almost say: Welcome home from the great world. When the Minister has been travelling, we have heard from many that the value of having many quality food to sell is often emphasized. So we hope that the Minister will remember to join us in his future work. The legislative proposal we are discussing here aims to bring Danish legislation into line with the EU Ecology Regulation, and we in the Left, of course, support this, because we are in favour of common rules in this area, so that there is transparency for both consumers and producers, and so that we are more competitive on it, we can say, the same legal basis. In addition, it deals with EU law, and then the legislative proposal also means that in future controls will be more risk-based. This is something we have been working on in this area over recent years, so it is good that it is also being taken in here. It is a sensible way to go, as we have seen elsewhere. And we have targeted control to where the problems are, so that it becomes more focused. Finally, there is also a tightening in relation to the amount of fines imposed on those who cannot find out, if you have to say it mildly, or to those who might cheat. So that's good, too. It is important that, as a consumer and in our export markets, we can be confident that the products described as organic also meet the specific requirements in this area. So on that basis, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202031	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202034	Thank you very much, and thank you for the fine words. Sir. Erling Bonnesen and I have also had dialogue on ecology in the past. When Mr. Erling Bonnesen's party a few years ago sat on government, I may not think that the ecological ambitions were so great. But now I know that sir... Erling Bonnesen is an entrepreneurial gentleman who can also see the future in some professions, so I just want to hear, because I do not think it has been quite clear in the debate on ecology, whether the Left can share, that there should be an ambition to ensure a doubling of both the ecological area and the export and in relation to the consumption of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202115	But we in the Left feel that it is the consumers who are sovereign to decide what to do on the plate, and if consumers, for example, are to do so. If you want more ecology, that's fine. And then I can also repeat that it was actually in the Blue Government that we got the lines precisely in relation to a doubling of those areas. I am pleased that the Social Democrats are, in this way, continuing the line we have taken in blue camp, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202139	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202145	I mean, self-esteem is always good, but it doesn't last all the way. For what the previous government also laid the foundations for was that support for the development of ecology, for example. for innovation and export promotion, which has been at a level of approx. 30 million kr. in the Finance Act, they cut down to 20 million. kr., and then it was planned to be cut to 10 million. kr. and then down to 0 kroner. And that is what we are dealing with right now in the draft budget, which is that the government has included in its draft budget. So it is quite true that the Left has left some clues, and that is among other things. cuts in what was supposed to develop ecology. It is okay to have a goal to double the ecology, but it does not always come by itself. There are some consumers who are very good at strengthening it, but if you have to make that export promotion, it sometimes requires something extra. Does the rapporteur not see that the Left has been involved in a reduction path?
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202243	No, I cannot actually do that, but I understand that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is trying to find this way, you have to say the holes in the cheese, or whatever it is you are looking for. I can well remember that our former food ministers actually helped to increase the efforts, the money, the investments that were made financially in the field of ecology in order to remove it. Then it is correct that exactly in the area of marketing etc. Some plans were put in place so far. Then it was the red camp that won the election last time, and if we had still been sitting away, we would of course have continued the plans we were working on, but I can hear that finding out about it causes great problems for red camp. But it is red camp that sits on the majority, and I hope that Enhedslisten can ensure that the plans we had put in the lake can also continue. Otherwise, you have to ask for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202338	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202338-2	Well, that's all wrong. Well, it's just looking back in some numbers in some finance laws you can find these numbers; we don't have to argue about that at all. It is, of course, merely the fact that a cut was made which we have not yet set up, and of course we are taking it to the financial law negotiations, and we have a requirement that it should be up to 30 million. kr. Again, plus that there needs to be something extra for innovation and there needs to be something extra for the public kitchens. So we are fully aware that ecology must be given priority in the Finance Act, but it then happens in a different room than this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202405	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202406	But together I can also see that we do not even have to look up; it can only be remembered that more money was given priority, including for the ecological area, in the time of the Blue Government. We do not have to argue about that, because that is precisely the facts. And those plans go as long as they do, and it is clear that there are some things that need to be carried forward and prioritised, and it is quite true that there are some things that need to be put right and continued. The red camp has also said that it will be done, and it is now that red camp will have to make its next financial law, and I will of course keep an eye on the fact that the ambitions will continue, as has also been promised in the election campaign not long ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202449	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Erling Bonnesen. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202454	Thank you, President. I would also like to congratulate the Minister, who comes from my home area. It's nice to have a North Jyde, and we know each other from other contexts, so it's really good. We're counting on it to be, sir. Minister. Well, this bill is then a proposal that contains a few changes and some adjustments to existing legislation. The proposal has been consulted by a great many, and few have commented on it. The purpose of the draft law is, among other things, to: adapting Danish organic legislation to EU legislation, and it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are not cheerfully enthusiastic about the EU, but now Denmark is part of the EU, and then it is appropriate to adapt the organic law. In addition, a substantial increase in the level of fines is proposed for infringements of certain rules on organic production which organic operators are obliged to comply with. There have been no significant changes in the level of fines in the last 16 years, as the Danish National Audit Office pointed out when they examined the organic control in the Danish Agricultural Authority in the autumn of 2019. In addition, the Ministry notes that there is a point in the October 2017 control strategy that only significant infringements are sanctioned. Another point is the collection and coordination of data from other authorities to support the improvement of risk-based controls in the planning and implementation of annual controls, and it is of course a good idea to get some data together. The provision of the Organic Law on the Organic Food Council is changed from its present form to a general legal basis for the Minister to set up advisory committees to monitor developments in the organic sector and advise the Minister. All I'd like to say is the hearing from the Danish Christmas Trees. They point out that there are unnecessary Danish special rules for organic Christmas trees, which distort competition with other EU countries, and we should look at that. So with the few comments, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202716	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. Then it is Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202724	Thank you. Our rapporteur on this could not be here today, so I have promised to read his speech. SF supports the bill. This is an implementation of EU regulations in this area. This will result in the organic law in Denmark being in line with the rest of the EU, as well as more risk-based controls. We take a positive view of this. However, we hope that the Minister will shortly be able to inform us, during the further discussion of the draft law, which committee is being considered to supplement the Ecological Food Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202803	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119202819	Welcome to the new Minister for Agriculture. I was thinking that I have only been sitting in the Folketing for five years, and I have already experienced five agricultural ministers, and so I have not overturned them all. So it was also the voters who overthrew one of them. I hope that we will have good cooperation. This is such a relatively small bill, and we are in favour of tightening up the rules in relation to cheating on ecology. The central point is, of course, what advice we need, and there it is that the Ecological Food Council is about to be phased out. If you look at the understanding of the government, it says very precisely: raise the goals of ecology and strengthen efforts against food waste. A new government will raise the ambitions for more ecology in Denmark as a starting point with the goal of doubling the ecological area, the export of ecology and the consumption of ecology by Danes by 2030. So there are three specific targets that need to be doubled up to 2030. And we were actually in the process of that. On Mogens Jensen's annual wheel it was in August, because there we should have done some kind of ecological debate and the country something. We didn't make it. Then an annual wheel was revised, and then you could say that the annual wheel flattened. Now we are standing where we need to pump the wheel again and come to land some sort of agreement. We look forward to that very much. In the Enhedslisten, we are fighting to ensure that we also get a good deal of the way in the financial law negotiations, but it is not certain that it will do so alone. That is where I think we should use today's legislative proposal to move forward. I do not want to go to the Minister with all sorts of old documents, but I would like to point out that the Social Democratic Party has indeed dealt with ecology in an exercise back before the election campaign, so it has thus been part of its ecological initiative and makes it clear that there must be new investments in ecological innovation, export, research and market development, and the party will build on Denmark's success with ecology and climate change in public kitchens. The social democracy itself has, of course, formulated something quite parallel to what we have in the understanding of the government and the intentions we have in the Enhedslisten. So I look forward very much to implementing it. And if you look at this bill, there are a number of consultation answers that relate to the advice that is now being withdrawn and where, for example, there are. is a statement, namely in a consultation answer, in which the Danish Organic Association supports the fact that it is more appropriate to set up targeted committees to advise the Minister on ecology. It can be said that this is quite right, because if we are to double the ecological area, it may well be that we need to involve some experts other than those who are to help us double the export of organic products. I think it is actually natural for us to change the advice that exists. Perhaps it was natural that we had a structure where there were both some who could advise on land development; another team that could advise on exports; and another team that could relate to how we double it on the domestic market. I look forward to moving forward with the work on ecology. There are some things which have been somewhat delayed lately, because the mink has taken all the attention and probably also some of the forces of some employees, but I look forward to us having these ecological discussions resumed, and that can well be done on the basis of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119203159	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. No one has signed up to a brief remark. The next vivid picture is Mr. Knox. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119203212	Thank you for that, President, and congratulations to the Minister for the new tasks. I am sure that we will have excellent cooperation on food, agriculture and fisheries. So I look forward to it. Now, it is really important that confidence in organically produced foods is intact, so that consumers get what they want. That is why it is also important to have as similar rules across national borders as possible, and, of course, the approximation to the EU regulation is quite obvious. The proposal envisages changes to the scope for control, including: by the interconnection of the registers. Of course, it is also obvious to take home the rationalization that a new technology brings, but we must of course also pay attention to the maintenance of legal certainty in the interconnection of registers. The draft law lays down a great deal more stringent penalties, which we in the Conservative People's Party are somewhat sceptical about. As such, there is no indication that the current fines are not sufficient. Of course, there may be some who take a different view of it. But we also think it is important to distinguish between minor errors and sloppyness and something that can be regarded as outright fraud and deliberate circumvention of the rules. That, of course, is something you have to crack down on. But we would like to discuss this in committee. It also makes very good sense that the Ministry has the opportunity to draw on a wider range of advisors than the one that is the case with the Organic Food Council. However, as I said, we support the proposal. And I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens and say that so do they. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119203401	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. In this way, we have actually reached the new Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, whom I would also like to congratulate here in the Chair on the new tasks, and good luck with that. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119203421	First of all, many thanks to the President and thanks to the rapporteurs for their warm welcome. I am very pleased, but also humble, with the task I face as a new Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, but I am very pleased with the kind reception that is being given in this Chamber today. I am sure we will have a very good and constructive cooperation. It is this year that we celebrate the 30th anniversary of our red island brand, the eco-label. It's a big success story. The Danish eco-label is as well-known among consumers in Denmark as one of the world's strongest brands Coca-Cola. That is truly impressive. First of all, we link the E-mark with credibility and trust in the organic product. This confidence is also reflected in the fact that consumers in Denmark are world champions in the purchase of organic products. During the covid-19 pandemic, consumers' demand for ecology has increased. Ecological National Association estimates, for example, that sales of organic food to private individuals increased by as much as 20%. during the decommissioning in spring. I think it is extremely positive that the Danes' confidence in the Ø label is at the top. It is absolutely essential that we safeguard this trust. The ecology industry today consists of more than 4 000 organic farmers, who ensure that, for example, there are can be covered up to a clean eco-morning table with everything, from bread, eggs and dairy products to fruit and vegetables. In addition, there are also the many jobs in retail shops as well as the over 2,400 food companies that are being ecologically controlled today. In recent years, many farmers have converted to ecology and the ecological area has grown considerably. Exports of Danish organic products have also been in great growth and continue to enjoy great potential, especially in Europe, where demand is increasing. As a new minister in this area, I very much appreciate this, as it also runs away with the Government's desire to double the ecological area, exports and Danes' consumption. It is important that we safeguard confidence in Danish ecology. When there are many new organic farmers and food producers, it is very important to ensure that the rules for organic production and sales of products are complied with. Violations can undermine the credibility of organic farming and organic food and ultimately destroy the trust that ecology enjoys among all of us. We therefore need to continue to protect the brand that Danish ecology stands for. Our state control of organic production in Denmark with the Ø label as a symbol ensures that we in Denmark comply with the control requirements of the EU's common ecological rules. It is a great advantage that the rules are the same for all Member States, both for competition and for consumer confidence. After many years of negotiations, there will now be a new ecological regulation. This bill aims precisely to adapt the existing Danish organic law to the new organic regulation. The new organic law therefore repeals certain provisions which are now directly regulated by the regulation. This concerns, among other things: laying down rules on authorisation. The Ecology Regulation should actually apply from 1 January 2021, but on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council have just decided to postpone the date of application by 1 year, i.e. to 1 January 2022. The reason for this is that many of the so-called legislative acts setting out the degree of detail of the rules have been delayed, particularly because of the covid-19 situation. However, in order to be absolutely sure that Denmark had the legal basis in place as soon as the new ecology regulation was applied, we are considering today the proposed amendment to the organic law. In addition to the adaptation of the new regulations, the draft law contains changes which are deemed appropriate to implement when the law is amended anyway. The draft law provides for the respective control authorities in the field of ecology, i.e.: The Danish Agriculture Agency and the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority will have the opportunity to obtain and collate information from other authorities in contact with the organic industry. The information will be used for planning and implementing more risk-based controls than at present. In concrete terms, there may be medical information, lease agreements and infringements of animal welfare rules. It must ensure the best possible compliance with ecological rules. Following this, the new organic law will considerably increase the level of fines for breaches of certain provisions of the ecological rules. It must ensure compliance with ecological rules by making sanctions more effective, more proportionate and dissuasive. As the amount of the fines has not been regulated in the last 16 years, I think it is quite appropriate to have a more up-to-date level of fines. The Ecology Regulation is a voluntary scheme, but when you are in it you must also always be fully aware of the rules and the consequences in the event of an infringement. That is why consumers expect it to be important for the credibility of ecology. In addition, the new law provides the opportunity to revitalize the work carried out under the auspices of the Ecological Food Council. Experience with the Council has shown that greater flexibility is needed. The regulation of the ecology area is now so complex that in all situations the Organic Food Council is not the most appropriate forum to advise the Minister for Food at any time in relation to the further development of the ecology area. Instead, the Minister will have the opportunity to set up advisory committees to monitor developments in the ecology sector and to advise the Minister. Representatives of the entire value chain will be offered participation. Finally, the bill adapts the fee provisions of the law linguistically. The adjustment will not affect the fact that, as in the past, rules can be laid down for the collection of payments to cover, in whole or in part, the costs of, inter alia: control and administration. The government hopes that the Danish Parliament will support our proposal to amend the Organic Law. In these words, I look forward to a favourable committee reading and thank you for the debate and the good input that has been given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204202	Thank you to the Minister. There is one question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204208	Thank you. It was nice to have confirmed by the new minister that the government adheres to this ambition to double the ecology. I would therefore urge the Minister to go along with this if he meets someone who has an influence on these financial legislation negotiations, so that it is also there that we can help. Because when we look at where we have reached now in Denmark, it has therefore been of great importance that there has been a basic allocation of approx. 30 million kr. to a fairly broad field of export promotion and market development and to broadly develop ecology. It's not everything that comes on its own. It's not just the shopping basket down in the supermarket that makes you get a growth. That, for example. In fact, to bet on some promotions at trade fairs abroad, so that you can increase your exports, is essential. And there are some who need to organize that drive, so we need some funding. So I would very much like to call on the Minister to move on to some colleagues, in other words, that it takes a little money, that it does not come by itself when we have to double the ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204314	Thank you very much for Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten's commitment to ecology. It's nice to feel that this case is being burned. It's important. It is the case that it is clear social democratic policy to work for ecology, and we also stand by the things we have agreed on in the understanding paper with our supporting parties. So that's what we're gonna do. That is our task and that is our intention. That's what we're working for. It is a well-known fact that a proposal for a new agricultural policy has been under way for a more green farm and we should in principle have been negotiating it now. However, we have then been in a situation of covid-19 and other sanctions and the whole situation that has been in recent weeks, where I think many would feel a little uncomfortable if we started the negotiations now and that it would stumble on top of the other. So it's good to have plenty of time to do it properly, and we'll start on that in the new year. And then we get some good negotiations with high ecological ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204424	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204426	If I am going to make a call to the new minister on reading materials that can be passed on, I can mention that we have had such a system where public kitchens could receive support for the further training of their employees when they wanted to convert to ecology. It has been a huge success. In this way, relatively little money has been raised in some kitchens, and in other words, one has come extremely far for the same budget, i.e. when one had some employees who were trained to work with food waste, more ecology, seasonal raw materials, etc. So this is another point where there should be some money, that is to say for the training of employees. It could be that in this crisis situation you can find them in different ways. So that is another call to the Minister as to what can be worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204507	Well, again, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for constructive, useful suggestions that I will take on with me. I myself experience that out around Denmark there is a great curiosity about how to use your food more efficiently, how to avoid food waste, and how to work more organically. This is something that is very much on the agenda and people inspire each other, so there is definitely a potential there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204536	Then we would like to thank the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, as I think it is rightly called today. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20201119204556	Members of the Folketing Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) have announced that they want to take the query no. F 20 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly back. The question has now been dropped. Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 20 November, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
